ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10451	Gentlemen, we are continuing to work at the 6th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. In order to facilitate benching, you are given a purified agenda. Today's plenary session of the Parliament is being followed from the gallery by students of the Technical School from Kutina, so I welcome you very much. We are going to – Final proposal of the Media Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 87 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law. [[Applause.]] You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, European Integration, Information, Information and Media and Gender Equality. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture, Jadran Antolovic, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10452	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me say a few words about the proposed Media Act. As you know, the current Media Act was repealed by the Constitutional Court on 30 April, since it was not adopted by a qualified majority in accordance with Article 82. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the previous assembly of the Parliament. The proposed law regulates the following issues. First and foremost principles of media action, in particular freedom of the media, the obligations of the Republic of Croatia to promote pluralism and diversity of media, to ensure availability of public information and the right of citizens to protection of privacy. In addition to these basic principles, it also addresses the issues of rights and obligations of media publishers, in particular the right to information on the publisher and the media which are of interest to the public. It shall also establish the basic media principles and obligations as well as cases where the publisher is responsible for the damage caused by the publication of the information. The law lays down the position, rights and obligations of the editor-in-chief, the rights and obligations of journalists, and in particular the right to express their views, the right to refuse a work order, the protection of the reputation of the author and the protection of the source of information. Provisions are also laid down that bring about the public and transparency of media ownership and transparency in the business of the media. The provisions also oblige and restrict transactions in the pursuit of the distribution activity of printed media, the way in which the protection of competition in the field of media and important provisions are provisions on the exercise of the right to correction and the response of persons whose publication of certain information has violated any right or interest. The proposed law is governed in accordance with the European acquis, and the provisions of this legislative proposal are in line not only with European documents but also with the recommendations and declarations of the Council of Europe and with the recommendations of European experts. Let me now emphasise the differences or improvements, the most important improvements in the proposed law compared to the current Media Act. First, we have improved the definitions of public information, the definition of journalists and editor-in-chief. Here, with the name of the editor-in-chief, we have noted that in electronic media, this person is called the director of the program. The provisions on the obligations of the Republic of Croatia to promote pluralism and diversity of media include the obligation to encourage media aimed at informing people with special needs, and the amendment of the Government has also established a procedure to promote pluralism and diversity of media. In the procedure, in order to ensure the availability of public information, the provision of Article 6 has been complemented by the way that, according to a press complaint, jurisdiction has been transferred from the Administrative Court as it has been governed by the current Media Act to the Court of Justice and thus allows that, in addition to reviewing the proceedings, it is possible to review and justify the information, which means that if it is found that information is unlawfully denied that the court will be able to commit and ensure the availability of the information in question. The provisions on privacy protection have also been updated in a way that, as an exception to protection, the principle of privacy considers that there is no harm to the protection of privacy if the information is dominated by legitimate public interest. This amendment and the supplement is in line not only with the European acquis but also with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. Respecting press freedom, the press publisher is obliged to report the press to a register that will allow all citizens to have in one place the insight of the responsible person behind a particular media. This entry will be conducted in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in order to ensure the full independence of the media by, therefore, the influence of the executive, or possibly the competent ministry. The provisions of the liability of the damage rapporteur are clearer and here, with an objective deadline for the action prescribed by the mandatory legal subjective time limit until now, which has been proposed for six months, so three months from the date of the publication of the information, there is the possibility of filing an action. We consider an important addition in Article 26 where the provisions on the media statutes are governed. By respecting the numerous cases in which the State Inspectorate found it, the publishers avoided concluding contracts with the authors, i.e. the persons from whom the press contributions were ordered, we made a commitment to the preliminary conclusion of such a contract, so there was an agreement on the work, either an author's contract or any other contract, but in any case, that the legal business was previously contracted and that the publisher had an obligation to keep records of such contracts. This will enable, in practice, the termination of the engagement of persons in black and of course, those persons will then be paid and all mandatory duties that the publisher has avoided in this way will be paid. In particular, the provisions on the transparency of ownership have been improved, and this allows me to set out the obligation of the publishers to provide information on the owners of shares and shares as well as information on whether these same persons are members of the administration, supervisory boards or boards of directors in other media. Also prescribed is a deadline within which publishers are obliged to publish ownership structure data in "The People's Newspaper", the deadline is February 28th every calendar year. As regards the post-transparency of business, which is also extremely important, it is prescribed that by 20 April of each calendar year, publishers should publish in their media the data achieved in the total income, the average report reached, i.e. listeningness and ratings. Publishers are also obliged to provide data on the income obtained on the market of readers, viewers, or listeners, as well as revenues generated on the advertising market. This provides insight into both markets, therefore, and commercially related to advertising and the media market itself. As regards the provisions on the protection of competition, allow me to highlight one significant difference from the current law. The law so far refers to the application of the provisions of the Competition Act but does not respect Article 22 of that specific law which prescribes thresholds above which even the concentration will be reviewed by the Agency. Those thresholds are, that threshold, those real ones are extremely high, so it's about concentrations above a billion kuna. Which means that if we had the current state of the Media Act, that in fact almost no concentration would be questioned. For this very reason, we have nominated the provisions on competition and directed the truth again to the provisions of the Competition Protection Act but, with the exception of the threshold laid down in Article 22. The law on competition and the obligation of publishers to declare any intended concentration to the Agency for Protection against Competition. This means that, in the future, the Agency will review any future concentration without exception and will fully apply the Competition Act except for that Article 22. With regard to Article 37 of the proposed Law on which there has been a lot of debate, let me say that here we have accepted a solution that sets out as an illicit concentration of entrepreneurs on the market of general information journals, i.e. on the market of general information weekly, which would make the market share of participants a concrete concentration of entrepreneurs on the market, following its implementation, moreover 40% of the total sales fee of the general information journal, i.e. weekly in the Republic of Croatia. So here it is, this is about the concentration that would occur after the two entrepreneurs are joined and the relevant market is determined, the market of the Republic of Croatia. Which means that on a less relevant market, this concentration wouldn't be illegal. And let me finally say that the provisions on the exercise of the right to correction and answer have been significantly improved and we have more clearly established the rights of the person to correct and respond. I would also single out in particular one situation which has simply been wrongly prescribed in the laws so far, and these are cases where persons are mentioned for the purposes of the criminal application or the initiation of the investigation procedure. So far, the Media Act has said that after these proceedings have been suspended, they have the right to correct what is incorrect, namely they have the right to publish information that such a procedure has been suspended or otherwise interrupted. This information, therefore, shall be entitled to this information by any person mentioned in that media in respect of that criminal application or the initiation of an investigation procedure, and this information shall be published in the manner prescribed for the correction. Here's so much for the introduction, according to one debate that was held on a number of committees, which, I expect your contributions and suggestions to improve the text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10453	Thank you. Committee rapporteurs, Legislative Committee, Committee Chairman, Florian Boras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10454	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. At the 10th session held on 7 April 2004, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the proposal for a Media Law with the Final Bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 15 April. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this Act and does not object to an urgent procedure. However, at the proposed Final Proposal, the Committee established and submitted 17 amendments. I'm not going to read the amendments, I hope you've all got a report on the bench, you can see, they're mostly nomotechnical, or they're being arranged to express certain provisions. In addition, we have made consistent comments and suggestions on the proposed text, which we also submit in our report on three, four pages here. Most of these remarks, as well as the amendments, are in line with the applicant. As far as the amendments are concerned, I think they're all acceptable because, as I said, they're mostly nomotechnical. And as for these other objections, we leave it to the Proposer to consider them even if the evaluations justified to include them in the amended text of the law with its amendments. Here, Mr. President, that would be the report of the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10455	Thank you very much. The Committee on European Integration. The committee reporter doesn't want to. The Committee for Information, Information and Media, President-in-Office of Honored Representative Željka Antunović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10456	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Information, Information and Media at its 3rd session discussed the proposal for a Media Law with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 15 April 2004. This Committee considered the bill as a parent body. In the opening statement, the proposer introduced the members of the Committee to the new provisions that are proposed in relation to the applicable law but also referred to the amania governments that arrived just before the meeting itself. In the discussion, the Committee members pointed out that some provisions are too high, such as the definition of damages regulated by the Law on Mandatory Relations. The amendments set out in Articles 12, 13 and 14 have been rejected by a provision on the programming basis of the media which forms an integral part of the employment contract between the publishers and editors under the original draft of the law and between publishers and journalists and, in the opinion of some members of the Committee, it still needs to remain. Some of the Committee’s members also feel that the provisions in Articles 36 and 37 aimed at protecting pluralism in the media area could lead to harmful restrictions on entrepreneurship, so they believe that the old solution is better. However, there was also the opposite opinion that those concentration provisions would not limit entrepreneurship. Committee members, Mr Nenad Stazic and Željka Antunović in accordance with Article 51. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have asked for a separate opinion asking for the final proposal to return the programme basis provision because it is in the function of protecting journalists and the provision of a valid law relating to the concentration of entrepreneurship because they consider the proposed solution to be a threat and a significant entrepreneurial initiative. As regards the amendments to the Government in which, instead of the Ministry of Culture, the responsibility for the registration of the press and the keeping of the registers would be assumed by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the members of the Committee are of the opinion that this is not the right solution because the chamber has the character of the Czech association, and that job should be carried out by the body of the state administration, the Ministry or perhaps by a special agency. In addition, attention shall be paid to the protection of the source of information where, in Article 30, paragraph 6 of the Court of Justice may be given to a journalist to provide information on the source of the published information or information which he intends to publish if necessary in order to protect public interest. It has been pointed out that such a solution is not good because a journalist should protect the source of information. In the debate, the participants highlighted the following opinions, proposals and remarks, which we hold to be considered by the applicant. Article 2 also defines what the media is not, which is not common, and the definition of journalists does not indicate that it is also the person who forms the information. In Article 16, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: In Article 19, paragraph 2 behind the wording of the declaration should add the words: in the place of impact. In Article 20, paragraph 7 behind alcoholic beverages should also be added to pornography. In Article 26(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, shall apply. In view of the scope of the observations, the Committee members decided to submit the amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law individually. Finally, it was pointed out that this bill is a major step in its content and the way it was prepared. It has been discussed for a long time, almost a year and a half, and will achieve the basic role of media in democratic society, which is pluralism and diversity of media. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament by a majority of votes; 6 votes for and 2 abstentions. Namely, the adoption of the Media Act is supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10457	Thank you. The Committee on Gender Equality. Dear representative, President of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10458	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Government's Committee on Gender Equality held at its 6th session on 27 April and discussed the proposal for a Media Law with the Final Bill as an interested working body. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that that proposal for a Media Act is in line with the final proposal for a law on legal property of the European Union and with the legal acts of the Council of Europe. The Committee specifically referred to those parts of the laws that should be in line with national policy to promote gender equality with the programme for the implementation of national gender equality policy in the Republic of Croatia and the Law on Gender Equality. The Law on Gender Equality in Article 36 provides for the obligation to comply with all laws and regulations with the provisions of this Act within one year of the date of entry into force of the Law. The importance of the media is crucial in raising the level of awareness of gender equality as well as in promoting gender equality, opinions are members and members of the Committee. In the discussion, the members and members of the Committee submitted their proposals and comments on Article 3. In view of the fact that this article guarantees freedom of expression and freedom of the media as the exercise of fundamental constitutional rights, it is proposed to supplement the provision of paragraphs 2, Article 3 and gender equality. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia also cites gender equality as one of the highest constitutional values in Article 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The proposal for a law is considered to extend the provision to the role of the media, to respect the various sexual commitment, with full equal respect for both genders and to Article 39, which provides for the prohibition of public exposure and advertising of presses with the cover of pornographic content. The comments were that it did not cover advertising in all the media. For example, radio and television programs, electronic publications, teletext and others. Members and members of the Committee consider that regardless of the laws governing this area, which are the Law on Electronic Media and the Law on Croatian Television, it is necessary to find a way to explicitly prescribe in this Act a ban on publishing contributions to pornographic content. After the debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Media Act, but there are several amendments. The first amendment concerns Article 5. It is proposed that Article 5(2), subparagraph 5, reads: “The exercise of human rights of citizens and the establishment of a legal and social state and the promotion of awareness of women and men’s equality.” The Law on Gender Equality protects and promotes gender equality as the fundamental value of constitutional order, and in Chapter 7 under the special name “media” of the above mentioned Law in Article 16 provides the obligation for media to promote the development of awareness of women and men’s equality through programming concepts. The second amendment is proposed on Article 16 to place a decimal behind the words of the family and to add words regardless of gender and sexual commitment. In addition to the applicable special laws which are exclusively intended to prevent gender discrimination, namely the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Protection against Family Violence and the Law on Same-Sex Communities, and the amendments to the Labour Act are also prohibited discrimination directly and indirectly both on the basis of gender and sexual commitment of the marital situation and on the other. In the end, the third amendment refers to Article 20. For example, in Article 20, paragraph 7 behind the word tobacco products, we suggest adding the words “and information with pornographic content”. We believe that the proposed supplement protects the dignity of every man and thus shows that pornographic content is hidden in various types of advertising messages, especially about electronic media, which are particularly accessible to adolescents and children. Also in the context of this amendment in the same article, therefore the 20th paragraph of the 7th surrender, we propose to add a new item 8 which reads: “Advertising is not allowed in which women and men appear and represent themselves in an offensive, disdaining or humiliating way in view of gender and sexual commitment.” Article 16(2) is replaced by the following: The Law on Gender Equality states that public representation and representation of women and men are prohibited in a humiliating or demeaning way in view of sexual orientation or gender. It is the media's duty to respect the dignity, reputation and honor of citizens, even though the ad is paid notice to improve the transport of products by advertisers in their advertising messages must also take care of the tolerance of content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10459	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. President, the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10460	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 5th session of 27 April a proposal for a press law with a final draft of the law. The debate lasted about 2 hours, but we are determined to list only the amendments in this report because they reflect both the spirit of the debate and the importance of what this Committee wanted to propose to the Government and this Parliament. All these amendments have been voted on by a large majority of votes so that we hope that they will be adopted by this Parliament and that the government will support them. The first amendment in Article 2 paragraph 16 behind the word "determination" instead of the comma put the point and the rest of the texate deleted. It's about the definition of privacy that's a lot wider around here and in some parts and a lot more unique. According to the proposed law, the primacy understands personal and family life and, above all, the right to live by its own choice and definition. And that would be the proposal of this committee to keep that part. Because privatets continue to define that privacy implies both physical and moral integrity and dignity honor and reputation as valuable categories, which first enter both the private and the public part, the lives of each individual as a second do not have to enter into either one but ssu as to what I would say, values that an individual accepts or does not accept except of course physical integrity. So this second one is actually an ideological commitment, and it's proposed that it turns out to be avatar and that it stays just to word by choice and definition. Because it's a much cleaner definition. The second amendment in paragraph 3 of Article 3(4) in the second verse behind the word inequality, add words or imbalances to the basis of sexual orientation. And in the fourth verse behind words, insufferableness, add words, enmity or intolerance to the basis of sexual orientation. The Committee has not voted anything new here, but it is something that is written, but in the Law on Gender Equality, which actually states that all laws introduce a category of sexual orientation. Because it's something that's common in the world in the Western world today in a democratic world. And it's also one of the fundamental freedoms of the individuals. And this amendment has, of course, been adopted. The third amendment in Article 24(1), in the second sentence, to obtain the rest of the text to delete and replace the words, "a positive opinion namely 50% of the members of the editorial office". This is where the category of compliance is introduced by the editor-in-chief, the election of the editor-in-chief. It is proposed that at least half of the editorial board agree that the editor proposed by the owner of the list to become the editor-in-chief. It is democratic and it exists in many countries, of course, it can be regulated by the statute itself, but if the law requires it then the statutes must regulate and it is certainly democratic. The democratic way of choosing the editor-in-chief of the newspaper. That's the media. Finally, Article 30 is amended and reads as follows: "The journalist is not obliged to give the public authority information on the source of the published information or information he intends to publish". The right of journalists in the articles of this article also applies to editors, printers, authors of books, and authors of published contributions that are not journalists. It is, of course, the source and the fact that the journalist has the right to keep his source secret. The proposed amendment means that the new text represents the whole of the provision contained in the law on public communications. Article 12 of Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 is replaced by the following: This provision provided the protection of sources of information, which is a prerequisite for free investigative journalism. The provision of Article 30 of the final draft of the law, according to the assessment of the committee, is analyzing what has already been achieved in our journalism, as a result of the democratic development of the Croatian Society. As such, the provision should be replaced by the provisions of Article 12 so far. Public communications laws. The Committee, of course, eventually proposed to pass a media law with, of course, these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10461	I thank you for opening the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives IDS the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10462	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Your Honor, gentlemen, the MPs. We have before us a law passed by the former coalition. The accident of this law is that it was not adopted by qualified majority. What is the necessity when organic laws are based on it has already been adopted by a simple majority. And that was then sufficient reason for the Constitutional Court to express itself so, this law puts out of force. But what is now the point of the former opposition voting against this Law, at the time the position voted for this Law. And now the former opposition, when it is in power, offers us by quotes the text of the former government or former government. Far from the fact that there are few good solutions here in this legislative proposal. For example, such a good solution that points to thinking again is what es showed up after the EPH Group's offer to buy Free Dalmatia where the law says that because of fear of concentration, it will not allow individual owners to share more than 40% of sold copies on the Croatian market. And now I should quote here Mrs. Alaburic, otherwise I should allow EPH's lawyer, as she says, a minimum of media pluralism. That's okay. But immediately outside the corner, he asks himself, citing examples of other European countries, where concentration is allowed, in those cases where one medium saves another, from bankruptcy. Now for me, it's this fundamental dilemma of this whole legal text. Is it better to let one medium shut down? I hope it doesn't happen with Free Dalmatia which is a note bene forming an opinion in the area of Dalmatia. Or through the form of concentration to save that newspaper. For me it means, a real legal, political, economic, social problem that simply cannot be marginalized. Let me take just one example of a small parallel from the Croatian National Bank which at one point led to the closure of the Istrian Bank in time did not want to allow the entry of the Ljubljanska banka into that bank by risking that the state must through the form of secured savings to the citizens of 800 million kuna, i.e. where citizens would have not been saved directly lost 700 million kuna, in jobs not to speak. Because behind that bank he was dragging a certain tail towards the Croatian savings. And he's pulling. That's kind of how I dare say it in this example. What perspective means, one week. To start working as a rehabilitated company. Either to wear or to continue to deal with all the problems business brings. This is, in my opinion, a serious dilemma which means the primary interest of the state, which here is a stronger interest, gives a concentration, in order to save and survive businesses, or simply the collapse of a society. If that's the way it is, and I'm saying why in Croatia there are other monopolies that exist under quotes. And so on we can ask ourselves a question. But in this part, I don't think logic plays. We are all clearly afraid of the concentration of media power, because at least in this House we will all agree that it is also a concentration of political power, and it is my impression that perhaps the government is interested in then intervened to help this paper, because at the same time a significant political influence is taking place. So as the media concentration is a huge problem, it can also be a huge problem of political domination, for example, by executive authority over some media, and that can lead to an even bigger problem. So this is where one monopoly can be substituted with another monopoly. Secondly, this Media Act, I believe, is not possible to track apart from the proposal of the Penal Code. In the future, as it stands for insults and slanders, only those journalists who do so will answer to harm one’s honor and reputation. Now who is he who will be able to prove his intention I don't know, but the decriminalization of these acts certainly should be supported. Why? So maybe we can save people from politics a little bit of money. But it's not the subject of this law right now, but it would be better to literally erase all crimes against honor and reputation. The question is in this law whether this law is more restrictive than the law we had in 1996. Why? That law allowed a journalist to protect the sources of information, and that is absolute protection, and this law comes from the fact that the court can also order the disclosure of a source of information to be made clear if the public's interest in disclosing information is greater than the interest in protecting someone's source of information. Now allow judicial discretion to judge from case to case which is of greater interest is very easy to realize that when the government is interested, the real authorities will then be allowed public disclosure of information, and when the interest is to say some opposition then the question is whether or not an informer will be revealed. So much for my opinion of independence... So my proposal is to keep everything the way it was when this institute came along, which means it was regulated in 1996 means about short information. If that's the case, especially if it's about this investigative and investigative court case. What else do you say? To social events, the formation of public change, etc. I think we'll all agree there's no one greater influence than our media, absolutely no one, and that's why we can't rule out under allegations of relatively high punishment if someone conveys some false information. We must primarily professionalise ourselves, but also other public professions. The media we all know has enormous power, they have if you want political power, and then they have every other power. Not everyone has to agree with me, but that's my opinion. The media can destroy you, it can clearly resurrect you, the media can quote us as being unwarranted not professional would never do it, but conducting and vice versa. Indeed, the media can become on the other hand a correction or a correction of society that can lead safely to one new quality. As far as the media concentration is concerned, which is the only real change, it is always applied to electronic media, which is again regulated by a special law, so it is done in the Republic of Croatia. In Croatia in general, this matter is extremely sensitive. Why? Well, at this point, according to some polls, maybe a dozen citizens are reading or buying newspapers. It means that 90% of citizens make their own court based on the views of electronic media. That is why, in my court, Croatia was not supposed to sell the third channel of Croatian broadcasting again because it is somehow sold and part of our sovereignty, even though the dispersion of television power can be positive in the long term. What I would like to ask and what I would like to get an answer from the secretary of state is how accurate information is that written media is not concerned with the concentration of media power in Western European countries where an example is given that in Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, Spain, Denmark, Finland, Portugal, Greece, Italy, Belgium, etc. There is no concentration in written media. So there is no concentration in the European Union. What I think should also, which should be taken care of, is to try to protect the regional diaries, too, which is also important. How to protect this regional concept, how to save regional journals from the concentration of large national newspapers that they cannot resist, how note bene means this regional reading. We regionalists believe that these kinds of publications deserve trust, more specifically the right to citizens because they speak in a specific way about themselves. Why would I bring that up? These small sheets simply cannot deal with "national competition" under quotes, their relationship to television will not waste words, and the next day the question is how they will deal with the quotes "Internet" journalism. And another little detail. What if the editor hurts information with a newspaper title? We all know what these headlines look like, we've all tried to express myself in that situation. You have one side of the claim at the end of the questionnaire. It's also clear that he's selling newspapers, selling that newspaper title. 90% I dare say people read the title, remember the title, and everything else might be marginal for them. However, the title remains conscious of everyone. He's one word of the story, he's full of information, he's a note bene selling the newspaper because in the text he's very careful not to insult or slander someone because he's subject to normal criminal sanctions. But the penalty of 50 thousand kuna if the text is changed is something we cannot find anywhere in the European Union that we seek. Perhaps this suggests that our journalism is not nearly similar to European journalism, but the whole law is in some way the protection of people who appear in politics, i.e. Public life. It liberalises access to information on the other hand, but not so much when the state is in the middle of it but when these lower units are below the state of intervention. What's also important, and I'm against any persecution or complaint of journalists, or political opposition, and I don't think that makes any sense. It would be in that I should, as I would say, be able to see the media of an interested person, first of all from public life, to provide all the information about himself that is, for example, self. That medium is willing to ask someone, say, in this public life. So what you, we, don't matter now, ready or we have to give them, we should also get that information from the media. This should be a fundamental principle, that there are no papal ones than the Pope because we are all clear people would say bloody under the skin, or we are just humans. Clearly, this is the final proposal. We can see from this law that there are a whole series of amendments, probably a series of them will be adopted. I believe that we will be principled at least by the one who voted once for this legislative proposal and I am glad that there are those who were against it now turning towards that legal solution. But they're joking aside. This may be one of those cases that shows that neither the government is always right, but that the opposition should not always oppose everything. We need first of all reality. It is missing in Croatia. All or too much is about political planting, who's going to coma and it's not perspective for this country. Therefore, I believe that principle, that when you were now in opposition, you were acting the same way when you were in power or vice versa. What should also be characterized by the adoption of such legal proposals, including this Media Proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10463	On behalf of the HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10464	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First, on behalf of the HSP club, the following things need to be noted, which is how strong and powerful the media is today in modern democratic states. We know that media can and form essentially public opinion, that public opinion is not formed by anyone but formed by the media in the way that they publish information. We have a lot of examples like this that negative examples out there, so they can turn into positive, and they can turn positive into negatives if some things are taken out of context. And that is why it is our view that it is very important in modern democratic societies to regulate the media in a way that enables professional media work, on the one hand. To keep the media objective, to truly inform the public, and on the other hand to protect the rights of all those if the media has made false and inaccuracies. As a result, the HSP club expected that after the Constitutional Court of Croatia's decision of 28 January this year with effect from 30 April 2004, the government would abolish the applicable Media Act, primarily for formal reasons, because of the organic law. So, no, she was an ordinary majority not qualified most of them. We expected many other things to be settled, and today's government strongly pointed out and criticised the bill that was passed, which the Constitutional Court abolished. And that's why we were uneasyly surprised when we made an insight into the old Law that was abolished and proposed a new law. In fact, it's more or less about the same law with an attempt, truth, we have to admit, three things are regulated the other way, and one of these things is to allow a lawsuit against journalists, so, against the authorities responsible for shorting information that we certainly welcome. Another important thing is that it imposes obligations on units of regional and local administrations and self-government, cities, municipalities and counties and their bodies, they are obliged to provide information when it is sought by journalists. And the third is the thing that's important for cutting deadlines for filing a damages claim. But being particularly unpleasantly surprised, we were surprised to see additional restrictions introduced in the proposal, the final draft of the law. We were particularly impressed by the fact, and we were the first to react and we were surprised that the journalists did not react, and we are glad that yesterday and the committees in the Croatian Parliament responded, which is that Article 30 aims to abolish the gains of contemporary democracy in Croatian journalism, which is that no source of information has to be disclosed. And I see everyone's up now. We told the press yesterday how you can keep your mouth shut, and you've got the main card out of your hands. If such provisions of Article 30 are passed in this form, you will have to, at the request of the court, reveal by means of a court order the source of your information, which means that you will no longer receive information of such a nature. And then we immediately worried that it was, and no one can tell us it wasn't, that it was about General Gotovina's case and the interview at the National. And we are opposed to the fact that in Croatia the regulations are being changed, that is to say, in a way that there is always some kind of case, whether it is now General Gotovina's case, the case of Chachia or some other cases. And we need to put aside our work and our legislative activities. And now we also have to say about the other objections we have, and that is the possibility that even during the court proceedings, the relevant authorities will not provide information about the cases being conducted. We are normally legalists, such as the Croatian Party's right not to provide information in pre-examination, investigational actions that are carried out, especially in that part of the word, that individual police actions are under way in connection with the case of kidnapping and everything else because we know that such a situation can only harm regular authorities and legal ones in the arrest of criminals and take measures to protect and ensure order and peace. It is also a sad fact that the possibility of extending a significant number of forms of non-material damage compensation has been missed. It's also bad for us to regulate the Institute of Corrections and Answers. These are two very important institutes, which is why we, together with the HSP club, have prepared 19 amendments and submitted our expert team using normal and relevant lawyers' opinions. And now I'm just going to show you the most important part, and that's the one, the first group of amendments that relate to this part of the regulation of the compensation procedure. In fact, we've been trying to fully edit this area so that we've defined precisely, we define what is an objective element of damage, it's like the most normal part, a violation of a person's rights as a presumption of liability for damage. Then, various forms of compensation for immaterial damage are determined, and the learned satisfaction becomes an exceptional form of compensation for damage. We knew, we know and now that in current court practice is exactly that monetary satisfaction is the main form. The possibility of culminating forms of compensation for immaterial damages is prescribed if this results in the purpose of the Institute of Compensation of Intangible Hurts. The publisher is stimulated to self-correct incorrect information, an apology to the damages, which contributes to increasing public communication standards in the long term. The Institute for the Liberation of Responsibilities for damages would be governed by an objective element of damage. So we tried legal and judicial how these problems in court practice regulate this institute so that it would be easier to implement. We also referred to this section of article 37 on the issue of media concentration, and here we go with amendments. In our opinion, the issue of concentration in the media should be governed by specific laws, with general rules on the protection of competition applied in all issues which are not governed by specific law. For radio and television, this is a question regulated by the Law on Electronic Media, and for printing the issue should be done by this law. Since the general information weeks in neither country nor law of the European Union are not subject to specific regulatory provisions, it is proposed that those issues be left out of the concentration provision. It's not the same situation as weeks and journals. It's quite, we can't put it in the same, same basket. So, we're also going, our norm is wider, I'm not just going to explain the content to you on an explanation. Especially, I think, it's important to arrange two institutes, it's the Institute of Correction and the Institute of Answers. Therefore, if, and we have simulated, if the current proposed provisions in the final draft of the law could occur the next variant, which is that the journals should be given daily 30 % of the space for the publication of the correction, for the publication of answers which are neither correcters nor answers, and for this reason is important, and we have given amendments, the Institute of Correction of Information should be regulated in full and consistent accordance with the Constitution of the guaranteed right to publish the correcting information, the correction is an institution that allows citizens to correct incorrect or incomplete information, and therefore it is necessary to allow the publication of exactly such corrections and not any response to information that violates the rights and interests of the proposed law. A person’s right and interest may be hurt by true information but such an injury does not allow the injured person to react to the published information by correcting it. And when the correction is founded then it should be published on the same page, in the same form, in the same size of the letter as the untrue information is published, we know the situations that happened to us so far when you reacted then it happened that you were published on the back of those fine letters, and the cover was made false. Therefore, in this part, we must make it possible to protect the truth, so when the correction goes, then the same size of the letter as the main information must be in the same place. Therefore, we hope that this way we will get a real Media Act that will be suitable for the current development of Croatian society and therefore I propose to the Government to carefully consider these amendments, I think that most of our amendments are aimed at making the Media Act better. But here in the end I have to say important other things on behalf of the club. Namely, here I have a memo from the Journalists' Union of Croatia, it is a sad fact that the media is those who at the same time mean and violate the rights of journalists. On the one hand, we have media that have to be professional and everything else, to really inform the public, but when I've been on many shows and our other MPs, then we always ask journalists if you get paid, whether you're working on an act contract, what is the situation, and there are equally devastating facts. Therefore, we as rightists also draw attention to the media that they should also be the first to protect the rights of their workers, their journalists. And now I'm just going to say that the most common rights of journalists are being violated, it's not to sign appropriate contracts of work, or work, and especially not to be paid after the work done, to cover up the non-performing work of work contracts or of cooperation or of copyright works, to report workers to a minimum amount of pay or less than the actual amount paid, not to pay contributions to compulsory insurance, to the absence of a labour rule. Therefore, it is obvious that media that have the right to promote the truth must also make sure that they are the first to respect the regulations of this country because in this way they will have even stronger power and moral power to tell all of us as public persons everything that is going on, but they have to take care of us, so let's clean up in our backyard and then let's talk about other things. Here, it's another appeal to the media, I have all the media I wouldn't particularly point out, but the media also has to make sure that they have to respect the rights of journalists, who unfortunately came in the same bad position and subordinated as with traders who have to work on Sundays whose rights have been denied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10465	Thank you on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, respected representative Katarina Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10466	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ supports the final proposal for the media law that we are discussing today and which is a substitute for formally abolishing the Law by decision of the Constitutional Court. In addition to the formal arrangement of the area to which the law applies, it is an important shift in the democratisation of society, the modernisation of Croatian media legislation, standardisation and compliance with European regulations and recommendations. The provisions relating to freedom of reception and dissemination of information which is an integral part of the human right to freedom of expression and which receives its true dimension within the framework of freedom of the media have been significantly improved. This is the case with Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Laws specify the terms of public information, journalist and editor-in-chief. The interest of the state is to promote media pluralism and among the fundamental rights to public information to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, with existing social groups included and the obligation to encourage media aimed at informing persons with special needs is set out in Article 5. The law. The article will also improve the amendment proposed by the Government, which obliges the Minister of the Competent Ministry to specify the conditions for granting state aid. The availability of information for both the citizen and the journalist is a fundamental prerequisite for achieving media freedom. It is certain that the journalist will also meet in the publication of his work with the possibility of shorting out information, and that possibility is more precisely regulated in Article 6 which regulates the proceedings under the press suit, in the case of shorting out the public information carried out by the competent court and not by the Administrative Court as provided for so far, since the Administrative Court cannot examine the justification of the short information but simply examine the legality of the proceedings. This proposal also complements the provisions on the protection of privacy with a view to determining that there is no breach of the right to privacy if there is a legitimate public interest in the information published. In part of the Law governing the question of rights and obligations of publishers, the obligation of the publisher to state in the press application the programming basis of the media and all in order to respect the freedom of the media has been deleted. The improvements are also in clearer regulatory provisions on the liability of the damage charger caused by the publication of the information. The subjective time limit for filing damages from 6 to 3 months from the date of knowledge of the published information has been reduced. This Law also sets out the obligation of the publishers to conclude a contract with the author of the contract to avoid non-payment of the state from that base and to protect journalists who were forced to work on black. In particular, the provisions on the achievement of the transparency of ownership such as the regulation of obligations for publishers to supply data on the owners of shares and shares, as well as the regulation of the deadline within which the publishers are obliged to publish ownership structure data in the official list, as already explained by the applicant on 28 February each calendar year. In order to raise the transparency of the business of the media, it is prescribed that the publisher publishes the data on the total income achieved and the average of the reporting or listening and ratings achieved. What led to the public's greatest attention is certainly an improvement in the provisions on the protection of competition, which obliges the publisher to report any intended concentration to be reviewed and evaluated by the Competition Protection Agency. Article 37 sets out the illicit concentration of entrepreneurs on the market of general information logs and on the weekly market where the market share of participants of the actual concentration of entrepreneurs on the market would exceed 40% of the total sales. It is good for the Media Law to address the issue of permitted concentration on the market of general information journals and weekly journals. and this proposal of 40% of the samples sold as a maximum concentration level allows at least 3 different media groups to exist on our market and the possibility of developing media pluralism, and prevents the monopoly In the public were visible and thinking, that as a special possibility an exception to that rule should the public interest justify concentration already from 40%. That's exactly what the HSP amendment came in for, and I think my colleague explained the proposal. Such proposals were also present on committees, particularly on the Committee on Information, which is also the parent board's media. And with the trail of the first debate that Mr Cain made here, on behalf of the IDS Club, it is certain that, in terms of this political influence, there is already some possibility that the media, which the interested groups are already trying to implement. We believe that laws cannot be adapted to the possibilities of individual exceptions, but rather they edit real issues rather than hypothetical issues. The improvement is also in the provisions on the exercise of the right to correction and response, where a more clearly established right of a person appointed in the media for the criminal application of an investigation request, the initiation of an investigation procedure, that, once the proceedings or other legal situations have been suspended, he is entitled to request information from the publishers. So far, I have cited the improvements provided for by this law in relation to the existing, abolished law, and they are certainly visible progress in a more democratic approach to regulating the field of media action. In most parts of the regulation of basic issues, the law is unchanged, as regards the general principles of media action such as media freedom, the obligations of the Republic of Croatia towards public information, the availability of public information, and the right of citizens to protection of privacy. The law also regulates the rights and obligations of the publisher, the responsibility of the publishers for the damage caused by the publication of the information. The position and rights of the editor-in-chief, the rights and obligations of journalists, the area of distribution, and, as I mentioned earlier, the protection of competition, as well as the way in which the right to correct and respond to persons who have been injured by the publication of certain information, the right or interest. What is the basic achievement of Croatian media legislation is a high degree of freedom of the media, in terms of the position of the media in social relations and the right to receive and disseminate information arising from the human right of freedom of expression. Freedom of reporting is limited only to the rights of journalistic profession and ethics. The public interest is to promote pluralism and diversity of the media, and this law, along with a reasoned provision, has just achieved the degree that we have stood by the European acquis, and we propose to accept it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10467	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS Club, DC, respected deputy vice president Đurđa Adlešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10468	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that it is really necessary to repeat why this law is in emergency procedure, which is a decision of the Constitutional Court, to remind again that it happened on 28 January of this year, and that it is necessary to pass the law by 30 April, because this area would be left without precise legislation. So it's only three months in which this important law was to be amended. And I agree that if we look at the number of articles, that's only 6 articles that have been changed, there are important changes in the law. We would especially like to commend from HSLS the very part that speaks of the transparency of ownership, because in the past term we have tried several attempts to change this law to finally know who the media owners are, and we have failed to do so. Of course, the law also has its shortcomings that will have to be corrected by amendments to individual committees, governments and MPs. And I will try to tell you in order what our objections are, but also the elements that we hold to be good. Namely, there are improvements in the reduction of deadlines for filing damages, regulation of personal harm. They say in case of predominantly public interest on that part I will especially return. and what we believe is important in determining that units of local administrations and self-government are obliged to provide information to journalists, then allowing journalists to withdraw information from the public authorities to press charges for illegal action, because citizens have the right to information. I believe that the regulation of a violation of someone's privacy is justified in the case of a largely public interest, it could indeed be a good argument, if it were clear what a public interest is, if there were a definition of public interest, and I hope that by the end of the debate or at least a vote will come with such a definition. Then the question that remains open, who will decide what is the legitimate public interest? Will it be the Government of the Republic of Croatia with its act? Or will the courts decide that? This is indeed unclear and we hold that such explanations are necessary, since we are obliged to warn that if it remains this vague or the law will be more difficult to implement, unimplementable, or possible abuses of it. So we're expecting amendments that haven't arrived on the bench yet. The law can also put these objections which have already been made, which is the right of journalists to protect sources of information. We believe that the solution so far has been better. However, the question of how much this part will be feasible as well. Journalists should be deprived of the information in the future if the investigation, investigation or judicial proceedings are under way, and in cases where it is not about the procedures in which the public is excluded, i.e. the procedures in which the information representing the official secret is presented, that is absolutely logical. A somewhat acceptable and depriving, i.e. acceptable information in the investigation and investigation process, since their publication could cause adverse consequences for the further course of the investigation. But we hold the unnecessarily necessary to introduce the possibility for journalists and the brief information on the ongoing court procedure, which is public, so we believe that the Government will fix it with its amendments or committees. It is also not a well-resolved question of the responsibility of the publishers to the damages. The law, in a completely identical way, established assumptions for the release of publishers from liability for damages regardless of whether it was a violation of someone's reputation and honor or privacy. This is unacceptable because it is two different categories, because reputation and honor are primarily protected from the publication of false information, and someone's privacy is protected from publication and true information. The law may also have provided for immaterial forms of compensation for damages that are not rare in countries with a longer democratic tradition than ours. And we'd like to warn you about chapter 6, where the publication of corrections and answers is regulated. It seems to us that this institute is too prominent, so the newspaper will have to publish every reaction or correction or response of any interested natural or legal person whose name or name is mentioned in the paper, so this solution can be much more restrictive than the previous law and limit the freedom of the media and autonomy of journalistic and editorial work. The part that we keep quality is the provisions that speak about ownership, the control of media concentrations is important because of a fair and pluralistic match, for the development of democracy and protection of freedom of expression. Property in the press can be limited by the number of copies sold, earnings from marketing, share owned by a particular media house, combination of these elements but it is necessary to clearly define whether the concentration of ownership is measured only in the category of identical media, or whether shares in various media, for example newspapers and.../interruption on the strip./... may also have printing and distribution. In European countries there is no generally accepted solution on how to set the threshold for allowed concentration in the media, so we have Germany, Great Britain, Italy where the concentration is regulated by the Law on the Protection of the Competition or in combination with the media regulations. In France, Norway, Slovenia, these are only media laws and the concentration limits are different, so 20% for the national market in Italy, 30% in France, 40 in Slovenia, 50% is a limit for the regional market in Italy alone. And the question I'm holding is that the Secretary of State should answer us anyway, and he invited us to help fix the law, that's the part about punishment. In fact, we have an estimated million kunas for violations and such punishment is not provided for in the Law of Infractions, so we are interested in how much it is then enforceable. I believe that answer is very important for the enforceability of the law. That's article 30 to help. We also accept the amendments of the Committee on Gender Equality and Human Rights. We are particularly interested in working out this part that speaks about child protection. The protection of children is too little to be mentioned in the media. The article 16 only touches, and we hold that part to be elaborated and also protects us from women’s pornography. So here are the expected answers and the government's amendments to this change we support.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10469	Thank you very much to Madam Vice President Adlesic. And now a representative of the government wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10470	Let me, for the sake of a debate in which I expect that some questions may be repeated, immediately, give the necessary explanation regarding these questions relating to the prescribed fines. It is true that the law, as well as the applicable one, provides for penalties that do not have a minimum amount and a high amount of one million kuna has been prevented. This is just to respect the principles of freedom of the media. In fact, we know that there are different economic powers in the media market, so punishing a small print media local with a amount of 10 thousand kuna or 100 thousand kuna would mean its economic end, and this would negatively affect media pluralism. However, as you take to the contrary a powerful medium such as finally Croatia's radio-television that generates an annual income of over billion kunas then prevent such a media from being punished up to 100,000 kunas is indeed inappropriate or the effect certainly would not have been achieved because such a medium could thus calculate the criminal penalty in its behaviour. And allow for just one more clarification on the concentration and the issues that have been raised how the market for different media is measured. And the market, for example, for general information weeks and journals, is being observed separately. In fact, this is always seen on a particular relevant market separately by each medium and media type. As regards the provision which will determine the legitimate public interest, it is always the court and always the court that will ultimately be on the occasion of saying whether in this case the legitimate public interest prevailed over the protection of the right to privacy. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10471	Thank you very much. And now on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS Mr. Representative Luka Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10472	Thank you, Mr. Vice President! Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! I will just remind you that at the end of the term of the last meeting of the Croatian Parliament on media and a series of laws that treat media topics we dealt with very intensively. The culture ministry headed by former Minister Antun Vujic on behalf of the last government has sent a whole series of laws to the Croatian Parliament. So we dealt with the Law on Croatian Radio-Television, the Law on HINA, and the Law on Electronic Media, in the end and the Law on Telecommunications, which in a certain way also touches this topic. Although, at the end of the term of office of the Croatian Parliament, we also passed the Media Act that was at the public debate over, I will remind you, for a full two years. Already today he's back on our benches. As second, I will repeat that the current Media Act has been abolished by the Constitutional Court's decision for purely formal reasons. Since it has not been passed by qualified majority of the votes of all MPs and therefore on the day of the non-compliance of this law, there would be a legal gap which would have had a particular effect on the achievement of human rights and freedoms, which is precisely 30.4. this year and therefore should have been discussed again, that is to say, on this proposal of the law. Although, I must remind you, he hasn't essentially changed much, and in those provisions where the proposed amendments are proposed, I will say on behalf of the HSS and our position. I must remind many of the debates that took place in these two years on the the thesis of the draft law that the most important experts from the media and media legislation participated, both from the country and from around the world. And not only were they involved in the debates but many of the solutions they offered were respected and incorporated into the Media Act itself. Public ownership, transparency of ownership structure, concentration limits in ownership structure, protection of competition, distribution of press, all this is well settled in the existing law and in line with European regulations, and the question is whether or not anything should have been changed in this respect. This law guarantees media the right to free information, free access to information, alternative sources of information, the right to correction if someone is damaged by public information freedom of expression is with us in accordance with international human rights declarations, application of Article 10. European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights. This right includes freedom of opinion and the receipt and dissemination of information, ideas without any interference from the authorities. The Croatian Parliament ratified the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and has become part of our legal system. Freedom also means responsibility, so the law of Article 7 clearly defines the right to protection of privacy, reputation, dignity and honor. Although this right is often violated by those media and written electronics that provide information for example on suspects with a full name and last name, it is rare and later liberating judgments and corrections are often only closely recorded and the damage caused by such an approach is immeasurable. And that's why tightening responsibility in that direction needs to be welcomed. In some media lately, some journalists have been doing their part very well, and this should be an indication to others. In every democratic society, the media undoubtedly plays an important role and they must be a voice to the public and objectively and impartially inform and thus be correct to the authorities. A citizen can only participate in the work of his government and government if he is well, truly informed. And democracy is unimaginable without an active and informed citizen. The government has a direct and daily influence on each citizen through the media, and therefore it is necessary to guarantee true information about its actions and inform its citizens in detail so that citizens can control it in this way. Because nothing so successful destroys democracy as a secret. It is important that ownership in the media is transparent and, as in this Law, it is proposed limited in the way in which each country thinks it is best. The offered solutions in the concentration of ownership are acceptable because no one prevents individual media from developing on the basis of work and good programme orientations. The limit is limited and the purchase of large ones is limited to obtaining monopoly. Monopoly position on the market. The monopoly, both state and private, reduces the number of publishers, thus reducing the plurality of expression, and the state must certainly promote equality of press, radio, television and all media. It's her role because that's exactly how we can enable equality and the truth of information. There's been a lot of talk about concentration, and I'm going to say a few words on behalf of the HSS. We in HSS think that the 40% limit is no obstacle, in fact, that the process that we think is very good for Croatian media is taking place. And so we think that this rate that's supposed to be could be even smaller. 30% of us think it would be quite enough so that both theoretically and in fact there could be at least 3-4 very influential and powerful informative journals that would thus guarantee this plurality and actually make it impossible for any publisher to obtain a monopoly through this possibility and thus rule and media space. According to this proposal for a law, the illicit concentration in the field of press when the publisher of one or more general information journals, or weeks, achieves the ruling position on the trig and so that the number of copies sold, journals or weeklys pass by the current proposal 40%, and we suggest that it be 30% in the HSS. That publisher who has an illicit concentration cannot own or acquire ownership shares in another general information journal or weekly, and in this way we think that any monopoly is clearly disabled. I said earlier that the monopoly in journalism reduces the number of publishers and thus direct plurality of expression. When it comes to amendments that have arrived on behalf of the Government, I must also say that we welcome the amendment that speaks of, Amendment 3 in Article 7(2), which speaks of the compliance of information and we agree with the proposed solution but, therefore, in Amendment 4, we do not accept that Article 8 is amended in such a way as to indicate, there is no violation of the right to protection of privacy if there is a legitimate public interest in the protection of privacy and is added to this amendment in relation to the activity of journalists or information. We do not know what this supplement should mean and we agree that the text remains in the original form as it is proposed. We also do not see the reasons and express our dissatisfaction with the fact that the ministry's competence in further amendments is replaced by the competence of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. We also feel that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce... the organisation and that, in any event, these press records transactions could and should remain in the competent ministry or any other state body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are also against and disagree with the change in Article 13 where the public is said to be entitled to information on the dealings of publishers and to have rights both on the programming and on the programming basis of the media. In this proposal, we also believe that it is necessary to keep this in Article 13 and, given the proposed solutions offered in the amendments, the original solutions in our opinion were better quality. Now, with these remarks that I made on behalf of the HSS, we in the HSS will ultimately support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10473	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the PGS, Madam Representative and Vice-President Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10474	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. As already mentioned several times this bill is before us, since the valid ceases to be in force 30. 4 2004 based on the Constitutional Court's decision as it was not adopted in parliament by a qualified majority. As a matter of urgency, this proposal reiterates to a large extent the provisions already filed in the current law, and to a large extent it is the law that is currently in force. In the opinion of the HNS and PGS Club, two relatively significant modifications appear in this proposal. One refers to the part in which media principles and obligations and other modifications relate to the restriction of ownership concentration, i.e. the protection of competition. First, I'm going to say something on behalf of the HNS and PGS Club about this section that talks about the protection of competition or about the concentration of ownership in the media. In all transition countries as well as in Croatia, we have concentrated or dealt with one problem in the first row for many years, and this is a problem in the control of the state over the media. It's a problem of preventing or detaching the state from controlling the media. By dealing with this problem we have kind of ignored another problem that gradually arises and which is, of course, in developed democracies and established democracies much more often, which is a problem of ownership not in state hands, through this and through control, not in state hands, but in the hands of one owner or one corporation. And the provisions, i.e. the provision that appears in this Act, deal with this particular problem, therefore, by preventing or at the very least restricting the control of the media from a centre other than the state but the owner in the form of a private corporation. The Law on the Protection of Competition, which is in force, does not address the issue of media in an adequate way. It is not suitable for a specific media market and, in our opinion, too general for the media market. The issue of limiting control through ownership, therefore, the concentration of media space control through ownership concentration is not just a matter of fair competition, it is not only a question of the right to diversity of votes, political views and, and public availability. It is a fundamental issue of public development, the democratic public and then, of course, through the possibility of the functioning of democratic institutions. That may sound a little bit general, but it has very practical consequences. The qualified public is a prerequisite for the functioning of any democratic institutions, and it depends largely on the presentation of news, information, comments. Therefore, it depends largely on the diversity and availability of these media and intermediaries to the public of the most diverse voices and attitudes. Concentration means control of production, employment, distribution and the audience. There are, usually considered two types of concentration. One is horizontal, the other is vertical. We are here in the first row talking about horizontal concentration, thus reducing competition and that horizontal concentration is the control of the media of the same kind that would otherwise be in the mutually competitive ownership of a single corporation, one company over different media that would otherwise be in competition, and that is the horizontal concentration, and that is what this proposal of the law is taking into account. Second, the second form is the vertical concentration which is the concentration of the entire production process. So ownership of, say, newspapers, distribution nets, printers. This is usually considered less dangerous although in Croatian conditions and in transition countries it is not less dangerous. It's also pretty dangerous. Just one practical example. So let's say that if you have concentration and ownership over, for example, newspapers and distribution networks, then there's a real danger, so from our own recent past, a known danger that, say, the distribution network refuses to distribute so that we can sell competitive newspapers. Or a newspaper that's not owned by one who owns one newspaper and that distribution network. It is therefore not a small danger, even though we consider it to be less dangerous than this horizontal concentration by having ownership of the same type of media that are mutually competitive. In this proposal, we believe that this issue is somewhat resolved in some ways, and we believe that the formulation is clearer and uniform than in the previous law in which the issue of ownership concentration was resolved or in which Article 33 dealt. Depending on how Article 33 of the Old Law is read, it can be interpreted as meaning the same thing as Article 37 in the new law, but it can also be interpreted differently. It can be interpreted as meaning that anyone who at the moment of the acquisition or decision to buy a new medium or share in a new media no longer has 40% of the ownership or no longer owns over 40% of this type of media, for example a diary or weekly, has the right to buy a new diary or weekly or share in a new journal or weekly. In the current article 37, this is unambiguously defined and it is clear that the new acquisition must not cross that 40% of the ownership or 40% of the market, for example, the daily newspaper or on the other side of the weekly. That is why we believe that in this case it is better and more functional from the point of view of preventing the concentration of control over the media space is resolved. Media space is not any other entrepreneurial space. Media space is one thing you'd say if I first had a little digration, Edmund Burke in, long before we had this debate, that's the fourth group. This is what makes a country's democratic or non-democratic character important. Therefore, it cannot be viewed in my opinion as a normal and common entrepreneurship in any, in any other area, since if it was, it was true in Burke's time even more accurate in our time. What is left here is an open problem of solving insights into the actual part or percentage of the market that covers a particular medium, i.e. specifically covering a particular newspaper, for example, or covering an individual weekly. How much of that market is covered by someone practically speaking extremely hard not to say impossible to this, in these conditions to determine and it would be very important to define, find by the Ministry instruments that will establish this, which are not just an honorable word. Who aren't just gonna come and say, "Listen, this isn't so much." So objectively, objective insight, objectively gathering real information should be defined in some way, and as far as the Ministry Institute is concerned, any chamber that will receive this information does not matter which institution. What is important is to impose an obligation on that institution, to publish these data publicly at the annual level. Whatever the institution is, it must publish that information publicly once a year. So when they are registered within a period of time when they are reported, they should be made public and the institution should be obliged to do so. Secondly, in our opinion, the important modification refers to the part that speaks about media principles and obligations. We believe that in the past law that will be replaced by this, in that part that is regulated now in the new Law, I mean Article 16, and in the old Law Article 15, a new article or in the new Law has been released the first paragraph of what is said in the old Law in Article 15. We find that wrong. I will read that 1st paragraph as it is formulated in the old law and we will suggest that the amendment be returned to the new, in the new Article 16. What has been released says: “Respecting the right of the public to be accurate, impartial, timely, informed of events, phenomena, persons, objects, or activities. The media will adhere to the rules of journalistic profession and ethics when publishing software content. We believe that this is extremely important because it formally sanctions some of the rights of ethical behaviour and some of the rules defined in the code of journalistic society that we believe would be extremely important in these conditions for the democratic public to be highlighted and formally sanctioned. And finally, a few words about the practical problem of not saying who to the turrets in the closet, or the problem that is not solved by this law but is real and existing and that is the problem of Free Dalmatia. It's a practical question, but it's a matter of enormous importance, because there could be a tragedy as other ancients settle down and settle the principle issues of media planning. The free Dalmatia had other potential buyers. In other words, I do not consider it necessary to sacrifice on democracy and the fight against concentration in media space in order to practically save Free Dalmatia. But I believe that it is necessary and possible to practically save Free Dalmatia, and in several ways the state is the responsible state is the owner of this so the Government must enter that situation either by itself financially intervening instantly, whether it gives a short deadline for a new tender or a public tender. Whether it finds a solution among other interventions or bidders that were in the public competition. Whether he organized an invitation contest, such as Adam Mihnik, one of the great fighters for democracy in Eastern Europe, he was time-consumingly interested in buying the Vesnik. They're sub-areas to look into. It must not happen that Free Dalmatia will fail while laws are passed that will save it, so it will not be possible for the operation to succeed and the patient to die. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10475	Thank you. In 11 and 7 minutes, I shall inform you that according to the Rules of Procedure, it is time for the application for a 10-minute hearing. And now on behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Anton Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10476	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here's another one of us on the subject that we've scattered a lot, and we've mostly agreed on. Namely, the overall body of media legislation, which we have dealt with in these past years has one specificity he could not have been the repair of this part of the legislation, he was coming on occasions where huge transformations in ownership took place, and I think the new media factors of the old scrapping out of it became private, privately changing their relationship, and at the same time they also reported to the media that he didn't even know who the owner was. Marketing-related media, media related to the inaccuracy of this entire field. In all this, real interests were expressed in the meantime. Real interests within Croatia, within newly created interests, newly created groups, as well as in fact what with mirrors and the struggle for the completion of Croatia in legislation that is very important, and an integral part of its European legislation. It was a very difficult job and so to say, it was done as one whole, and as a whole it came to this media law, and then to its adoption in this House and then to its subsequent return to completion, i.e. the return to a new debate in the context of a fully formal decision of the Constitutional Court, which, therefore not for some other reason but for formal reasons, was not accepted in relation to the parliamentary majority. In all of this legislation, especially in this media, whole new corpss have been created worthy and legislative ones that have significantly improved Croatian media legislation and concerning such previously unrecognizable things as property transparency, distribution, distribution relations, under equal conditions, the autonomy of the press sphere. The rights of journalists without saying, therefore, all those innovations that concern simply the European conventions of human freedoms and today's understanding of the role of journalistic profession within it. when at the end but perhaps at the beginning because it was first considered as a whole so-called the thesis on media legislation, passed this law, and when it is therefore returned to the Assembly, then the question should be asked whether we are now going to gather a sufficient majority to make it without such a negative decision of the Constitutional Court, or if we are going to change it, or if we are going to take the opportunity to consider it once more, we will eventually correct what we have found to be better in a few months. I think we should have had very strong reasons to do this because this law, meanwhile, was supported by those experts who were to say so by European bodies, OSS and others in terms of a positive assessment. So he got something that is unprecedented throughout our history of media legislation, and a positive assessment of the Croatian Journalist Society, as a law that is from the point of view and that profession, therefore, is extremely favourable. We've made changes. We've changed, the promoter has proposed a whole series of changes, and I have to say this, one significant part of these changes could have been left behind because the repair or nomotechnical or some kind of change or in some way the provisions that are related to other laws appear now in this law, so I think the legal pleonasms that we previously thought were not necessary are now an integral part, but it doesn't matter anyway. However, there is one part of the objections that do not change the overall direction of that previous bill and therefore make it an organic whole between the former law and this law, but in some ways they are changing or declinating that direction from a quite clear objective. This clearly set goal, in my opinion, concerns three key elements, in which the accentes of this law are different from the previous one, and we need to assess them politically in this House. Because these are political issues, and they are, of course, about what political issues are raised on, and that is the attitude of society's interest to adopt in this form or that form. The first complex is that what we viewed as a culture of public dialogue as an important innovation and an important interest in achieving new legislation, in some ways audited, is not much but is significantly revised, and let me warn you of Articles 21 and 22 in which, in fact, the key position of correction and response is relatively relatively and in fact what should have been a key thing, which is to reduce the huge number of charges for compensation for the immaterial damage done to mental pain, and so on, the obsessed judiciary with media problems, is reduced to a reasonable measure. And to primarily focus the right to correction as a key thing. In Article 22, however, all this is repeated, but it is also said by paying compensation in accordance with the general rules of mandatory law. It is also part of the Law on Mandatory Relations and it understands itself. But this law dealt primarily with media issues, did not deal with the issue of mandatory law, nor did I say so wanted to stimulate what would come on the other legal basis this way or would not come. We asked for the urgency of reacting in terms of correction and that's the meaning of this law. The meaning of another law is something else, here the correction was in some way not directly, but nevertheless an integral part of a culture of public dialogue, so when it was published and a correction and an apology for something then I guess it was a very important aspect by which it was not necessary then and a lawsuit or at least a different view of those judicial services that would draw certain interests, i.e. large damages or so on. These are very important things because, therefore, a little bit different from what I think is a very strong message from this previous law. Secondly, in my opinion, what's even more important than this is that it doesn't fully understand all the necessary elements of what we can call the autonomy of a journalistic profession because one institution is lost in several places. The programme basis as part of the public statement of the list about itself, part of its legitimacy is not only important because it knows what list is even though it is important but is also important because it is an integral part of the contract between publishers, editors and journalists. So when a contract is drawn up between journalists and publishers, then the contract also refers to the appropriate programming basis, and so the X Journal, which was originally a conditional sheet of one and a certain political or other factions, if it wants to become suddenly and overnight a list of others and reverse political factions, then the journalist has something to say about it because he signed a contract on the basis of such a list, rather than on the basis of another list. We're not just saying this as a hypothetical question, we're saying this because there have been cases like this, so there have been some leaves, or they've become different sheets, and they've put journalists in a position to either be in conflict with their own conscience or to accept paradigms that actually make them obedient servants to the orders of their editors. Dear ladies and gentlemen, there are more daily lists in Croatia than in Sweden. It's a piece of information that's been published in a list called "The Journalist," so I hope it's correct, I haven't checked it myself. But there is another anomaly that this law wanted to avoid, and now I'm not sure how it's going to work. With so many journalists, with so much interest in the media, there is one question, which is actually what the media is selling to. Whether the media is selling information to its readers, listeners, viewers, or actually those as the same title has been expressed in the same list of sales to readers, listeners and viewers to the interests of their owners. These are addictions and interdependences, which is why information cannot be seen as a slave because it is also a slave, but it is not only a slave. That's why there's a media legislation that regulates this very second part, one where it's not just a slave. There are now considerable steps in the direction that it is understood as a slave because even at the symbolic level of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has become a place to keep records of the registers, etc. etc. And that's not the Ministry of Culture. I don't know what the line of protection of the legality of work will look like before I say the separation of the resources of those who should protect them and those where they are, but it may be a technical question, but I don't understand if there's anything else in the media, the information isn't just a commodity, it's a declarative classification where goods are and where entrepreneurship is, it's an honor to entrepreneurship and not to say where journalists are and where the media are. By the same logic that I don't normally approve of and I don't think it would be good, but I want to do one symmetry, then the society of journalists, the Croatian Journalist Society, could run the books, could keep this whole record. Well, I think they're closer to the media than one of the Czechs, as someone said to societies like the Chamber of Commerce that note bene has primarily to what entrepreneurship is within these newspapers, with therefore a commodity part of the information, so why wouldn't it be a society of journalists? I'm not saying that would be good, I'm just saying that there's nothing left at the level of understanding that information is something special from the goods themselves and why it needs to be regulated differently. And now we come of course to this question that many here are most interested in, and I must confess to us as well as to which they break the spear. In a way that perhaps in some of the discussions in my opinion if you let me say so, since I was pretty much within these laws, is not quite understood. The difference between the previous law, that is, the earlier text of the law and this is simulated but not wrong, comes down to the following. If you own less than 40% of the charge, or share in the relevant market, then you can buy someone else. If you're going over it, then you can't. You can make your share, and 80% of it's none of your business. You as one successful daily or weekly can achieve so that no one else will read but only you, but you cannot buy the other one that exists. The point of this law was not to reduce or restrain entrepreneurship but to protect pluralism, it's the main accent that now takes one form at least to say ambivalence and I'm going to say what ambivalence is. Under the new law, not only can you not buy another when you have over 40% but you must not go over 40% with that purchase. It's an absolutely impossible position in itself and so to speak it would be more restrictive than anywhere else because especially a mass of cases could not be solved, cases that are from our living practice, some here mentioned them, but I think it's kind of too strict and that's why they need... I'm not going to worry about whether this is stricter or more stricter than I'm worried about, and I think it should be the concern of this House, which is to exclude those rights that should come as rights, those obligations that should come as obligations for the benefit of the exception. Between the current wording of the article, help me with 33rd, right, 37th and earlier, so there's the next asymmetry. It is that this article seeks a foothold on the concentration of ownership in the Agency for the Protection of Social Competition and in this law, and in this law it is not prescribed, but it is here that it returns the matter to 40% again. We didn't get anything from this formulation because if we're going to go under this law then it's going to be worth this law, so there's going to be 40% again, so in my opinion it's a non-compliance of one and the other law, but there's something else here and that's what's supposed to be, and there's only one thing that needs to be determined, and then there's a particular social interest. I believe that a particular social interest should not be established, but if it should be determined as an exception, then it should be written as to what that interest looks like and what the exception looks like. I wouldn't want to be in the position of that employer, that entrepreneur who will depend on arbitral interpretation, you don't know exactly who or who should interpret it, who himself said they weren't equipped. We're talking about the Competition Protection Agency, for a job like this, you wouldn't want to find yourself in his position, so I'm going through risks and exceptions. Exceptions and risks are something that can be given one time and another to deny. And while some examples have already been mentioned here that I am not going to quote in the headlines, then I must tell you that the direct consequence of this anomaly is a potential giving up on a serious issue. A lot of people have mentioned the question here. We didn't do the right thing by going and getting involved in this change. It does not concern any party, it concerns Croatia's interest as a state, concerns the interest of the media, concerns media freedoms and concerns this Parliament as what needs to be stood up positively and actively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10477	Thank you very much. Now we have three clubs. LIBRA, SDSS and the Club of National Minorities whose speakers have taken over, with contact with a foreign delegation, have announced. So I'm asking that we continue the debate individually, and when the representatives of the clubs show up, then they normally get involved. Here, he's back, you see, uh, okay. On behalf of the National Minority Club, Mr Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10478	Thank you very much. A national minority club believes it is extremely important for a country like Croatia to democratically regulate media space. Croatia, let's not forget, came out of a state of strictly controlled information just 14 years ago. Of course, we all remember such an age and within that totalitarianism still brought together one, as I would say, latin and pluralism ideas. And that was reflected in the means of public information. But everyone at the time was well-known boundaries and censorship, actually, and self-censorship was a matter of everyday life. We will agree, further, that in the 10 years following the fall of Yugoslav socialism, it means in the first 10 years of sovereign Croatia, either because of the state of war uncertainty, whether because of a system which, we do not have to agree with, but some have called democracy. We have witnessed the particular development of media space in terms of information, in terms of affirmation of ideas, free expressions of political discipline. For all these reasons, Croatia today, as far as media freedoms are concerned, cannot be but in a state of transition. We could say in a state of the worst transition. Not only for most of the electronic media, but also for part of the press, the state of state ownership still exists. One part of the information press, the information media is still owned by the state, and those who are in private hands are often in one state that, by which it cannot be distinguished, by which it cannot be determined to write about politics or deal with politics. For members of national minorities, living in a democratic and free society and the freedom of the media in such a space is actually an important and important factor. And that's why it's in the interest of national minorities to have the best, the more democratic, the more free media space. That's why the question mentioned here, which was spoken of on several sides, is the issue of media concentration, ownership concentration, pardon. In fact, it is extremely important that we can actually conclude whether we will live in a society marked by a free media space or a media space that, because of the ownership issue, is also determined by different kinds of discipline. This law is more restrictive than the last law on ownership. The previous law set 40% of the sales of examples on the market for general information journals as the maximum level of concentration allowed. And that seemed one sensible solution because it was listed on all sides, it allowed, in fact, it produced such a media space by which the bar, where there could be no less than 3 large owners. It is now proposed that the 40% remain and that 40% be the maximum that is reached even after the purchase of new information funds. The National Minority Club, of course, is against all kinds of media concentration because it stems from itself that the higher the concentration of media is healthy can be reasonably concluded, the higher the concentration of ownership in the media, the less media freedom it has. Of course, it's not always like that. We are talking about Croatia, about the country that is located, as I said before, and about information and about the media at a time of transition. And transition is just, as I would say, one feunism or one word that says in a nice way that here in Croatia and as far as information is concerned, it's not all the way it should be. That's why we use the word transition. Not because we like to play with foreign terms. Why would I say that? Because I believe that in such a state that we, we must stick to, we must stick to some of the principles of stricter and more than it may be in some Western, in some countries of developed democracy. For example, some Scandinavian countries. Some Scandinavian countries have a concentration of press, press, a concentration of ownership that is far, far above 40%. But such concentration, on the other hand, is not, such concentration is hardly against anyone for the simple reason that within such a concentration there is one, one internal democracy in terms of freedom, freedom of editorship and freedom of regulation, freedom in terms of regulation of newspapers. Can we be able to have a higher concentration of capital, and also within that higher concentration of capital in the newspaper to keep the freedom of regulation? We at the National Minority Club actually think not. We believe that in a country like Croatia, which has not yet solved...all its problems in terms of general human freedoms, and even within the media space, it is better to have a lower concentration of capital. Of course, this lower concentration of capital actually every entrepreneur in the means of public information is able to play. Two partners can agree and put two practical companies in a different name and actually act under different companies in parallel and thus avoid any accusation that they have concentrated capital. The concentration of capital will not prevent such a provision, but we still believe that such a concentration should in principle be limited. And that is why we believe that this provision, unlike some others, that this provision prohibiting the concentration of the final number of copies sold to 40% and when and after the purchase of new press releases should be kept because it still gives one greater guarantee that with more owners, media space will be more free. There is a conflict, however, at this point with one fact, and that is the fact that in the sale is one of the largest, in terms of tradition, and in terms of sales of copies, it is, however, in the case of 5.6 major newspapers, conflicting with the fact that it is sold Free Dalmatia, and in fact it is one particular case that if such a law were created as is proposed here, it is one particular case that would actually be solved at the expense of some who are in the game to buy Free Dalmatia, it should be kept in mind in my opinion, because usually in such cases, or it is waiting for the adoption of the Law that is not possible here, because some deadlines restrict us or allow us to buy one newspaper that are also in major problems. What we have said that we agree with the principle does not mean that this principle cannot in some cases, in some cases it is not possible to give up in particular when these newspapers that want to be bought in problems such as Free Dalmatia but the principle is that we believe it should be adopted because it limits capital concentration. In addition, the National Minority Club believes that they should be adopted and that amendments that have been voted on by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities should be supported, as all representatives of national minorities have supported such amendments on that committee. These amendments concern, in general, media freedoms but concern some definitions that stand in the introduction itself, in Article 2 but also concerning the prohibitions of the transfer of some software content where it is proposed that, apart from the transfer of software content in the media, the prohibitions of the transfer of content that enlarges national, racial, religious, sexual and other imbalances should stand and the inequality resulting from sexual orientation, and should further affirm the ideas of ideological orientations of some ideological orientations, in particular some ideological orientations concerning antifascism. The National Minority Club believes that a source of information should be protected because it was in the Law that preceded not this Law but the Law that we adopted last year and because the protection of sources gives information rights to journalists and gives safety to journalists so that they can deal freely with their work and that they can normally report. In fact, in all democratic countries, the protection of sources of information is actually ensured because in this way, it is certainly one of the paradigms and basic reasons and basic principles that protect free journalism. A normal thing to protect sources of information can be at some point and limited but we believe that it can be limited in the same cases that should also be determined by the right of journalists to have information in court proceedings. In fact, the protection of the source of information could be affected by, of course, a judicial decision only in cases in which it is encouraged, thus encouraging terrorism or inciting violence against the civilian population, and at the same time, this should be the principle by which only a journalist should not have information in the course of court proceedings. So in the course of court proceedings, a journalist should have all the information unless they encourage some kind of violence particularly of terrorism or against the civilian population. The National Minority Club will vote for such a law, of course, with those amendments proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10479	Thank you very much. The Croatian Parliament visited a group of citizens from Međimurje County and we welcome them. And now these two announced club representatives will be waiting temporarily. We move on to a debate of 10 minutes, the first female representative is Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10480	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, MPs and MPs. The proposal for a media law should provide, or create, an environment for our Croatian media to play that social role, as planned, both on the basis of information and education. How to create the law, therefore, to keep the media in the service of the truth, so that they truly serve the common good, peace, justice, and, in particular, the most general, social stability. How to create and ensure precisely to the media that they faithfully convey events, that they represent events correctly, and that they are impartial in different views, so that they promote justice and solidarity at all levels. But this does not mean that at any time or in any way it prevents them from pointing out or reducing any injustices, divisions, but to detect their roots, and then so that we can all put them together, something like that, and eradicate them. So how to come and ensure, in essence, that our media really be public reads in the service of freedom, when they serve the truth, because that's the only way they can and only then the media when they are in the service of the truth, if they are also freedoms, when they are truly free. Therefore, sometimes in certain laws that regulate this issue, to mention only the law on the availability of public information, which is simply crucial in all of what we are saying simply in no case should the Media Act be crossed, i.e. the great achievements that have been achieved and the principles which have been reached and developed in the Law on the Accessibility of Public Information. Thus, in the laws of the seemingly privileged status, it is the very media that is obliged to rise above the purely market-based relations that counterpart Vujic spoke of and serve the true needs and interests of society. But in order for them to do so, I think that's exactly what this legal framework should be used for. Therefore, it is highly doubtful, perhaps the most fundamental provision of Article 30, which bears the name of the protection of the source of information. If we look at the content of that article, then these are exactly the exceptions to the protection of sources of information. The truth yesterday, Mr. Secretary of State on the Legislative Committee said that, in short, it was also the content of the previous law in the provision of Article 28, and that is correct, he was right. However, this does not mean that such a thing should be passed in this law. However, we have a chance after the Constitutional Court's decision to make things better. It's basically the right of the press not to reveal the source of the information. In this way, as it is fully relativised, that protection is practically now so set that its basic right is an exception, and that in all these cases it will be cast out. This shall be sufficient, namely, to limit that very well and transparently set out in Article 3(3). This restriction could therefore apply only when necessary, for the sake of national security of the country, territorial integrity, public order, peace, the prevention of riots and criminal acts, which is very important and which ultimately connects in this way the law, where transparently stated in Article 3(3) and with a criminal law that even foresees as a punishable part of non-reporting when someone knows that a dangerous criminal offence is being committed. Protection of health and morals, protection of the reputation and rights of others, prevention of the giving of confidential information or in order to preserve the authority and impartiality of the judicial authority. Only in the manner prescribed by law. So there are transparently defined all these exceptions and then that's enough and quite clear. However, if we introduce, if we introduce the concept of protection of public interest, where we don't know what its contents are, then we're on a very slippery ground, and then really protecting the sources of information is fully relativized. It's true what Mr. Secretary of State said, that it's the court that will determine what public interest it is. But the truth is that the promoter, which is precisely the most common government and state bodies, will support the court and claim that this is precisely a public interest. I hate to recall the 90s that brought us to great trouble at the time with The Hague, when the Hague documents were not being delivered under the announcement that it was a protection of public interest, that hiding the truth was a protection of public interest. Therefore, under public interest, anything and everything at various times can be supported, and that is one great danger. Not only for journalists, for their fundamental freedom to get information, but it's a bad message and informers, people who report journalists, media by irregularities, it's especially important, it's especially important from the aspect of the discovery of corrupt crimes, which have just been revealed in this way, that the people who pointed out it was protected by their identity, and has never been discovered. If this is how, if the government persisted on a proposal like this, which the truth had been wrongly set before, this should be warned, then perhaps we were focused on some other important things that were certainly a shift and that contained this proposal, but this is a major danger and should be warned about it. Here we can see that the Committee on Legislatives and its amendment is already going to that illogicality that here they are, and even I am authorised by the court to propose before the court, or the court and to propose and the court determines the public interest. Thus, the Legislative Committee itself has already seen such a lack of logic and something that is not at all viable in a regulated country. Therefore, there is one major danger here and it is enough to protect it, i.e. to deviate from the protection of the source of information, only in those cases which are transparently taxed as stated in Article 3(3). All this other stuff would be very fatal. Equally, it is necessary here at the end precisely for the principle of legality and respecting the principle of legality, that here where it is spoken of infringing provisions, where criminal penalties are threatened, to fines for a certain offence, certain infringements are listed, and somewhere they are not, so that should be precisely the principles of legality, i.e.. the determination and violation and criminal sanctions should be harmonised in any case. What is also very important is this relationship between privacy and knowledge, i.e. the right of the public to know information especially about public figures. At first glance, there seems to be one tension between these two rights, freedoms and also protected and European conventions, and also the Constitution of freedom of every person to privacy, on the protection of his personal integrity, freedom, honor, dignity, but also on the other hand, this right to knowledge, knowledge, the necessary facts about such persons. However, if the instructions and the Council of Europe are followed at 9 points which are addressed to countries in July to follow such recommendations, and that the seemingly imbalance between these fundamentals, i.e. seemingly those two values that may be in conflict, I do not think there would be any problem, and in particular this concerns the freedom of journalists to report freely on the work of police, judicial authorities but on the other hand also so that they do not go into the fundamental right of man to a fair trial and to the independence of the judicial authority. So, all of this presents one big challenge, and I think that if there were any repairs to this and what colleague Vujic was talking about, then we could have such a single legislative norm that would make all of this possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10481	Thank you very much. Now we're going back to the club debate. On behalf of the Club LIBRE Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10482	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank you for the opportunity that since I was in our delegation that after the debates began, I would take a word on behalf of the club. First of all, I'd like to say something about the procedure for passing this law. In this regard, we formally adopt this law because the Constitutional Court has challenged the way the current law is passed and it should be said that, in this sense, when it comes to this qualified majority, we are actually very freely engaged in the Croatian Parliament and that such things should not happen. I don't think this is the only law that would be challenged by the Constitutional Court, that, over the past years, a request for an assessment of constitutionality for that reason has been filed. I'm afraid that if we looked a little bit at how we changed some of the laws that we passed with a qualified majority and others with an ordinary majority, someone would ask the question of what with the law that was contested and previously passed with the ordinary majority what the legal situation and the legal consequences that this law had caused. So, according to that institute, I could say we're being irresponsible. And that's how he repents of this example. This is too important a law to be passed in such a way that this error can happen to us and that ultimately this law that we are forced to pass because there would be a legal void we bring in by a hasty procedure. The media law which is therefore not only the same law that we have passed, which is therefore still valid because the validity of this law ends on 30 April this year. He endures some changes and such an important organic law we pass by hasty procedure and it is certainly not the way this Croatian Parliament should work. The issue should be treated much more responsibly so that this does not happen anymore. When we talk about it in the text of the law, the law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The People's Newspaper", which means that with such a provision of this article, the law cannot be caught on 30 April. I have not noticed that the Legislative Committee has proposed a different entry into force of this law. So I suggest to those who have more legal knowledge to think about it a little bit. It will therefore turn out that whenever this law is passed, if the entry into force of the eighth day of the day of its publication in the People's Newspaper, we will have from 30 April until the day of the entry into force of this law a legal void which again speaks, of course, of the way we adopt such important laws. And now, in my opinion, in the opinion of the Club LIBRE also on the most important provision of this law, which is the provision of Article 37(1) on the concentration of ownership. Of course, not forgetting that the law as a whole is a very important law I hope that in all its provisions it is fully in line not only with the recommendations of the competent European institutions and bodies but rather that some of these things are actually taking the best solutions. Of course, first of all, I mean not only the transparency of ownership, or the ban on concentration, but the transparency of business and what is related to that protection against the monopoly. Here it is proposed to retain an existing provision of 40% of the concentration of ownership and these days, these months in fact several articles in Croatian media showing that ownership concentration of 40% is the highest concentration that meets in European countries. Most European countries have a concentration of around 1/3, 30% and the question is whether Croatia or any transition country that is just developing its institutions of civil society, the highest standards of democratic life, the overall political culture, whether it must be at the top of the European countries' solution, which is 40%. It would be good if we made that solution, of course, it would be good when we passed the first law to see what the parallel solutions were. There is no such thing, the proposer does not offer this at least gives quite extensive material about other solutions to this law and there is no review of today's media concentration in Croatia, which is very important. It would be good to know if it can measure the state of media concentration in Croatia today. If this cannot be measured, this would be the reason why this is not presented to us, then the question of how we will apply this provision, such an important provision of the law. Therefore, it is one very important thing and it would be of course to say to us who do so well that we have a review of the solution of this institute in Europe and the world, of course where we believe this can be constructive for this debate, especially in European countries, because the freedom of the media is a particularly important topic which has been the oldest institution of Europe for many years, and this is the Council of Europe and its Parliamentary Assembly. I don't know if there was a speech here, so I didn't participate in the debate, in the explanation of the proposings, or in the text of the law itself, and there was no argument in the reasoning of the law that most of the media in Croatia today is owned by foreign law. Let us remember the political importance of speech in both the Croatian public and the Croatian Parliament on whether most Croatian banks today are owned by foreign banks, so if it is important, if it is devastating and in person, and on behalf of the Club LIBRE, I think it is not fatal but should be kept in mind. So if it is a devastating property of banks, then it is equally or perhaps more destructively foreign ownership of the media and then those who consider it a particularly important issue both in Parliament and in the public make an important issue that should be raised on this example, so the majority foreign ownership of Croatian media. And, of course, where the concentration threatens exactly that kind of ownership, so it's the same one of the issues to be paid attention to. For all these reasons, the Club of Representatives will, of course, support this law, but we will, because we believe that it is, in most of its solutions, on the basis of these recommendations and within the standards which the Republic of Croatia has decided and wishes to respect not only as part of its obligation to join the European Union but rather from the basis of our own democratic determination, but we will propose an amendment which is not a condition for our vote for this law, but we believe that this amendment is very important. We will propose an amendment that the highest concentration of ownership in printed media, journals and weeklys can be 1/3, 33%. A solution that is common in developed European countries, especially for those countries which, such as the Republic of Croatia, are building all the institutions of their democratic political system. Where these institutions have not been built by the end, and for the construction of these institutions they need decades to pass. There, the possible adverse consequences of the development of democracy, by the structure of power, by strengthening parliamentaryism, are even more devastating than in developed countries. So if a country has and needs to reduce that 40% limit to lower values then there should be countries that are just building their democratic system in all its segments. From Parliament to civil life. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude, this law should, therefore, be accepted, seen to avoid this legal void that I was talking about at first. And we will therefore, until the end of the debate, suggest that the highest concentration of ownership in Croatian media be at the maximum 1/3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10483	Thank you. Now on behalf of the SDSS Club Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10484	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen, representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. This Bill proposal is another one in a series that is discussed in the Croatian Parliament, regarding the media, we can already say it is short term. The short term, first of all, because it does not include some substance in an adequate way that not only blows behind our necks but is also an integral part of the new forms of public, new forms of communication. In this Law the central place has traditional media such as press, possibly television, and all other new media that can make up or can make up public communication, unfortunately, are not adequately represented by this Law. And for this reason, I predict that, at some point soon, we will have on the agenda a new Media Law, which will regulate the issue of the share of new media in public communication. Which and in what way will this regulation take place, of course, is not easy to speak at the moment, but it is quite certain that new electronic communications, new forms of communication via the Internet and through other types of communication will require a completely different regulation than we have so far when it comes to the press, when it comes to television. As far as the bill itself is concerned, the way it's broken, I assume it's for example. Article 2 of which is the denominator of this Act, i.e. the basic denominator, I assume that it has also been made according to the suggestions of representatives of international organisations and according to the suggestions of the interested parties in this case of journalists organisations. Otherwise, I'm an obituary as it is, I don't see how it could make any special sense on our occasions. I have heard the argument that the question of programming grounds is something that is relevant to journalists and the journalistic profession that a set of programming bases is something that should be insisted on in this law, but when it comes to software content, then it's absolutely certain that it should be different to understand because I don't see that daily news is something that can be software content. Daily news is simply something that goes through the communication channel and goes through the media that we're talking about and talk about that it's software content, it's quite safe or inaccurate or at least quite tense. Probably in this sense, this termology should be adapted to our language spirit, or to our language and media opportunities. But only so much, I touched him because he defined privacy. And as I said yesterday on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities in a way that is incorrect. Moral, honor, reputation, colleagues and fellow MPs, each of us knows that, is not a private matter. It neither acquires private, defends private, nor develops private. It's almost like saying someone's playing chess in private and following chess rules in private. Or any other kind of rule. Well, that's true, of course, for moral obligations, moral rules, and moral standards. They are not made in private and are not followed in private and are not in the sphere of privacy in this respect. About them each of us may have feelings, may have an honest or less honest relationship, or an dishonest relationship but they are not a private matter. Private matters are of course an issue of emotion, a matter of pain, a question of family and a question of choice such as here with the right punishment, commitment or the like, these are things that have a private, or personal character. But categories of morality, categories of dignity, categories of honor and reputation as you have rightly stated in Article 7 and then in article 16 "are different from categories of privacy". And because of this, as we have otherwise adopted on the Committee on Human Rights as an amendment, we propose not only for nomotechnical reasons but to avoid possible confusion in the subsequent interpretation of this Law we propose to clearly distinguish the sphere of privacy from what constitutes a sphere of morality, honor, reputation and dignity. The third thing I would like to say here is that unfortunately I couldn't hear all my colleagues and colleagues, which I am sorry about, and on the one hand, in a few, we are actually sorry that we have been disabled because of other obligations to hear others, which is actually the point of participation in the discussions in the Parliament, to actually hear and, if necessary, to face opinions. But I see that a significant part of the debate was focused on the issue of ownership. Any of his transparency, any of his concentrations. I would now direct the attention of the SDSS Club and my attention as an agent on the issue of ownership and editorial relations. Or the owner in this case of the publisher and the editorial. It's an area that's very sensitive and sensitive for two reasons. Sensitive because it is unquestionably necessary to protect the publisher and its publishing rights, i.e. ownership rights and to question its business and editorial policies, must be harmonised so that the risks of the editorial policy cannot be or may not be such as to question the publishing interests of particular property. But, gentlemen and gentlemen, it is equally certain that the publishing interests and the question of ownership interests cannot and must not be so in relation to the regulation, or regulation, to endanger the freedom of the public and the basic agency in this type of public, or entities, are journalists and their role in public communication. And for this reason we propose that Article 24 which regulates the issue of appointments by the editor-in-chief is defined as defined not only in good traditions of ordinary but also in good legislative practice that we do not have this kind of definition as you stated in the proposal, which says: “News and other occasional editions, if I can remind colleagues and colleagues, radio and television stations, and news agency programs must have the editor-in-chief appointed and resolved by the publisher in accordance with law and statute. Before the appointment or resolution of the editor-in-chief, the editor-in-chief shall obtain an opinion from the editor-in-chief if the press statute is not otherwise specified.’ In our opinion, in order to protect the role of the editorship, which means protecting the role of the public and the basic entities of the public, and these are journalists, then it is necessary to define the conditions under which this opinion is obtained. And under what conditions and how this opinion is ensured in relation to the rapporteur's proposal for the editor-in-chief. In some countries, we have today had guests from France, the leading national newspaper in France “Le Monde” as well as journalists who are following our session here, our sessions, followed by the Parliament, has 33% therefore 33% of the members of the editorials or editors should agree with the proposal of editors. But in practice, if it's below 50%, it's actually considered unfair, unacceptable and something that's already in some way disrupting the relationship between the owner and the public or the public agent, which is a profession of newspapers and journalists. Since we do not have this kind of culture and customs in our public information space, I do not think that in the interest of not only strengthening the freedom of the media but also protecting the journalistic profession should be proposed in our case by 50% of the members of the editorial office or the plans of the editorial. I am convinced that I would not question the business interest of the publishers, would not question ownership rights and the role of the owner, while ensuring that the public can be absolutely safe through the editorship and through the newspaper to ensure that the media, or that journalists, can have a significant impact and to a significant extent predetermine how editorial policy will be conducted in some media. And finally, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues to return to what was my initial objection. Maybe a little bit of a surprise considering our opportunities, but certainly not unfounded. And to go back to what else is our difficulties in the public and in the media, and that is the absence of normality and the absence of self-regulatory mechanisms in public communication in general. What we call a good custom, good rules that are not regulated by law, but on which laws rest and without which laws cannot, without coercion, cannot count on adequate application. It is absolutely certain that normality and ethics in public communication cannot and should not be fully regulated by this Law. But it is quite certain that some institutes of normality and ethics in newspapers, in media houses and in the public should be defined by promoting normality and ethics. And not to limit freedom of speech, but precisely to expand the space of freedom of speech, while, at the same time, in relations with communication, public statements, interpersonal acts, creating that kind of communication that we haven't had in recent years, unfortunately. We had a type of freedom, a public communication that was burdened with many negativity. If this is the price of freedom, we have paid for it and, of course, we cannot regret it, but it is quite certain that in future measures of freedom of public communication should be the force of ethics for those involved and who participate in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10485	Thank you very much. We're going back to a ten-minute hearing. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10486	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This law was not passed last fall because HDZ voted against it, so it did not get the required majority. The HDZ government is now sending the same law to Parliament for adoption. So much for HDZ's seriousness in Parliament and in the government. The law was good and he got... The law was good. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Employee: Do not judge the seriousness of HDZ because you are not qualified to do so as not to assess the seriousness of any party in this House]] He's good today. And it would be even better if the government's interventions weren't in two, three places, so I'm only going to talk about those two or three checkpoints where the law is broken. First concentration, Article 37. It is necessary to enable pluralism in media space. That's the whole point. But don't stop the entrepreneurial... And it was well solved in a way that the law said: “He who has up to 40% of the impact, media ownership can go into a new acquisition”. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Law now lays it down and says: “Not even with a new acquisition can 40 percent be crossed.” Look, this is about one arbitration decision. I hear Club Libre is going to propose 33%. Now we can figure out here is that 33, is that 35, is that 40, is that 45, where is now the border where pluralism is threatened? And we won't come to a solution because no other country has come to a solution either. If there was a clear limit possible, it would be likely that both Europe and European countries would be established in media laws. Practice is different from country to country, but we need to know what our goal is, and are we fulfilling that goal by any legal provision? By the legal provision that was in force, I am deeply convinced that the goal has been fulfilled. For what? Because look you need to prevent the monopoly. If anyone has 39%, in order to achieve a monopoly he must win another 61%. So is it even a life thing that someone with 40% will be able to swallow someone else who has 60% in one bite? That he could swallow bigger than himself. It's completely unlively, it's completely unrealistic and it doesn't threaten, but absolutely no danger. So I don't even know why that provision was changing. I don't understand it at all. I understand only that it will prevent free entrepreneurship, and nothing will help this, that pluralism in the media space will be stronger or greater. Absolutely nothing will contribute to that. She'll just stop entrepreneurship. In this regard, it is a poorer solution than it was in the existing law. There's a rumor here that this could be sprayed in a way that at the last minute one amendment comes either by the government or by the majority club, under which this rule would remain strictly in the law, but it would allow the government to assess and allow some change. If that happens against it, we'll be strong. Because it's a direct path to corruption. So the government tells a publisher to look for a friend doesn't value it, no one's worth it, but we'll let you. And what they're going to do for the favor of writing about the government is more beautiful than the government deserves. Too much ome, any exception has cleared the way to corruption. If such an amendment appears I don't know if it will appear it will be the worst solution of all. I hope that there will be no second debate in this law only if the amendments sent by the government are discussed, because the law and amendments make up one whole, and the law is additionally corrupt with amendments. First of all, the amendments threw out the programming base, in preamble to that notion, the p-rogram base remained, you forgot to throw it out of the preamble, so now we have a rather interesting situation, to mention the programming base, which, with later on, is completely thrown out. That's a pretty interesting solution talking about how you work. He's talking about the way and the style of work. But let's get on with it. Which is a software base. And why it's important for the programming base to remain in the law. One article says that the programme basis is an integral part of a contract on employment between publishers and journalists. And that's how it's important to be. And it's important that it doesn't come out. Why is it because a journalist is, for example, a journalist? employment in a newspaper that has a democratic programming basis. And then the publisher realizes that with that basis, he's not going to sell a sufficient number of newspapers and change the software base into a social democratic. Because they'll sell more. But a journalist must know to be protected if employment in the democratic crowds has to be written to him in a labor contract, he must be assured that in such a programme orientation, he will be able to write further on such a programme basis. Or let's do a more drastic example. Someone gets hired to start writing in the paper, about protecting in nature. Protect nature. And the publisher later on changes that programming base, and such a leaf prevoir, for example, to a pornographic magazine. The journalist won't work in it, he didn't even get a job in it, he got a job on one programming basis. And the law says who has to enter the labor contract, so clearly he has to enter to protect the journalist. Which is why this progressive basis is now being thrown out, but it's to me, but it's completely unclear that neither the secretary of state explained it, nor was it explained in the amendments. Why are you throwing it out of the law now? One such important thing. Next, legal journalists to protect the source of information. It's an article 30 that's an unusually important thing. There must be no exception, there must be one exception in such a way that the court can order the journalist to issue a source of his information. Because journalists then stop being journalists, they send possible police confidants. And there are ways for the state to get information. She's got tempers. Well, he doesn't have to use the press for that. So why the press. In addition, journalists are directly threatened. Their safety. Look, a journalist can write about a subject like organized crime. And now he's writing something and the court is calling it, come on who you found out from would you tell me? A reporter comes along and suddenly becomes a target. The target of revenge for those he wrote about. You can't let that happen. This puts journalists at risk as well as freedom to write them. Because they'll be keeping track of such topics. THAT IT WOULD NOT be as witnesses, by order of the court called to testify in court. And so as not to throw out the threat of revenge from the simplest revenge. It's important to get this exception out of the law. He's got his own way. He's got intelligence, let him use them. The last thing I want to say is that the ministry is exempt from the law and now all the affairs of the minister are being transferred to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Please be nice to have the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. It's an employers' association of entrepreneurs' associations. And now she's going to be running these books and controlling property, so employers are going to control themselves. Well, they can't do that. So why the association why the Croatian master chamber? Why not the society of journalists. Well, that's also one association of citizens, professional and more journalists working in the media than publishers in the media. This must remain the responsibility of the ministry. 'Cause look what's in there, by the way. Publishers are obliged to submit information to the Ministry about the company, the office name, the establishment of all persons who share. To whom they will have to do so, not to the ministry, but to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. But look this Parliament has ways of controlling, this Parliament can tell the Minister to deliver that information to us, that the Parliament and the public are controlling what they've been sharing in the papers. And if the minister doesn't, then the Parliament may request that the minister be replaced. But the Parliament cannot control the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in this way. He can't. If we move this to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, there is no more public control over it. If this is to exist, then this amendment has been sent rather cunningly. That's pretty clever. But I think the reason is much more effective. To free the minister from part of his worry. And because the minister probably said get me out of the ministry so I don't even work for the media, because now I'm here after a new structure and environmental protection I don't know what I'm not. And get the media out of my way. But I'm sorry the minister fought to be a minister. He went to the election race to be a minister, so now that he's elected, let him do the job he's in charge of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10487	Thank you. A representative of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10488	Let me, Mr. Representative, just to remove one incorrect quote, you've claimed that we've thrown the software base out of the text of the law and you've forgotten it from the dictionary. I'd point out exactly if it was the other way around. Namely, the conscience clause that you said was deleted is described in Article 26(2), I would not now read about it because of others. But in any case, you'll find that when you change the programming base of all the rights you've mentioned. And as for the protection of the source of information, I would recommend that you take a look at the recommendation of the European Recommendation R7. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10489	Thank you very much. And now she has the word of Mrs. Jelena Pavicicević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10490	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Since this proposal is the final draft law which is now before us once adopted in this high house, as we know for formal reasons, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has abolished this existing law because it has not been adopted by qualified majority of all MPs. A good part of today's presentations and by the promoters on behalf of clubs, and even in the individual debates now, that is, we have had the opportunity to hear, but it seems in fact that this repetition of the repetition that we have now had, and because of the amendment of the Government, it is very welcome and it has shown in fact what is very popular in the theory of literature, which is that in fact every new reading is also carrying a new interpretation, and so today we have had the opportunity to see a whole new interpretation of this proposal of the media law, especially because the government has completed it with amendments that shed a completely different light on the very final draft of the law. I think we should nevertheless use the fact that this law is in front of the Croatian Parliament in a positive sense as a critical reference to the provisions of the law itself, but also as a contribution to the construction of true public media. So let me actually get a couple of picturesque observations. Today we have a greater opportunity to hear about the importance of the title and in the consciousness of each and every subtitle in the consciousness of each reading. For the formation of titles and subtitles, the editor is responsible, and the titles and subtitles provide information on the text that follows and regardless of the content of the text is contrary to the title, the reader usually concludes on the basis of the bomber titles. However, it is often the case that the titles, therefore, for which the editor-in-chief is responsible, end with the questionnaire that the editor-in-chief often absorbs even though the title and text that follows actually convey the diametrically opposite contents. It seems, in fact, that public information is becoming increasingly arbitrary, that it is becoming increasingly rare to encourage the tolerance and culture of dialogue, and that in fact it is becoming less and less encouraging to promote the values of the rule of law and social state, and that I find it unacceptable that such a proposal of law is further suited to such a situation. One of the particular problems that this media law is dealing with is I certainly think you'll all agree, treating speech with hate. As much as we talk about the need to prevent hate speech from being sanctioned, the fact is that it is actually present in every media and that its presence does not have to be explicit. The hate speech can be delayed through the media that we watch, listen or read, so not only with direct expression but also indirectly with what we have failed to say. Enmity and intolerance dominate, and the media we all know should especially work to prevent these phenomena. This law only determines what is desirable, what unwanted behavior. In fact, one article is treated desirablely, and another article is treated with unwanted behavior. When the law is broken, we are then expected to have the right sanctions that are treated only in 22 articles of this bill through the institutions of correction and response. It is quite inadmissible, in fact, that in hate speech, by encouraging racial, sexual, religious, national and cultural discrimination, they also serve to achieve their goal and those media that are partly financed from the state budget, as well as from the budget of local self-government units. This is what I find inadmissible and the competent ministry should deny financial support to these media who deliberately abuse their media space by insulting and demeaning individuals because of various religious, national or political views. For this very reason, I also report to this debate on my colleague, Stazić, on Articles 12 and 13 that are truly unsettled, who treat only the Ministry's obligation, i.e. now the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, to issue a certificate within three days of the date of receipt of the application of a press register held in the competent ministry or in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. However, if the publisher confirms, determines, publishes and publishes his software content, on the basis of which every publisher's obligation is, and should be, so to speak, the question should be asked what if this content is unacceptable and in light of this law when it is adopted, what if the content is unacceptable and illegal, i.e. the programme basis. What if there's a publisher who thinks he's going to apply for that request, so he's going to sign up for the skinheads magazine "Wanzin". Whether or not the Ministry will issue a confirmation of what might actually be concluded pursuant to Article 12(5), so that the competent ministry must not refuse to issue a certificate of application if the application contains all the information contained in the previous paragraphs, so in principle such a journal of such an implementation could indeed be confirmed. Of course, the amended amendments to the Government, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce would have taken over the power of the Ministry of Culture, indeed quite unwarrantedly speaking about it by fellow Stazic, and from what you said, Mr. Secretary of State, I dare say that instead of fixing the text of the law with the amendments that the public protects against the emergence of the media of a problematic programming base, the Government actually proposes to remove its amendments as a key element in the formation, but also further functioning of the media, as well as the media and publishers on the one hand and journalists on the other. It seems to me, in fact, that this valve that you've determined about the programming base is actually one of the elements that should have been repeated more and more often in the bill itself, not to be removed from those places that you consider to be excessive here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10491	Thank you. Ms. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10492	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm actually very pleased that we have the text of this law in front of us and in most of that text it's good even more than that. I think it should be mentioned specifically in this debate that he has now come a pretty long way, a pretty good real democratic procedure to prepare the text itself. For a full year and a half, the Croatian public, a professional, interesting, political debate on this law. It's also a good thing there weren't too much tension in these discussions. It is good that in the public it was clearly recognised where some interests may cross the line of interest, individual interests cross the line of national interests in relation to issues of media editing, and with regard to faster and better quality development of democracy and democratic values in Croatian society. It is very good in this text of the law that it does not slave to the findings, recommendations or commands of Europe or developed European countries, as it is very good that this text is very much based on these recommendations. I particularly appreciate in this text that it offers solutions in many respects that are consistent with democratic standards and standards of European Union countries, but are also specific enough to protect, develop and support the development of pluralism, media pluralism in the Republic of Croatia, the development of media markets in the Republic of Croatia, and thus develop with one specific form of entrepreneurship in Croatia, publishing entrepreneurship. Normally this last one will depend on many things and on the final solution in Article 37 of this Law, which has been discussed in this debate and in previous discussions. I am particularly pleased that we, sitting on this side, and others sitting in this House, can say that we are consistent in representing the position and protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to media space. I say these solutions based on a very broad debate we advocated in the previous year, these same solutions today come as a proposal for a completely different political option and government, we also advocate today because we firmly believe that they are good for achieving the ultimate goal. All our remarks that have been made, some of them will be here and I will repeat, we will repeat and repeat because we hold that they are crucial, again and again, without any special claim that they will obey us, but we will still repeat them because the consequences of some of these provisions, regardless of what little is in this Law, can be fatal and may be bad and may reverse something that we are fully promoting. Two key things I want to stress even though they're mentioned here. The first refers to maximising the threshold of the entrepreneurial concentration in the field of publishing. There is a personal menu and I have closely monitored the development of this norm in the proposal for a vague situation. In the first text that the Government put under discussion, there was no restriction, the provision of the previous Law was completely omitted and everything was transferred exclusively to the regulatory framework governing competition. With the development of events, meaning some suggestions, because in this debate that was conducted, absolutely all of them, regardless of what options they came from, have advocated that the pluralism of the media space must be protected, the government accepts this suggestion and then moves to another extreme. Radically maxes the threshold to 40%. I have heard here today a variety of debates compared to that threshold, however, one thing that has been mentioned here is incorrect. There is no unique solution anywhere in Europe, and the fact is that each country defines, in accordance with its terms, what is the limit, which could potentially endanger pluralism of the media. Some are talking about preventing the monopoly. I don't want at this point, and I don't want this provision to be the one that's going to prevent the monopoly, for that we have other laws, what's important we have to protect pluralism of media space, freedom, diversity and pluralism. But this must not be the reason why, because of some of our perhaps paranoia or some false information about how it's defined in the world, we move to another extreme and then stop the development of entrepreneurship in the field of publishing, and on the other hand, we will not, in any better way, provide more pluralism in the media space than if we introduce a norm that will be more acceptable to the development of entrepreneurship. If we do not listen enough to the possible consequences and all those who warn us about this in a particular life, some of them are possible examples but it is not the first and last mentioned in a particular life, serious problems could arise, the problems of the government, the problems of the state, and then it means to all of us who have some obligation to politically confirm the frameworks in which companies will not fail to develop entrepreneurship, in which the number of employees will increase either in the press or in some other professions that are related to publishing and media and to pluralism of the media. This is our warning and we'll see what the final decision will be. I am sorry that I do not seem to be able to rob myself of this impression that neither the Minister of Resoluteness nor the Prime Minister of Government has given sufficient attention to this extremely important, not so politically attractive but extremely important law, which is important for the final goal of bringing Croatia closer to the European Union, for the important purpose of the development of democracy and pluralism in Croatia, an important goal and for the development of political freedoms, and I would say political scenes other than the Secretary of State to whom I am due recognition because it seems to me that the only one in the government structure has put the burden of this Law, and it seems to me that it shows high sensitivity, too, and I think that even now, before the Prime Minister of the Law is passed, I should, because of some of these key provisions, be a little more concerned with this Act. And I certainly support and insist I will ask, we have made these amendments that the programming basis which may not be the most crucial part of this Law, but it is not certain that the surplus remains in the texts as it is in the original proposal and not as it is cast out in the amendments that came on time but at the last minute, so that perhaps as little as possible we can discuss them. Here are the final decisions that will probably depend on my decision on how I will vote on this law, and it would be a shame not to get a consensus in this House because of some remarks, which would be a democratic step and a good step for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10493	Thank you. Let's welcome the students of the Hotel-Tourist School from Zagreb who are here in our Parliament. Mr. Representative Slaven Letica is on his way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10494	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President Bebic. One half minute or a minute, I will dedicate, I have a civil commitment yesterday in Strasbourg with our prime minister, and I think I am obliged to meet both parliamentary representatives and representatives and the public with his brilliant performance, if... criticises, some of whom have been approached by the old parliamentarians afterwards and said that it was one of the best performances of one of the Prime Ministers in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, after which I told him that I would say it but not think about it because there are serious problems that cannot be discussed at such forums. Now a few things I would like to say about here, I know the journalists, editors, owners, the whole media scene, and I have to say that I was a little amazed at the comeback of Katarina Fuček who has no good insight into this world, who is very interesting, controversial, who suspected Mr. Pera Kovacevic's motivation, who spoke there on behalf of the HSP Club, wanting to say that the HSP club in some way advocated the views or interests of one of the chargers if I understood it well. That's certainly not true. This is about a lot more serious stuff. And so, by the way, the other thing I want to say, I have here, in front of me, a very good empirical study that has been done by the OSCE in eight countries just compared to the concentration, i.e. at the maximum threshold of the publishing and ownership stake in eight European countries. There is no claim by Joza Rados that after some European thresholds that are 40%, they are oscillating from, say, the Finnish experience, where two publishers control over 80% of the daily load and the weekly load to the Norwegian example where practically one publisher controls less of the entire trinity. In this respect, the OESS’s public fence in relation to the imputed claim that it wanted to influence the privatisation of Free Dalmatia or that it suggested to the legislator some concrete percentage is simply on the trail of the report, which shows that there are no rules in Europe. What is very important to us is the specific case of Free Dalmatia, but even more serious case of media colonialism, which is exposed to the whole world, Central and Eastern Europe, where foreign owners first fell into print, and in electronic media, and there is general tendency, domination in this area. When it comes to Croatia, the specificities of the Croatian media market are related to the related languages. And for this reason, when observing Croatia, Croatian media, political, cultural and regional interests must be observed, including security interest in the wider area. Namely, the Croatian literary language is relatively well understood in Bosnia and Herzegovina, both in Serbia and Montenegro. And because of that if we want to ensure some interests that we have some type of influence, not to say identical or cultural domination in that wider space, then it would be good to keep the existing provisions on maximum concentration, i.e.. before privatising that provision to be 40%, because it is in the Croatian national interest. Otherwise, it will happen in the near future, that it may happen, that, say, Free Dalmatia comes out on a Cyrillic and is owned by Belgrade. So it's not an exaggeration, it's a real possibility. As regards the very media market in Croatia, it is closest to Finland's experience, and it is a valuable experience where there is a very wide, rich and growing beauty of regional, local, urban and other presses, and this should also be preserved in Croatia, and that factor should also be taken into account in that case. As for some specific provisions in the bill, which I personally consider very high-quality, I would have one proposal in relation to the advertising system and the restrictions on advertising rights, I did not understand, why should medicines and medical procedures not be advertised, which are only available through medical prescriptions? This will be a completely incomprehensible provision to all doctors, for in these advertisings, if they are true and correct, an educational aspect can be hidden. What I should certainly forbid, advertising is the medical services that are now reigning in the daily media, and everyone... who promises to have hyperoptimal messages in relation to therapeutic procedures. This is a fundamental problem and in Croatia, the tradition of advertising until recently practically until the period of communism has become strict controls from the Croatian Medical Society that have loosened and you can practically today publicly propagate the installation of an artificial hip without stating what you have to say if you advertise in the United States all the risks, all the pains, all the troubles and whatever you want to do about it. The last thing I would like to say is about the subpena proposed in Article 30. It is indeed a major precedent, so it is a violation of the really acquired right of journalists who sometimes could be misused to protect the source of information. The amendments to the HSP Club have already been made. This concrete solution may even be motivated by the Gotovina case and a published interview. However, you must know that neither Carla Del Ponte nor The Hague tribunal dared to give the subsidy in a concrete sense to Josip Jovic as then chief editor of the Free Dalmatia, who integratedly announced the testimony of the protected witness to the current president of the Republic, because this is a prejudicial issue. In particular, it is quite broadly defined in relation to the point of Article 3(3), which is defined very broadly and with, the subpena could practically relate from the publication of some non-lasable, pornographic content to the content that threatens national security. So, I think, in a particular case, when it comes to Free Dalmatia, we must not, like the owls, stick our head in the sand, so this law will have direct implications in relation to the privatisation of the Free Dalmatia that will go bankrupt in 3, 4 or 6 months, that's the first factor. The second factor, I personally spoke to the president of the Press Society who has no position on it. The publishers don't want to have a position on it, and the Free Dalmatia journalists are just interested in surviving. And that if the state does not allow their privatisation and development in this wider regional context of the media presence both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the perspective, and in Serbia-Montenegro, in order to avoid the reverse processes must offer something. The Vjesnik and Free Dalmatia case as state-run expensive media shows that this must be spoken in a transparent manner. And the last thing small about conflict of interest in journalism. It would be good to determine only one small article that would instruct publishers and professional associations to regulate the problem. Because the main problem of journalists today is the high pressure of advertisers and the domination of advertisers. Even pressure from the secret service of party politicians has been reduced. However, if a major advertiser, and such is in Croatia 5.6, puts pressure on both owners and editors, this journalist and newspaper will not publish a scandalal privatisation in HT in INA, Privredj, Zagrebačka, any other bank, because these advertisers form a large substitial part of both the income and profits of these large publishing houses.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10495	Thank you very much. And now Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10496	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10497	I'm sorry, it's just, here's my apology. I overlooked that there was one correction to the incorrect assumption. So I apologize. Mrs. Katarina Fuček has a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10498	I want to correct Mr. Letica's incorrect claim. That I misunderstood Mr Kovacevic, who explained the proposal on behalf of HSP. In fact, when I talked about the possible concentration allowed, I brought out the opinions that appeared in public, and also on the committees on that proposal that, that it should be arranged and allowed to concentrate more than 40%, if the public interest is greater than that. That's what I was talking about. Which means that I also referred to Mr Cain's debate on behalf of the IDS Club as an explanation of the proposal that, that the media also possessed real political power. I said that the amendments that have just arrived with such an HSP proposal are likely to be of interest to certain pressures, too. Why would HSP, in that sense, be excluded from it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10499	All right, you're right. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10500	Article 209(2) is replaced by the following: How does she know what we're thinking and we're "the real ones" never using those methods she's talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10501	All right, you gave your opinion. Let's move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10502	Thank you again, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, one logical question arises whether we would be discussing this law at all if it hadn't happened in the last Parliament's assembly one foul when we passed this law by the wrong majority. This was not good because it was shown even though it was a warning that democracy was being raped in this way and that such things should be where and where more carefully and the laws and Constitution of the Republic of Croatia should be respected, which we finally brought ourselves. And how can we expect the seriousness of the public if we act on our own a few times by passing laws that then fall on the Constitutional Court because of what they've been passed in the wrong way. If you were even more prone to a come almost and autocinism then we could say that almost one constant of this law is that Mr Antolovic defends him as well. Then he seemed to me assistant minister, today he's secretary of state and our behavior against that law is very interesting. Then the opposition, today's opposition was against the law and the current opposition, and then the position was to pass the law. The question arises whether it is truly wise for our relationship with certain laws to depend on whether we behave or not. I don't think that's good. So it turns out that we're ignoring actually the measure of things, that we're not interested in content, we're simply asking whether we can or can't control it. When we can't control them, then we're against the Priors and when we're able to control them, then we're against what we've been up to recently. And yet this shows one state of mind, that we live in a pre-political time, and that these processes of democratisation and normalization of relations in our society are still more our desire than this reality and discussion of this law best confirms or disproves all those who think that we really have come a long way of democratisation successfully. I'm afraid we're still gonna have to go to the correctional exams. Furthermore, this law as well as then is, I think that's what fellow Pupovac referred to that fact, shows that we are still prisoners of an old paradigm. Obviously, many of our thoughts of those people who write laws are below this civilization level, that many things happen in this world on the agenda of the media and that we are in some way almost not moving away from Ljudevita Gai and the 19th century and the early 20th century and that less all of our legal solutions, the regulation actually refers to that area. And it is good that in this area we show some sensitivity and that we are talking about human rights, minority rights, the right to sexual orientation and a whole series of these new generational human rights we are introducing but let's say again we forget one whole world, one segment that has remained unaffected and which is not any legal solution, no legislative regulation has included. We think it's bad for the simple reason that here, in some ways, where we prescribe and show it to our European democratic face, we are actually allowing these unwanted consequences to pass without regulation in another segment. Thus, the world of the Internet in no way has any legal solution from this text covered quite extensively. And I'm really afraid that this legal solution is also a single-term solution and that we will be faced very quickly just before the pressure of what's going on in the world that we won't be able to ignore that we're going to have to regulate it too. Here, you have one banal example that Croatian television did not receive permission to transfer the struggle of our fellow parliamentary representative. Go to the Internet only and you can look at this fight without any major problems and it shows that today simply can't exist and there is no category of something that would be a secret or that I don't know remains hidden from the eyes of the public. And that's why it's also my biggest remark to people who wrote this old new law that actually stays buried in a paradigm that I'm afraid we're dealing with some of our problems, which is that it's mostly about this newspaper and very little or almost nothing by television and very little or almost nothing about the new kind of media. And I'm afraid that if we don't deal with it in the right way, we're going to have laws that are going to be partial and half-way and that actually won't solve the problem. But it also seems to me that the issue of ownership, the problem of ownership, the problem of ownership structure, is also hoped for by a whole series of questions. We're actually just talking about it in principle. This property structure is a story that has been repeated for ten years and that neither the public nor us as parliamentary representatives actually know what we're talking about because the ownership structure of less of all the media in Croatia is actually completely hidden and it's only really more indicative of it. Some have said here that a good part of this property is that it is not domestic, that our media is in the hands of foreigners and yet if we want to talk about some of these old paradigms then the Phite still there in the early 19th century said that who is ruling the signs that this government and people and obviously somewhere here we actually have now touched the essence of this law and this is the problem of concentration. I have to say that all of these terms like public interest, that it's actually very vague, are always important who defines it. For someone of public interest, it doesn't have to have that dimension at all. And I'm afraid the whole story actually stopped at our vague relationship with the monopolies, so somewhere monopolies fit us, somewhere else they don't suit us, and here it's actually in the game, obviously, "Free Dalmatia." That dilemma between bankruptcy or concentration or substitution and concentration of another power, I think it's actually the right question, and in some ways we have to have a clear answer to it. I can truly believe that the paper that has been published recently and over 100,000 copies, for which there are an entire region and what would be said and beyond, is emotionally and in many other ways related that it really cannot be brought into a position to come under bankruptcy. But on the other hand, it's also very important who controls this medium. And now if you avoid defining that public interest, then actually state i.e. Government, i.e. read and then the ruling structure tries to actually substitute and achieve influence and cover this media space in a way to contaminate it with its ideology, its system of values and thus actually achieve this political influence, control and in another more subtle way. I think that's actually the real problem and that all these improvements that the secretary of state told us about that they're actually just staying on, I mean, I'm saying that Article 2 has listed certain definitions. I'm afraid the definitions don't live. It's not bad to have clear definitions and better definitions, but I think the problem is hidden on one completely different terrain, and we need to be pretty clear about that. Although my appeal would actually be, and so I was about to begin to question these sensibilities for the whole series, I say, a new generation of these human, civil rights, to really protect them and that no one dares to question them anymore and that we are clearly promoting them and that this is indeed a consensus with the position of this Parliament. It must be our priority, and that's good, but we also have to bear in mind that this, that their violation can be otherwise defined and is not regulated, put into question, on the other hand, that this versus monopolies, according to the concentration, we have an attitude that does not depend on whether we're participating this power at this moment, or whether we're controlling power or we're just actually a position. As long as we behave like this, I'm afraid there will be no great media happiness in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10503	Thank you. It is next to the respected representative of Jagoda Majska-Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10504	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Representative Letica mentioned the standard Croatian language here. I'm glad he mentioned it, although in a context I wouldn't talk about, namely, he mentioned it in the context of possibly Cyrillic, if I understood correctly, the variants of Free Dalmatia or any other list. I would, however, speak about the Croatian standard language in the context of this new law, although it does not speak about it. He can't speak because it's not in the nature of the law to deal with language. But in the nature of the law of everyone and this one, it is that it deals with law, and how does this Media Act deal with the rights of both publishers and journalists, I would ask myself what is with the right of readers in a good standard Croatian language? I'm saying this because here we are full of freedom, protection of ownership relations, pluralism of opinion, but I wonder what is wrong with protecting readers from illiteracy, from miswritten or spoken information, because that is also the right to rights, good, useful, superfluous and true information. That's what the law, of course, doesn't talk about. That should be discussed by editors and journalists, or at least think about it, in order to protect that final consumer, therefore, reader. Legislative cannot, at least this one, deal with the question of language, but perhaps we could and I think it is our duty, this place, to say something about quality in the service of truth. And the quality in this case, in these examples that I'm talking about, is closely related to correct and accurate information. Because what the reader can expect or conclude if almost daily it is written to him, whether in electronic media they serve false names, is spoken entirely wrong, or is written so. A lot of journalists don't even know the most basic alphabet of grammar, syntax, it's unfortunately a general phenomenon that probably draws roots from education, from education, from general education, but it's the fact that it needs to be accounted for. Because if we understood this proposal of the Media Law, I was also talking about it on the board, that he was on his way to regulate relations between the media and citizens, in order to finally open up and be two-way, that the well-being of both, then I think about quality, and especially about media literacy should be talked about. On the other hand, it seems to me that what will certainly be on the benefit of the reader, I am speaking first of all about them now, is finally a defined right of correction, to answer, therefore, to full information if anything is damaged. I would just like to remind here those who know and tell those who do not know, the information of the Croatian Helsinki Committee is for the past year 9 hundred unpublished corrections of citizens. It's a devastating fact, it's actually a catastrophic, catastrophic indicator of the situation in our media in the past year. If this law that we're discussing today is such an anomaly, I'd say deviation, correct, at least somewhat, that might be the most we'll do in those declared principles and freedoms, and protection, and pluralism, etc., etc. Because staying only declarative on those fine words and on those beautiful thoughts, and not to do anything, or not to see in practice the result, remains a dead letter on paper, which I really hope this law will not remain so. And I would just read more if I had made an amendment, nomotechnical compliance with Article 19 of the envisaged law. The amendment reads: "Article 59(1) of the wording of the body of the "state administration" is replaced by the words "the competent state body". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10505	Thank you. We finished this morning's session. Continuation is at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10506	My colleagues and colleagues continue with the session. Dear Representative Mato Brletić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10507	... The Decocrat Center considers the Media Act very important. [[Specially enabled.]] For this reason, Mrs Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the DC, put in the procedure of the Media Law in the last term of 2003. Newspapers meet the primary human need, and that is the need for information. The basic wing of journalism has always been that good information marks power because one who knows more can. We consider this law very important and important because in its adoption we will act on further development of the media in Croatia, their diversity and thus making it more objective to transfer information. A quality Media Act requires us and the European Union. We believe that privacy should be better defined. More specifically, it's better defined when it's allowed to harm the right to privacy. It should be prescribed that court disputes on the publication of the correction are settled by emergency procedure. What DC suggested in his proposal for media law. It should be defined that the media publisher is required in an appropriate manner at the beginning of the calendar year or at least once every year to inform the public of the programme basis, i.e. the basic editorial orientation, in particular when it comes to general information, ownership structure, financing and financial results of the media. These other facts are needed in order for the public to be able to judge the value of carrying out information, ideas, opinions. Should this Law define the rights and obligations of part-time partners in the media. Almost every media house has part-time associates working for that media house. Although doing the job of journalists works more than average working hours employed by employees in other dams. Honoraries have almost no right to social, health, pension. The DC supports the state's commitment decision to promote pluralism, media diversity, the state should encourage development,... and take active measures in favour of pluralism, i.e. the diversity of the media. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I, as Parliament's representative of DC, will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10508	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10509	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. My opinion is that the media in Croatia played one of the key roles in democratisation of Croatia's political space which is not necessarily trained or used to pluralism or democracy or to free media. That's why I think we're obliged to give a great deal of attention to this law. And I think he's not bad at all. It's pretty much said in the morning how bad it was with what was proposed in the last session, how much new but expensive it really is, that Law is really not bad, and I think it could be voted by consensus. Here a few things have proved questionable and I would like as here a representative who from Split said the same few words about "Free Dalmatia", is it certain that each of us from Dalmatia in some way is bound perhaps more than other citizens and for the fate of "Free Dalmatia" and I am one of those who is convinced that we should allow everything to be "Free Dalmatia" to be privatized as soon as possible. And it seems to me that this change that has followed around limiting the concentration of ownership and that's the question of whether 40% before the new acquisition or after, I think it would be good to accept that formulation that was in the original proposal because indeed someone has already said, you can't if that's the intention, if it's said, no one is for it, that someone has a monopoly over the media space, I don't think there's anyone here who thinks so. But you can't prevent a single quality print, either daily, either weekly or monthly if it's so high-quality, let's say it takes 80, 905 media spaces if it's so high-quality that most Croatian citizens just buy it because there's not a lot of those who are willing to buy more newspapers about daily newspapers because there's not that much money. So, in some ways, what is now proposed, what is now proposed, can be said to might also affect the reduction of competition, or to allow competition in the media space. Someone also mentioned before there were other bidders. The truth is that there were other bidders, but the bidder that's been spoken of here gave the best offer, and what's very important, he guaranteed that in the next five years he would not fire a single worker of "Free Dalmatia". That is why I am thinking, and as far as I have seen the last days about what is written and what is said in the media, OSCE experts have not insisted on this formulation which is now in the proposal, therefore, and that formulation from earlier would satisfy OSCE experts and would in no way mean that someone advocates the monopoly position of anyone in Croatia within the media area and we would help "Free Dalmatia" to privatise itself very quickly and ultimately to enter into it the money that is necessary and into the new rotation, etc., to catch a step with other newspapers, not by its quality, because it has some other things. That's why I'm in favour, so for that old suggestion that whoever hasn't already achieved 40% can be a potential buyer of some here's a newspaper like "Free Dalmatia". The other thing, is the same thing as that former proposal and these in a similar way or the same way they treated it. It is, this discovery of a source of information I think we should be careful not to go into space forcing journalists to reveal their informers, not to enter a space that will, in a well-written law, introduce those restrictions that would then bring it below the level that is desirable to preserve its European quality. As for compensation for this kind of pain or that kind of pain, it's no secret that our citizens are very sensitive to mental pain and that we are one of the more mental societies in the matter of compensation. And I agree that not every media house or every newspaper or any electronic media in the same way is in a position to defile someone when they experience severe spiritual pain and to materially recover. So I agree that this range is welcome in the sense that each cannot be struck in the same way by the same punishment when it is proved to be defamatory and so on. But the same thing should be warned not to abuse that asset either, so that whenever we do, when we know that it would destroy someone's great compensation to apply it as a sledgehammer with which we're going to kill someone in the media space just because they object to us. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10510	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10511	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, when we mention the laws in the Croatian Parliament, we often call for Europe, many laws in the Croatian Parliament and on the European Member States, those who intend to be members of the European Union, so here I will remind Croatia which has recently received a positive view of entering the European Union and as one Croatia that is a spirit of the European country, and I hope that it will soon become a formal European country in a year or two to think about something as well as many other European countries that have a large number, or their people beyond its borders. I, as yesterday, immediately noticed the lack of this immigration law on the Committee on Immigration, and it is contained in Article 5(4). Article 5 of the State's obligations to promote pluralism and diversity of media. Normally this Article 5 is of great importance. Gentlemen, on behalf of the promoter in paragraph 4, you have scrupulously dealt with what I resented to you yesterday, and I am telling you this time and I will quote Article 5, paragraph 4, and it reads: “Achieving the right to public information and to inform members of Croatian national minorities and communities in, national minorities and communities abroad.” I would accept this point that it remains this way that it happened more if we count the third generation in European countries unfortunately there is already a fourth, 50% of the Croatian population living in the country, 50% outside the country. If we read the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Articles 10 and 1 and 2 he tells us something else to discuss everything that applies to Croats outside the country, not only to the Croatian national minority, Croatian emigration but to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Vojvodina, Kosovo, Croats wherever they are. And it's primarily for me to inform these people. And that they do not care for Croatian people living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia to be well informed and not interested in their country I have just come from the Croatian Emigrant Queen from the promotion of the book “Ilegally via the Alps to South America”. I told this Mr Hustic that you still lacked just one word and a return to the Republic of Croatia, or three words. Croatians living outside its borders want to be informed and informed through media, through means of public communication both to the electronic and the media, to the written media. I will now tell you only one example of the Croatica study, Mr. Joza Vrličak, who was not born in Croatia, he struggles in every way so that at least in Argentina he can get the right information about how many Croatian people live, so on the Internet he came to one data that has not yet completed up to 152 thousand Croatian people by last names living in Argentina, means times 3. It is only one part of the Croatian people, the Croatian public, that part of the Croatian extra-domestic state that we would have had well informed as a mother country, so that I am no longer, I have written this amendment which I have already sent and I hope that it will be accepted, and it reads: "Article 5, paragraph 2 is amended and the 2nd indent is deleted and the new one that reads: "Achieving the right to public information and to inform Croatian emigration, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatian national minorities in European countries." I've already said the argument, and I won't repeat it. Something that needs to be talked about, I hope that's what we'll talk about when the law comes, about HRT. It is hard for me to talk here about, about publishers and newspapers that are late for a few days to Croatian people who live not in overseas but in European countries. I can't object to you because you're not in charge of it, nor are you in charge of it. But every law and media law must be the basis of something we always say about Croatian out-of-homeness has the right to good information. However, I hope, after accepting this amendment, that it will be elaborated and that we will achieve what we think about Croatian emigration and what we think through information or through the media. My second article, which I will briefly refer to, is article 16. This, on this article 16, I will quote it again, has been mentioned several times today: “The media is obliged to respect privacy, dignity, reputation, and honor of citizens, especially children, young people, and families. The publication of information which reveals the identity of the child shall be prohibited if this endangers the welfare of the child." We talked a lot about this when we had a report on the children's attorneys, and I hope that all the remarks we've said to the D.A. and to you gentlemen from the media that every man has the right to privacy, especially those who are powerless, we have to protect. However, I can see that this will not go so easily in Croatia because even today when you read the newspaper, you will see the mention of two girls who are often mentioned in this Croatian Assembly and even the current questions about their fate and so on. Here are their names mentioned today. I hope that both gentlemen and journalists and, and, and everyone who is in charge of the media will keep their privacy, that they will finally stop talking about people because every person has the right to privacy, so I will give you another proposal besides what I recently said. Often the means of public communication are asked for help for the persons concerned, for a serious operation or anything else, so here if we want to help someone, let's keep his name and name. If we want to help him, we can help him to protect his privacy, his name, and his name. Then it's a real help. Then it's humanitarian aid. Then it's the help that's human, not the one we get political points at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10512	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10513	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The necessity of the legal regulatory media area is also evident and my support for this Bill proposal, however, I would very briefly refer to Article 5 which speaks of the state's obligations to promote pluralism and diversity of the media. As far as I'm concerned with this finding, the preservation of Croatian national and cultural identity is also a religious identity because it would not mind as if it were written for others, one, religious identities in Croatia, but would refer specifically to this last paragraph that says: The launch of new printed media, so that the Republic of Croatia encourages or manages to care and, and programically encourages the launch of new press media, printed media, especially local and non-profit media, and the media of NGOs. I would stress that it would be necessary to stand here with a word of quality. So what that really means is we talk about info if the info is incorrect it can't be quality. However, accurate information can be unquality. Thus, in any activity quality can be measured, it can be closely monitored, evaluated. It would also be good to have this quality monitoring institution in the media as such, and to actually keep track of the quality of the media and to actually encourage the media. I would also like to refer very briefly to Article 20 which speaks about advertising. Here I support Mr Matu Brletić and his amendment, which says it is not allowed to advertise weapons, ammunition and pyrotechnics. And at the same time, I disagree with my professor. A famous Flight that says that people's competitions should be allowed to advertise, compete with medicines, medical procedures, and so on. For what? Because it's a very slippery area because the product in medicine is both a service and a cure, and a diagnostic and therapeutic and rehabilitation agent and so on. And what happens when it's placed on the market is based on market laws as usual, as we can find on the market. But it comes to those who need it and who do not understand it. So patients aren't experts. And what is offered by services can be in the first row unnecessary. And it can be sometimes harmful. Therefore, it is very necessary to regulate the matter in a good way. And I think it would actually be nice to reconsider if you could do it here and actually reshape this under the 7th article is not allowed to advertise weapons and sterling tobacco and tobacco products, medicines and medical procedures that are only available on the medical prescription. So because this procedure can actually involve several different elements and it would be good to explain it in more detail. That's my contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10514	Thank you. Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10515	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, when I was a journalist, I thought journalists were the most corrupt goods in the world. Luckily, it's not like that. Since I came to politics, I see that Croatian journalists are real angels compared to Croatian politicians. This law that we have here he's relatively good I'll look back at two articles. And I'm going to say because of those two articles, which is why I won't be able to accept this law unless paragraph 6 is expelled in Article 30, and this is the definition of journalists in paragraph 2. We know that freedom never enough, we know that media freedoms never quite enough, believe me, I'm on my own in 27 years of journalism, of which 20 years of professional journalism and how I've experienced it. When we talk about the media first, we ask the question of what is a journalist which is the public what is information. So that we don't theoretically, here in Article 2 of this article is the following for me, very interesting, but I would never accept this definition. So according to the legal proposal, he's a journalist. I'm quoting. NOvinar is a person who does this by stressing, collecting processing by designing or sorting information. The other part of the sentence for me is quite bureaucratic, which has nothing to do with journalism, so I wouldn't even read it. That's where I'd stop. And then Article 30 states, in paragraph 6 here, the gathering of information, and the journalist knows very well how to collect information, says that the court can issue supena. That's what I can't absolutely accept. I'll also say a few practical examples. In 1974 in the United States, the world's largest and most powerful state, economic, political and military, was then destroyed by media freedom by the president of the world's most powerful state. Watergate affair. Since then, there has been nothing more in the world of journalism than it was back then. Let us take only our free Dalmatia and then the honorary editor of the Free Dalmatia of Mr. Josip Jovic, who, despite the threat of justice, and despite the great threats, published transcripts of the testimony then a citizen and today the president of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Stjepan Mesic. Then we saw someone would agree with that someone would not, I personally disagree with his testimony which he then presented. I despise him and it is totally unacceptable to me but the Croatian public, through Free Dalmatia, then learned that a citizen of his own state is talking about his own state. We also have the Ante Gotovina case now. And we have a case of a reporter doing an interview with him. I don't want to go in under what circumstances that interview was made. I don't want to go in there if that interview is credible. I don't want to go in there if that interview is credible, I don't want to get into who's behind it. But I will defend all the forces that at no cost can't force the journalist to reveal his source of information. It's also not convenient to talk about myself, I can tell you that I would never wish anyone what I've been through from the end of '95 to the end of '99 and, in particular, '97 and '98. I was forced to give up a source of information on three occasions. I, as a patriot and patriot, then met the Croatian public, that a crime was happening in Croatia, and that the Croatian state and Croatian peasants were, in particular, Croatian taxpayers, robbed by several hundred million marks. The sick heifers then imported 191 thousand, the note of Bene today has none alive. That's what I warned you about. I had extraordinary sources of information. I didn't want to admit what I did. I let myself be Satanized, and I let myself be thrown out into the street. But I didn't want to issue a source of information. Now, according to this definition, which I find a little funny, but I have my definition. Practically the definition of journalists, which is a journalist. NOvinar is a public witness, a journalist must always testify on behalf of the public. I'd say the journalist has to be a public conscience. How the public will find out what someone is doing if they don't have a reliable source of information. Then I can go back to Article 2 and accept that a journalist is involved in gathering information. But how the journalist will collect some information if he's afraid and the one who gives him the information. Let us take a practical example. If we have a man inside who will be our source of information, and if he tells us about the misdemeanors of one of the members of the government or any other institution of statesmen, if that man is afraid and cares about the edo of truth, morality and justice. How he'll give someone information when he brings them both to prison and to himself and to the one who publishes that information. Therefore, in the name of democracy on behalf of journalism and in the name of morality, this paragraph 6 in Article 30 should be deleted. Because we can't accept this, this is not even a madard in Croatia, but anywhere in the world she can't accept it. We need to encourage investigative journalism. My colleagues and colleagues, would Croatia have been robbed if we had investigative journalism. Would it have happened if we had stimulated journalists to get to know the Croatian public what Croatian politicians do? It would never have happened. When and in any case, you can put in a soup. Only in a situation of direct war danger when anecdote manipulates information and that information would damage the safety of the Republic of Croatia. And never again. Because we understand the one who fears journalists, the one who fears freedom, the one who fears democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10516	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10517	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. There's a lot that's been said about the law today, so I wouldn't talk about it, I'd just get to the things that I've gotten to on both committees and on the Committee on Gender Equality and on the Media Committee. In the first place, these are the amendments that the government has submitted to this law relating to two things, that is to throw out the programme base and the second thing is to transfer competence from the ministry to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. First, I will talk about the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, because I considered it a much bigger problem than the programming base because I felt that by transferring these things from the competent ministry to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, it would simply transfer responsibility to the place where it was wrong and I thought that in that case it would be simply the same if we transferred it to the tourist community. But in a conversation with the gentlemen of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, I was informed that they are already doing certain things that concern the activities of those who are numbered here, in articles 12 to 68 of the owner's structure, financial operations and others, because they are already doing so for the community of publishers and they have established a register so that I am withdrawing the discussion I had on the board, but I am not withdrawing the part where the question was being asked which way the state would control if that law was not implemented. Then the question arises if it is within the competent ministry, then we here in the Parliament can in any way express dissatisfaction with the work of the resolution minister, meaning through impellation or in any other way. We can take some steps towards irregular work, and in case of an economic chamber, we can't do that. The second part relating to the programme basis to be deleted from the law, which is Article 13 where only one part of that article is deleted and deleted from Article 14(4), which speaks of the way of employment between publishers, editors and journalists. I believe that if I agree completely with what Mr. Stazic said, that it must be known before the start of the newspaper, which is their programme orientation, that the journalist who enters that newspaper will know what he will write, will write about nature, about pornography or not know what, and not that the publisher if the owner changes to start writing something that is not his and for which he has not made the contract. I therefore believe that these two things should in any case remain in the law, so regardless of what the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is trained and has the resources to do this because of the control itself, that this should remain a competent ministry, and that this programme basis should remain in the law, and I also support all those amendments brought by the Committees either the Committee on Gender Equality, whether the Committee on Information, Media and Information.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10518	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, Jagoda representative Maja Martincevic, 5 minutes of debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10519	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to advocate on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club for a different way of discussing at this very moment when this Media Act is concerned, I will also tell you why, or perhaps you will understand when I quote you a phonogram from the end of this morning's session, and that part said by my colleague Zlatko Kramarić. The sentence is, "Obviously, many of our thoughts of those who write laws are below this civilization level." If Mr Kramarić, like all of us, is entitled to his opinion, then he certainly does not have the right to qualify, and this is a qualification, and it is right at the moment when we are talking about the law when, as I have already told us this morning in my debate, full of mouth of freedom, protection, pluralism, etc. We have no right to anyone, and at least people who write laws qualify to be below civilization level. We have the right to this opinion, but we do not have the right to qualify anymore because we in the Croatian Democratic Community Club have indeed found no reason for such qualifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10520	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP club, respected representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10521	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government. So the HSP Club has already highlighted in several discussions the quality of this law, but in the 5-minute debate I would like once again on behalf of our party, the club to highlight our main remark which may make it difficult, i.e. to disable the vote of the Croatian party right for this law, that is what my colleague Lončar was saying earlier, that is Article 30(6), which tells the court that it can instruct the journalist to provide information on the source of the published information or information that it intends to publish if it is necessary to protect public interest, and it is particularly important and serious circumstances, etc. etc. Therefore, we hold that the protection of source information is condicio son qua non free journalism. Politicians may like it or not like how journalists write, it can be fought within media circles and intelligence war or intelligence underground war, but it must not be prevented from developing freely its network of informers because it is finally the only way modern journalism can take that role that Croatia has not yet taken, but should be taken in perspective, which should be public conscience, critics of the public and that practically with reliable information to a certain extent and create a Croatian society. We can't get the impression that this is one more time about applying the law to specific cases. Here's Dr. Crescent. The flyer spoke when he spoke in his debate, mentioned the Gotovina case. We cannot be taken from the impression that this is both the case and therefore we have made a proposal for our amendments, and in particular it is important for our 12th amendment, which suggests that Article 30, paragraphs 4 to 7, is deleted with the reason that it is necessary to continue to leave democratically valuable gain, that the journalist is not obliged to give anyone information on the source of the publication of information, and some services are doing their job, so let them come to the information as the journalist came to it. We have a second example, and we had an affair here, which is kind of like, I'd say, and I'd cover it up. There have been attempts to open up also in front of the Justice Party Club and the Committee on National Security and Internal Policy where there has been talk about the opportunities and roles of individual journalists in Croatia and some intelligence action now not to enter that part, but it is the duty and function of the intelligence community to deal with these affairs. But journalists as journalists can't make it impossible for anyone in his fundamental right to access information and that the informant who gave it information is protected. Therefore, we would like to warn the Government that we are inclined to support this law, but with the minimum adoption of the article, our 12th amendment relating to Article 30, where paragraphs 4 to 7 are deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10522	Thank you. Does Secretary of State Jadran Antolovic want it? Yeah. Please give a review.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10523	Let me thank you for your real contribution to the debate and many amendments aimed at improving the text. We will indeed consider all this in accordance with the concept of the law, but also with recommendations and European documents, see which amendments we can accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10524	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10525	Final proposal of the Media Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 87 The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments have been made, and now we have amendments. I ask that State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Mr. Jadran Antolovic. The first amendment was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10526	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10527	He's an integral part of this bill. 2. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10528	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10529	Thank you very much. 3. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10530	The amendment is not accepted in view of the fact that the law does not use the public authority's expression so there is no need to define that definition.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10531	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Kovacevic!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10532	Well, I don't know if there's any need when we've defined it precisely to make it more accessible.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10533	Since the Government does not accept this amendment to the vote. Who's in? He didn't get the votes he needed. 4. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10534	It is not accepted that the definition of the authorisation offered does not constitute a certificate of authenticity which is basically an authorisation and we believe that in law the definition of the day is more complete and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10535	Please, sir, do you have any objections?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10536	Our amendment is far more precise because it determines exactly what authorisation is. The vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10537	The vote. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you very much. He didn't get the votes he needed. 5. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10538	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10539	It's accepted. It's part of the law. Six. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10540	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10541	It's also an integral part. 7. Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10542	It is accepted that the text reads: "The exercise of the right to public information and to inform all Croats beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10543	Are you okay with this modified text? Thank you very much. The integral part of this law in the amended text. 8. The Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10544	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10545	Accepted, component. Nine. Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10546	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10547	It's also an integral part. Ten. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10548	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10549	It's an integral part. 11. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10550	It is not accepted that the previous amendment has not been accepted by the public authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10551	Are you looking for a vote? He's withdrawing the amendment. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10552	I'm not withdrawing the amendment. There's no point in voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10553	But he must either vote or withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10554	Then we vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10555	I'm putting an amendment to a vote that the government doesn't normally accept. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10556	The same is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10557	For the same reasons, the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10558	I put this amendment to a vote that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10559	We accept in part, by accepting part of the amendment relating to paragraph 6 until part of the amendment relating to paragraph 3 and paragraph 7. [[Intruder: Agree.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10560	On behalf of the Committee, it is agreed that this amendment has been adopted in this amended form as explained by the Secretary of State. 14. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10561	It hasn't been accepted from the quotes for days.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10562	Same procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10563	I am putting this amendment to a vote that is otherwise not accepted by the government. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10564	It's not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10565	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10566	This amendment has been withdrawn. 16. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10567	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10568	Accepted, the component of the law. 17. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10569	This amendment is not accepted. It simply cannot be accepted because it is not enough to deny information because it is only classified information, but as the bill says about state or military secrecy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10570	You didn't read it right. He says, "A secret has been established under the law." How does a secret determine itself? In law, we have a state secret, an official secret, a military secret, a business secret. It's accurate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10571	In this case, it can only be military or state secrets.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10572	prejudge. [[Specially enabled.]] You can never know. Simulate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10573	I am putting this amendment to a vote that the government does not normally accept. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 18. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, an integral part of the law. 19. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10574	It is not accepted, since the amendment of the Committee on Human Rights to Article 2 concerning the definition of privacy has already been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10575	Retracted, withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10576	This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is an integral part of the law. The Government of the Republic of 21st, too. 22. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10577	It is not accepted that the government's amendment has already resolved this in a way that the register moves on to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10578	Here you go, Mr. Antun Vujic. On behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10579	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to mention the arguments here, so I'm not going to refer to other amendments any further. This is simply a matter of having been transferred to the Chamber of Commerce by the Ministry of Culture and by all other functions related to the registration of the press and other elements. Especially what I think is completely inappropriate is that this, among other things, is justice and the reason that it will not be able to accuse the state or I don't know who to interfere with in the independence of the press. On the contrary, the state has an obligation to ensure, protect pluralism of media space and respect for the provisions of the law, and this can only be done by the primary body of the state. This is exactly the one... The concern I think is not appropriate and if something like this should be done then it would be more logical to be a Croatian news society than the Chamber of Commerce. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10580	Thank you very much. Does the government stay with them?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10581	It remains for reasons given.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10582	Are you asking for a vote? I put this amendment to a vote that the government does not normally accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the votes he needed. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10583	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10584	Component, Government of the Republic of Croatia, component. 25. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10585	It is not accepted that the programme basis of the media is visible from the very media for the public, so it is not necessary to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10586	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10587	Let me also say here in this place so it doesn't happen again. ... The basis is an integral part of not only the obligation to inform the public about the character of the media but also an integral part of the contract between journalists, editors and employers within the media. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So much has been lost by erasing the programming base not only one supplement in information and reporting but in fact the whole content will not be resolved, but also the issue of journalistic rights will not be resolved when the software is changed and they remain in contracts based on the previous programming base and now they are asked for something else. It is a matter of ensuring the ability to express the conscience of journalists in the media space. And that is why we are explicitly opposed to these subsequent amendments that are erasing... from many, many places where she, where she should be key. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10588	Thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to a vote that the government doesn't normally accept. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Government of the Republic of Croatia 26th component. SDP's Club of Representatives 27.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10589	It is not accepted, since the amendment of the Government has been accepted. In view of the fact that Article 26 provides for the protection of journalists due to changes in the programming base.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10590	On behalf of the club. I put it to a vote, which otherwise the government does not accept this amendment. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Legislative Committee 28.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10591	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10592	It's an integral part. Committee on Gender Equality 29.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10593	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10594	It's part of the law. Committee on Gender Equality No. 30.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10595	It's partially accepted. The first part of the amendment relating to paragraph 7 shall not be accepted in the light of the fact that advertising of illicit, unauthorised advertising with phonogram content raises the question of what is considered... and who's going to arbitration in practice what is and what isn't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] While the second part of the amanman is accepted for the addition of paragraph 8 but with that item 8 reads: "No advertising is allowed in which women and men appear in an offensive or humiliating manner, given the gender or sexual commitment."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10596	Here we will have to, since the board presidents do not have to vote for that part of the amendment that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the required majority. There remains this text that the government has accepted. 31st representative Mate Brletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10597	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10598	It's part of the law. HSP representative club, 32.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10599	It is not accepted that the proposed amendment of the full liability for damage cannot simply be incorporated into this concept of the law because it is written as a component of a different concept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10600	HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10601	First, it's incorrect what Mr. Secretary of State says we are quite different and realistic... responsibility for the damage to go on a range of reckless forms, not to remain this part as it was in monetary forms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't understand how you didn't realize that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10602	We put this amendment to the vote, which is otherwise not accepted by the Government. Thirty-two. HSP counseling club. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 33. Also a club of HSP representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10603	It is not accepted that the conditions for the release of the responsibility for compensation for damages are so elaborated as to prevent the application of certain types of damage. And we believe that the bill makes it more systematic and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10604	In the name of the club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10605	It's incorrect, it's more systematic here and it's better established, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10606	I am putting this amendment No. 33rd to a vote that otherwise the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. 34. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10607	It is not accepted that the provision on procedures for compensation for damages cannot be incorporated into other provisions of the law since it is written in a different way than the laws themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10608	Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10609	I quit because now there's no point.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10610	This amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment 35. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10611	It is not accepted that the issue which is the subject of the amendment, which is a positive opinion, is at least 50 members of the editorial office, a matter which is governed by the media statute.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10612	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club, Mr. Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10613	No, it's not a club, it's a board. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities voted in favour of such an amendment and proposed it for the reason that it is considered that independence of the editorial system is actually one important thing for freedom of the media. No matter what... It is also achieved in a way that one way is to examine how many editors it has, how much it is, how much the editor-in-chiefy agrees with the selection of a specific editor-in-chief. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is why we believe that such a vote within the editorial office is very important for the freedom of the media because otherwise that influence of the owner of the list can be too great. And that's why we put such an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10614	Thank you very much. I am putting this amendment to the Club of Representatives, the Committee of Human Rights, so the Committee on Human Rights and the National Minorities, which the Government does not normally accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. 36. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10615	It is not accepted that it abolishes the obligation of the publishers to conclude the contract before ordering the annexes and to keep records of such contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10616	And you obviously don't know the practice of what the situation is that the media is the ones who cheat on journalists, the work on black and everything else is there.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10617	Let us put to the vote this amendment, which is otherwise not accepted by the Government. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the votes he needed. 37. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10618	It is not accepted that the possibility is abolished, the remaining part of the article which will be needed to protect the sources of information by accepting the other amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10619	On behalf of the Human Rights Committee, here you go, Mr. Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10620	In fact, the problem of protecting the source is the central problem, one of the central problems of this law. Without the protection of the right of the source, it's actually hard to get free journalism, and it can't be arranged in any other way than by law. That is why we are giving, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, asking that the amendment be voted on and, of course, put to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10621	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? He didn't get the votes he needed. ... The Legislative Committee? [[The speaker was subsequently turned on]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10622	In part, the Government accepts the amendment with the wording of paragraph 4 reads: “The State's Attorney's Office may, when necessary, require that the restriction be made in the interests of national security, territorial integrity and health protection to the competent court to order the journalist to provide information on the source of the published information and information it intends to publish.”
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10623	President of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10624	I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10625	Thank you. Then in this modified form it becomes an integral part of the law. 39. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10626	This shall be accepted in part, and that shall only be the erasure of paragraph 5 due to the previously accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10627	A colleague of Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10628	It is obvious that here the values and gains of journalism and democracy in Croatia will be this way... I'm gonna shut it down. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're asking for a vote and we can't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10629	I'm voting on that part of the amendment that's not accepted. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 40. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10630	It shall be accepted in the text of the shares of the publishers carrying out the public information activity, to vote on behalf of the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10631	It's consensual.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10632	Accepted with this change. 41. Vlad, it's becoming an integral part of the law. 42. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10633	It is not accepted that the records on the ownership structure of the publishers should be conducted by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce as it has already been accepted by the government's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10634	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 43. Government, it becomes an integral part of the law. 44. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10635	The information provided on the business of the publishers should not be accepted. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce should be run as accepted by the amendment of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10636	Here you go, colleague Vujić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10637	Because I gave up that... So the information isn't just a commodity and it can't be treated in a way that the Chamber of Commerce is the place where the state so I say makes its public space come true and the papers are being reported so. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on]] This must remain an integral part of the state body. This is one avoidance of commitment by the state and by the government and the competent ministry. Unacceptable completely, and if it should, it would be more logical to alienate it somewhere, then it would be a journalistic, Croatian news society, not a Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10638	A colleague, Vujić?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10639	The vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10640	The vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 45. The club of Representative Libra.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10641	It is not accepted to reduce the unauthorized concentration from 40 to 1/3, even more stringent than the Law has been proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10642	Dear colleague Pavlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10643	We remain with our amendment, therefore, with a fundamental goal of reducing the possibility of monopoly and monopoly of the media, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10644	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 46. A SDP counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10645	It is not accepted that the proposed amendment is not possible to prevent a monopoly on the general information press market.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10646	Dear Representative Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10647	Mr. President, with this amendment of ours, it is possible to prevent a monopoly, but at the same time it allows entrepreneurship to develop in the press. This current bill of law has made one away from the former precisely in the sense that it has left the field of arbitration unseen many possibilities instead of ensuring it in a rather broad way, but in terms of the protection of pluralism of the media. The purpose of the Media Information Act is not to restrain entrepreneurship but to protect pluralism. So here those who need to develop their jobs can't develop them even if they're below 40% of the purchase to say so to other entities but actually fall under one whole other law, and in that field, a field of total arbitration is opened by decisions. It's about deciding if anyone's allowed or not. This is a very bad sign for entrepreneurship and also does not ensure pluralism of the media. To vote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10648	Thank you. Please, who's in favor of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 47. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10649	It is not accepted that an irregular concentration is arranged only in relation to the daily press.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10650	A colleague of Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10651	That, the first thing that matters here is that we just try to save things like the Free Dalmatia case if we have nothing to do with RTH or their publications and they wrote against us. We're saving workers and the bankruptcy of Free Dalmatia. You have an offer that they will be happy RTH to give up, it's 400 million kuna and now there will be a variant that, there will be no more such offers but it can happen that someone for small money will buy it so, I wouldn't be surprised to buy Mr. Ninek from, the question of Mr. Peja Trječević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10652	Are you asking for a vote? Who's up for this amaniac? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 48. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10653	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10654	It becomes an integral part of the law. 49. Governments also become an integral part of the law. Fifty. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10655	It is not accepted since the government's amendment is accepted, and it is contrary to the government's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10656	That's, please vote, yes. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. 51. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10657	It is not accepted that the proposed amendment to the provisions on the right to a correction cannot be incorporated into other provisions of the law as a whole because it is written as a component of a different concept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10658	Thank you very much. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10659	I'm not surprised the future secretary of state unconsistent in consistency means not accepting everything. We were here trying to point out that variant that could happen that the daily papers would have to give 30% of the space for corrections and answers only, and I don't know why you didn't understand that. The vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10660	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 52. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10661	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10662	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 53rd of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10663	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10664	It becomes an integral part of the law. 54.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10665	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10666	It becomes an integral part of the law. 55th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10667	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10668	It becomes an integral part of the law. 56. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10669	It is not accepted that nomotechnical change is proposed and as no previous amendments are not accepted, there is no need for this change either.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10670	A colleague of Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10671	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10672	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 57. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10673	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10674	It becomes an integral part of the law. 58. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10675	It is not accepted that the proposed amendment of the response rights provisions cannot be incorporated into the provisions of the law as a whole because it is written as a component of a different concept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10676	A colleague of Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10677	That the wish could fit in. I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10678	Did you pull it or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10679	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10680	Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn. 59. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10681	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10682	It's part of the law. The 60th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10683	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10684	It becomes an integral part of the law. 61. Strawberries of Mayan?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10685	The same amendment of the Legislative Committee has already been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10686	Consumed. 62. Government. It becomes an integral part of the law. 63. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10687	It is not accepted because the same article accepts the amendment of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10688	The vote. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. 64. Government becomes an integral part of the law. 65. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10689	It is not accepted, given that the same article accepts the amendment of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10690	Consumed. You want a vote. Okay. Here you go. The vote. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. 66. HSP's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10691	It is not accepted because previous amendments have not been accepted, and therefore this nomotechnical change is not necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10692	Logical explanation, and I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10693	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 67 Governments, becoming an integral part of the law. 68 Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10694	It is not accepted since the same amendment has been accepted in the same article, the amendment of the Government to the same article.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10695	Representative Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10696	Mr. President, since this is a farewell amendment from a whole series of amendments related to the Chamber of Commerce and the Competent Ministry. I just have to warn the MPs once more that the Ministry of State is responsible, that's all. The Ministry of Culture very gladly received that it issue certificates on pigs' farms. Then the asparagus and so on. But to waive his obligations, and his duties as a body of the state administration to oversee the enforcement of lawfulness over the media and to ensure the autonomy of the media. So this is now the final amendment that the ruling party is likely to vote on in the direction of what I said was the new interest of the Ministry of Intlure. Thank you very much. I've forgotten snails, I'm adding snails.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10697	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get that farewell majority. 69 club representatives of HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10698	It is not accepted that the proposed nomotechnical change is no longer necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10699	Thank you. 69 withdrawn. 70. HSP's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10700	It is not accepted for the same reasons because the proposed nomotechnical change is not necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10701	Because this final amendment of ours, I really need to realize that by this law, if we bring it in, we're really at risk of freedom of the press and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10702	Excuse me, has the amendment been withdrawn? Retracted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10703	We give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10704	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 71 Governments become a watchful part of the law. 72 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10705	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10706	It becomes an integral part of the law. 73 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10707	It is not accepted since the previous amendments relating to this proposed amendment have not been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10708	Dear Representative Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10709	Mr. President, since this is our last amendment, I'm glad to find something a little different than my colleague before. That we made a step in media legislation, but it's too bad we didn't do 100 percent, but we stopped somewhere at 50%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10710	You're looking for a vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final proposal for a media law, noting that the adoption of the law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs. At least 77 votes in accordance with Articles 226 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure. Who's in favor of this bill? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 84 votes for, 14 against, 2 abstentions, the Media Act in the text has been adopted as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10713	Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. These amendments and additions to the Telecommunications Act that are proposed in the emergency procedure are explained in the following arguments. These amendments, in most articles, bring together a number of terms which are subsequently included in the system of the State Administration, and the essential reasons for the reference of these amendments to the Law in the procedure could be briefly summarised in the following. These amendments provide for amending one of the conditions for the appointment of members of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. This is a condition which currently has 10 years of experience in working in telecommunications, and changes suggest 5 years of experience in telecommunications, which wants to enable the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament, of course, which appoints council members a greater choice between several people. Also, since it is a relatively new branch, the economic branch, the 10-year criterion of experience could satisfy a very small number of people in Croatia, and the possibility of a larger choice is opened, above all between younger people in, as candidates for members of the Telecommunications Agency. Then, very important, the provision is that responsibility is determined in the control of software content that has caused more dilemmas in both the media and the public so far, and more interpretations can be freely said and transferred responsibility. These changes, therefore, clearly define the place of control of the content carried over, inter alia, and telecommunications. It is also possible to carry out a technical examination for certain types of telecommunications services, i.e. the obligation to carry out a technical examination for telecommunications services and activities carried out on the basis of a concession. It shall be possible to issue a temporary permit for the installation and use of a radio station, shall be regulated in a more appropriate manner in the event of a change in the radio frequency already allocated, and shall be more precisely governed by the provisions in obtaining authorisation for the import and placing of radio equipment. Here, these are, in short, the most distinctive features of these changes, and I ask you to respect also the reasons for the urgency of adoption and the ones that we have cited in the most important provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10714	I would like to thank Secretary of State Drazen Wrestle. Do the committee's rapporteurs want a word? The chairman of the Legislative Committee, Mr. Florian Boras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10715	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 10th session held on 27 April, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Telecommunications Act with the Final Proposal for the Law. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal of the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. However, in relation to the final text of the proposal, the Committee points out that a regulation supplementing this Law was added to the new paragraph 3 in Article 121, and this Regulation with the legal force was adopted on 6 November 2003, which means that, within a maximum period of one year, it ceases and enters into force on 6 November 2004. The Committee therefore considers that the same provision should also be incorporated into the Proposal to amend and supplement this Act, and also to conclude that this Regulation does so and ceases to apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10716	Thank you. Does the rapporteur want any other committees? He doesn't want to file an oral report. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. Honorable representative Mate Brletić on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLs, DC. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10717	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Democratic Centre and the Croatian Social Liberal Party club will support the adoption of this legislative proposal. The proposed amendments and additions to the Telecommunications Act are also necessary and urgent to adopt in order to develop the telecommunications market in Croatia, but to establish clearer and more precise legal and sublegal conditions for the implementation and opening of public tenders for the award of concessions for the provision of services in mobile telecommunications networks of the second and third generation, for which the Government agreed in February of this year. The high expectations of mobile telecommunications network service consumers are that not only will the prices of these services be reduced, but that monitoring and through it will be ensured to take more appropriate measures to prevent and eliminate disturbances in the telecommunications market, but also in the provision of telecommunications services. For this reason, we particularly support the harmonisation and addition of the criminal provisions of this Act relating to criminal penalties, and in particular by introducing the possibility to impose additional safeguards by removing computer or other technical equipment in the offence committed by the use of call systems with and without human intervention, fax devices and e-mail in cases of direct promotion. It is essential to protect users of services from unwanted telecommunications, especially from the unwanted better said, unrequested emails that are being suppressed and also to interrupt telecommunications traffic when accessing the Internet. It is obvious that a relatively high penalty of one million kuna could not prevent offenders while more likely to be expected to be able to counter more effectively by subtracting computers with stored data, e-mail addresses, a larger number of recipients of messages. There is no need to talk about damages for users to spread the virus via e-mail. By amending the conditions for the appointment of members of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency relating to the number of years required for working experience in the field of telecommunications, from 10 to 5 years. Which must have candidates for a member of the Agency's Council we absolutely support. This condition is the best indication of the absurdity that is represented by other legal and sublegal acts relating to the establishment of a working relationship as well as the determination of salary levels in state and other administration bodies and self-government. Even in some companies or mostly state-owned. To bind the selection of members of the Agency's Council with a working internship that is intruding before 1999, i.e. before the establishment of the first regulatory body in telecommunications in Croatia, since the first relevant Croatian experience in telecommunications regulation is actually the origin of the first relevant Croatian experience. Of course, however, it is also a requirement for long-term experience and other calls from domestic, legal and economic professions not only unnecessary but also harmful. For the highest professional and specialist professions in the state administration, the threshold of 5 years should be sufficient to acquire and develop the necessary work experience. The domestic, legal and economic professions in the last 10 years have completely changed so that school knowledge and work experience since 10 years ago have no application in current practice. For example, who needs knowledge of the ZUR today needs to be well aware of the Company Act, instead of years of work experience, responsibility for a job well done throughout the vertical... jurisdiction and authority should be developed. We support the precise determination of the conditions relating to software content, data, information that is produced, transmitted or or carried out in the provision of telecommunications services and the supervision of the Ministry of Culture over the legality of the work of the persons who produce, transfer or carry out those content. It is good that it is possible for the Croatian Telecommunications Agency or the legal person authorised by the Council of the Agency to carry out a technical examination for services which do not require the use of radio frequency spectrum but which is an obligation to carry out a technical examination before the conclusion of a concession agreement for the frequency of public telecommunications services using radio frequency spectrum as it is a naturally limited general good. In order to encourage the development of research in tele and radio telecommunications, and to encourage future investment in telecommunications infrastructure, as well as the introduction of new and new... telecommunications services and technology, it is supported to enable the exceptional issue of a temporary permit for the setting up and use of radio setup or radio system for the purpose of market and technical research, research or design, and to do so for a maximum period of 6 months. In order to relieve the burden of the Agency, where it is objectively unable to bear the responsibility for the change of the larger radio frequency allocated to coordinate the use of radio frequencies at international level or for more effective use of radio frequency spectrum, or for potential endangerment of radio navigation services or other security services. It undertakes that the Agency shall take particular account of the costs of the changes it will receive for radio frequency users instead of compensation for actual costs. In order to remove concerns and ambiguities about the import and placing on the market of radio equipment and telecommunications equipment, provisions have been specified on the prior procurement of the Agency’s approval in the case of imports and placing on the market of these equipment which may be made for registered legal and natural persons as well as exemptions relating to certain types of equipment such as equipment for the purposes of radio amateurs, radio and television receivers, on equipment intended for maritime and aviation services exclusively used for the needs of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, police and security of the service of the Republic of Croatia. For all things stated, we will support the adoption of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10718	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Zivko Nenadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10719	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, this law regulates the telecommunications structure and the transmission of information, and clearly programming and other content are regulated by other laws. The Telecommunications Act established the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, which is run by the Council, unfortunately it is not yet formed, but will soon be formed. It's not because before the end of the past government is the same as the mandate of the last government, this one hasn't settled yet, this one we'll soon solve. With these legal amendments, I would say, it becomes clearer, more precise, more applicable, or order is introduced in the application of the Law, both in the award of concessions and in the use of them but also in the application of concessions. For example, Article 2 suggests that a member of the Agency's Council, in addition to high technical, legal and economic sciences, should have, instead of 10 years, 5 years of experience in telecommunications, and we do consider it appropriate and sufficient because this opens up the possibility of young experts full of knowledge, will and energy at first who can contribute more to society, return to the education society but also opens up the possibility of a greater competition and the possibility of a wider choice for a member of the Agency's Council. The 4th article suggests that telecommunications networks can be linked to other countries' telecommunications networks on the basis of the Agency's approval. So far, it's just that I can only be imported on application basis, which means one fax application, and here you are already functioning, and we think this is really good that the agency needs to be approved. In Article 6, the proposal clearly shows and proves that we want to shorten the maneuver to an inefficient administration, for example, when the Agency Council receives a request for concession within 10 days to publish that notice in the National Journal, and then waits 45 days after that if someone else will report for the same frequency area. Under the current Law, the deadline was not at all but only written will be published, which means it could have stood indefinitely and at the mercy of bureaucracy and of course it opened up the possibility that manipulations could also be corruption. Article 7 of the amendment of the law says that the Agency's Council can and must, should carry out a technical review before, and should give a certain deadline for meeting the technical requirements, what does it mean? - that everything needs to be done before, prepared, and then signed the contract. And not sign a contract, then get out of the way and ask if all the conditions are met. Furthermore, in Article 16 of the amendment proposal, it is possible to issue a provisional authorisation, to set up and use a radio station or radio system for the purpose of market or technical examination, research or design. And it's six months longer. Of course, if the appropriate conditions are met. and this simplification is important for market and technological research for non-commercial purposes in telecommunications and radio communications. So far, without these changes, it wasn't possible. Articles 19 and 20 of the amendment of the law, are more specifically elaborated and complemented by penalties for infringements committed under the provisions of this law. So clearly and clearly with the possibility of confiscation of computer and other technical goods. These were, according to us, the most important points in the proposal to amend this Telecommunications Act. We understand that everything is almost impossible to predict and prescribe. Especially when it comes to the technique and regulations related to its regulation, because as we often hear science goes on, but the imagination of playing the rules doesn't lag much behind. That is why, as well as science and imagination, we need to be technically said and and, as soon as possible, we need to act quickly because the speed is a condition for order, and the order is a condition for progress and accession to European standards. For these reasons, we support these proposals, these legislative amendments, because we think they do much to correct this law. The HDZ will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10720	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Let's move on with the debates on behalf of the clubs. Next up, it's HSP Representatives' Club. Dear Representative Tonci Tadic. Here's a colleague of Tadic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10721	Dear Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored gentlemen from the Ministry of the Sea, Transport, Tourism and Development. When today's Telecommunications Act was passed, our Club of Representatives in the previous term found that the law was written in such a way that I would not accidentally harm an existing monopoly in the fixed phone of HT, or existing duopolists in the mobile phone of HT and VIP. The consequence of such a law is the condition in which so-called “the law of the world. ” The fast internet, i.e. ADSL in Croatia, is still much more expensive than in Germany, so to the home state of HT. The fact that the academic research network Carnet in Croatia from the Croatian branch of Deute Telekom, therefore HT has worse working conditions than the German academic internet community in Germany alone. The result is that two mobile networks in Croatia are twice as expensive as in Slovenia and that the general director of one of them even claims that Croatia does not need a third operator, i.e. by thinking that we are so naive in Croatia that we do not see that the third operator would contribute to improving competition. and the final fact that no new fixed telephony concession has yet been called in Croatia, which says that these amendments of the law need to enable competition in the area of telecommunications to lower prices, but also enable the regulatory role of the state and its institutions. And that's the real meaning of this law. The law that is in front of us is actually going in that direction and how it is indeed a very small step away from what the HSP Club would like, we have submitted a whole series of amendments to this law that goes essentially and that I will explain here in short lines. First of all, it's about a key dilemma. Who's actually doing the inspection? Does the Ministry like this work here or is this done by the Croatian Telecommunications Agency? It's a matter of political decision, be careful. If this is going to be done by the ministry, then all of our further objections regarding strengthening the role of the agency fall into the water. But if it's done by the Telecommunications Agency, then it must be strengthened both in terms of... and in terms of punishment. One of the three main tasks of the regulator is to be a police officer on the telecommunications market, he must have the right to seek and receive all information from the operator, the right to carry out inspection and audit, the right to search the space and equipment used in telecommunications. So he must really have full control of the telecommunications market as a regulator. And now it's just a matter of saying political decisions whether it's going to be done by the ministry or by the agency? But that should finally be defined. We believe that, in accordance with practice in the European Union, it must be done by the telecommunications agency and by no means by the ministry. Furthermore, we believe that the agency or the ministry, but certainly a better agency should be the one to impose significant fines. There is no forced fine that is only 500 kuna under the law, but we believe that the amount of fines would have to be far higher, because then those who wish to cause greater damage on the market would be in a far worse position. We believe further that all suppliers of technical equipment in telecommunications for the installation in Croatia worth more than 5m euros would have to start a company in Croatia, or have an authorised representative here, in order to provide local support for their equipment or software solutions, i.e. simply pay a tax for Croatia for all the expensive things they do. Furthermore, one of the key amendments concerns the unique number of each mobile phone machine, which has been introduced to prevent abuse or theft of mobile phones. Each operator shall have the possibility of identifying and keeping that name and number in the network. Such information may prevent abuse and theft of mobile phones, especially theft with injuries to school children. Such numbers are required to be provided by operators in international exchange, so that such a device can be excluded from the network in the reporting of theft. Therefore, the Agency must have insight into these numbers, i.e. on the Ministry of the Interior, which these numbers can also be obtained. Furthermore, we believe that it is necessary to regulate the basic obligations of virtual mobile operators in particular. It's about a whole new concept, which I'm going to explain to you to make it clear to you what the dangers are. You can form a virtual phone operator simply by establishing a company, registering for mobile phone services, rent 50 to 100 thousand numbers from existing GSM operators that you then sell as a special network of your own. However, if there is no appropriate legal prohibition to use the creation of such a virtual operator to break the price and make it difficult for a third GSM operator to have the role of actually reducing the price of existing GSM operators. So it's possible to create a daughter's company that will be aimed exclusively at destroying potential competition. There are no fences of such an attempt in the law and therefore it is necessary in this law as well as in other European legislation to impose an obligation on that virtual operator who has therefore one limited number of phone numbers he has leased also to regulate through a state regulatory apparatus. Furthermore, we believe that the law requires the introduction of a far faster mechanism of confiscation of a concession permit. It is inadmissible that even three notices are needed to withdraw the concession. Only one warning is sufficient, even though the concessionaire in question continues to break the concession law and the point is taken away from him. We also find it unacceptable to extend the concession automatically. During the duration of the concession, Croatia can define entirely other conditions for that concession. In fact, the concession is to give a certain state resource for a certain period of time and in the country to say how these conditions will be prescribed during a certain period of time. So there's no automism about it. Furthermore, we believe that it is necessary to adopt the rules on relevant markets as soon as possible to define what operators with a significant market power are on the relevant market, because then we could directly commit those operators. Therefore, the largest operators must be particularly regulated and particularly controlled because they are the key to the braking of competition. We also believe that, at the request of the Telecommunications Agency, operators are obliged to offer standard interfaces and how to use these specific interfaces. Therefore, at the request of the Telecommunications Agency, it is therefore necessary to oblige operators to submit information on the interface, hence the price and the technical conditions under which new operators can join existing telecommunications infrastructures. It is quite clear if you have a new operator in GSM mobile phone that he will use an existing optical system,... the HT cable and that it should therefore be a transparent relationship between the price and the quality and conditions of the technical services provided by the HT in that case to the new GSM operator because, of course, HT cares about pushing its own mobile operator. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why the government's control mechanism is important. Furthermore, we have a whole series of amendments relating to criminal provisions. It's really funny for us to fix the amount of fines in absolute amount, so half a million kuna, because it depends on the income of individual operators. The penalty for individual operators may be if the amount of 10% of their total income is fixed while for HT the maximum penalty of even one million kuna represents only one miserable negligible percentage of income. This existing provision is discriminatory and should be amended in accordance with practice in the European Union countries in a way that the penalty is between 1 and 3.5% of annual gross income. We also believe that the State or the Telecommunications Agency must be given the right to intervene on the market in the event that new operators or non-discriminatory market action or attempt to create a duopol and maintain high prices are prevented. We also believe that it is legally necessary to allow the punishment of sending unwanted messages to telecommunications. It means "SPAM" messages on the Internet or in SMS, VAP and other mobile technologies. So we have a whole series of amendments and depending on these amendments, our support for this law depends. The way he is now, he's unfortunately just cosmetic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10722	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, Honored Representative Ante Markov. Here you go, fellow representative!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10723	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President, honourable representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The very fact that, in a relatively short time, these are the fourth amendments and additions to the Telecommunications Act speak of how interesting or better to say about telecommunications and radio communications, clearly to the interests of citizens who serve these services, but it is evident that in a legislative sense this matter is also exposed to various influences. Of course, I also think of the positive nature of this, and this is the alignment with European legislation, and also with the directives that often always appear in the context of any amendments and additions, but very often these directives are actually sent from those centres that control certain powers or have their own interests in order to be better involved in future amendments and additions to the law. Of course, such lobbying and such thinking everywhere in the world has become, I will not say, legitimate but almost legitimate, and we, as representatives of the legislative authority, must, of course, take care and care equally about the development of the telecommunications system and radio communications in accordance with the needs, to be fully consistent with those in neighbouring countries, but we should also take care of the interests of citizens who use these services, pay these services and who have invested significant resources in the infrastructure of these very institutions that we are discussing today. Because it should not be forgotten that our citizens in the final and fixed network and also the mobile network have paid almost entirely by separating from their salaries, from their incomes, and that is one of the reasons why today our pensioners always like to say, "That's what we did. That's what's left behind." and of course they have the right in that part and that such a people's property must always be under the special vigilance of this Parliament. What is important to say about the law, especially when it comes to mobile networks, is the unquestionable introduction of a third operator, the GSM operator that needs to balance the market match in that part, which needs extremely high profits, which according to the Croatian company's laws, these two companies. Of course, our citizens have accepted one such, one such civilizational step and are using large amounts of such services, but are exposed to the extremely high costs of these mobile devices in which sometimes it turns out that the price of the pulse is only 40% or 45%. Therefore, competition in the area of mobile telephony is also an obligation of this Law and, in that sense, the amendment one in a series of amendments proposed by the HSS Club is just about to create or facilitate opportunities for those GSM operators who will first try to compete when a public competition is opened. That is exactly what we are proposing and amending Article 9(1) which should be changed in a way that the transfer of the technical review before the conclusion of the concession agreement makes it difficult for the entry of a new concessionaire. Which is thus forced to build a network without a concession contract, making access to financial and other means difficult. We think that for this kind of intervention that we want to create an easier opportunity to access, not visually, as the colleague told the operators but those who will indeed bring competition in this field, which will mean both quality and a better and fairer price. In addition, a fixed network which is also somewhat less prone to public debates but for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is very interesting. First of all, because the Institute of Repayment is still an instrument that participates in many things in the final sphere, which is not common to or in those directives for which we often amend the Law on Telecommunications but which is not particularly fair for individual users, e.g. If you have a fax in your house then you have to pay the over payment as if you have a phone line and you want to and communicate daily. Therefore, competition in this fixed network position is something that is necessary and that this law should ultimately be supported both in its form and in its content. Also existing infrastructure that can be used not only for the second but also for the third operator on a fixed network of railways, highways and other public infrastructures in Croatia today is enough to create a system that will be more quality and for citizens which is most interesting and cheaper. In radio communications that are not so exposed to profit interest, there is also a whole series of problems that have been seen equally during the last changes and additions as well as in these proposed changes and additions. And first of all, it's necessary to introduce monitoring and control. During the tourist season, all those staying on the Adriatic coast or on the islands witness that local Croatians are becoming very common, almost always losing themselves under the worst and incursion of Italian radio stations that increase frequencies and thus lose the frequency of our domestic users. In this sense, Croatia must do everything to protect its space and introduce monitoring and control which are common ways to address such relations to improve the quality of monitoring on all radio frequencies. The HSS Club totalled 10 amendments aimed at creating a real opportunity to introduce a third mobile network to the so-called network. the system of equality and the equality of all those involved and all those involved in transport in the context of telecommunications. Therefore, we want to create such conditions in Article 16 and amendments and by adding Article 15 (a) which will not only ensure privileged sastus to the GSM operators but also to all others who, under the basis of this Act, operate. In this way, the introduction of Article 15(a) would create conditions for all concessionaires on the broadcasting market to be brought into an equal position and to prevent the harmful consequences caused by not accepting such an amendment. We also want to complete the issue of temporary permits and their basic objective, which they can and must make possible. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law, the mandate of the Institute and the Council of Telecommunications ceases with the very appointment of members who have the effect of shutting down existing institutions without the Agency being yet to be established and cannot begin work. The adoption of this Act without this amendment would either happen or there could be a legal vacuum in operation because at that moment, if the Office and the Council were to be shut down and, at the same time, it would not have been possible in court at the same time, because a rule adopted by the Government and other acts would have been adopted would have been legal vacuum, and it is necessary to bring these amendments and additions of the Telecommunications Act to the real position and the real option. Therefore, the whole series, i.e. the 10th amendment, which has been submitted by the HSS Club to which these amendments and the additions of the law are to be completed fully aware that we are going to have to pass a new Law on Telecommunication which should respect all the growing forms and needs and also the legal nature that is taking place with these frequent amendments to the Telecommunications Act. Because of this, the HSS Club will first and foremost recognise that these amendments are necessary in order to ensure that the very urgency of these amendments and the addition of the laws can be implemented and that these amendments and additions can give a valid effect and result in an addiction that we believe from the acceptance of amendments which are, above all, a more substantive character and want to improve existing intensity and ensure equality, functionality and what is most important for all of our citizens, citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be able to use these important services in a better, better quality but cheaper way. Depending on all this, the HSS Club will vote that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10724	Thank you very much fellow MP, we'll continue the debate in 10 minutes. The first was reported by the respected representative Kresimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10725	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The proposed law, amendments and additions to the telecommunications law propose some minor changes, but also some more significant ones. In any event, this Act should be brought into line with the amendments and amendments made to the establishment of the State administration system. It's done, it's justified. One of the conditions for the appointment of members of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency should be amended in order not to be too restrictive, given that it is a new technology sector in which experienced managers, experts and so on have practically grown up in recent years. So five years is understandable, an acceptable criterion. What I would particularly point out and seem to deserve a little more attention is the introduction of a technical examination for certain types of telecommunications services or the obligation to carry out a technical examination for telecommunications services and activities carried out on the basis of a concession. Certainly, the introduction of a technical review obligation is certainly important, but I do not think that this should be understood solely as a kind of technical formal examination but especially in the context of the call for a public tender for the award of concession to a third mobile operator who should integrate the second and third generation. Certainly the third mobile operator will be one of the important strategic decisions that must be made in the Republic of Croatia this year. Therefore, making such an important key decision is one complex process which not only needs to have a certain form of technical examinations, I would say much more complex it has, should have one complex complex, technical evaluation of the one to which the concession will be awarded, especially because of the integration of the second and third generation. The public tender will be called very soon. Of course, it would be particularly important for this public tender to produce quality tender documentation. Quality and tender documentation will facilitate the selection process of the best bidder in each respect not only in the technical but also in the financial and other aspects. Certainly, when making such an important decision, I believe and I am sure that according to the tender documentation, we will have a quality system, so freely I can say a multi-criteral expert decision that will guarantee the choice of the most qualitative decision and all of this should be expensive in the interest of not only the Croatian economy but all those who will be used to these services, and primarily the ordinary Croatian man to whom all of this should be cheaper and more accessible. And by reading and watching all this stuff here, I've noticed one thing that deserves, I'd say a special consideration. It is unacceptable for such important, large decisions to occur in the Republic of Croatia, such important investments in the technology sector, and there is no such thing as offset in all of this. Offset law is something they use and apply almost all developed countries. Offset law has been introduced into the acquisition of the defence industry and almost all developed countries without exception; Great Britain, Belgium, the Netherlands and so on, as a condition of each procurement, have an offset of 80,100,150%. Slovenia has introduced the Offset Act not only on military procurement but also on civil matters especially when it comes to such technological investments. Hungary, Poland, the Czech Offset Act ten years ago. What do you secure, what does the Offset Act provide? In this investment, EUR 50 million will be spent on the purchase of equipment to be purchased from Siemens, Erriccsson or someone else. Certainly the Offset Act and such compensation arrangements allow transfer of technology, co-production, joint ventures, transfer of knowledge and so on. It is unacceptable that the electronic industry in the Republic of Croatia 25 years ago was far more powerful than it is today and that is the fact. The fact is that 25 years ago there was one strong RIZ, one strong Tesla, one strong Končar and many others. Due to inadequate transactions, purchases, technology, knowledge and all other facts, this part of the industry, but the overall Croatian economy could not develop in a quality way. Ofsets not only have to be direct, cannot be tied to the scor business, do not have to be tied to the equipment that is purchased and purchased but the felts can be indirect. Therefore, this technique of procurement when it comes to such complex technological investments, capital investments must be part of the behaviour of modern and modern Croatia if we want to change, if we really want to start Croatia. Therefore, the award of concessions to the third operator is an important moment that should contribute to strengthening the Croatian economy, strengthening competitiveness but also some new services to be offered, I think here and in particular stress. The development of multimedia business communication should ensure the efficiency of the Croatian economy, the integration of medium and small enterprises, what is called clustering and so on. This should certainly contribute to the employment of young highly educated people. Therefore, accepting new technologies when it comes to such investments should be wise and wise. It is not only a matter of the Telecommunications Act, but it is a matter of many other elements that must be integrated when such decisions are made. What does our environment look like? Just a quick note. In Slovenia, it seems to me that three JSM operators and about 85% of the revenues go to Slovenian operators. In Serbia-Montenegro, it is almost 100%. In Croatia, 20%. Certainly, after the third assignment, concessions to the third mobile operator should be hoped that these percentages will be more favourable and should be hoped that Croatian companies will succeed and be able to organise and establish such a consortium that will succeed in obtaining a concession, which will be quality, which will offer quality and cheaper services and which will survive in conflict with very strong competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10726	Thank you very much. A respected representative of Nenad Stazic was also reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10727	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In my brief discussion, I will only talk about one topic in this law and this is about the prices of services and their regulation. This law provides for Article 63, which is now only to be amended in its fourth paragraph. Consumers of fixed-line services are dissatisfied with the way service providers charge for fixed-line services as part of their teffir system. Which they're unhappy with. They are not satisfied with the price, but it is less important because the price will likely be regulated by the market when another operator is fielding. But they're unsatisfactory by the way that consumption is calculated. To explain why they are dissatisfied, he said two three words about how it is addressed and what it is actually a tariff interval. The tariff interval is that of the smallest accounting unit on the basis of which the service is charged. She's 1 minute now. What that means is when you start making phone calls, the service provider pays you one minute of conversation. Whether this conversation lasted a full minute, either 15 seconds or 30 seconds or 45 seconds. And when they talk for a minute and one second, they charge you for two minutes of conversation. That's what the citizens are unhappy about. And rightly so. Citizens resonate like this. You charge me as much as you want, but only what I spend. But don't charge me for what I didn't spend. And that's where the citizens are absolutely right. Because when we look at how to charge, for example. Energy, so you pay a kilowatt hour when you've spent a kilowatt hour. You pay for the water cube when you've spent the water cubicity, not when you've started spending it. It's the same with fixed phones. It's supposed to be the same way and it's not. Article 63 is replaced by the following: The principles of a pricing system for the pricing of telecommunications services, provided by only one provider of internal and international telecommunications services, can be prescribed by the minister's rules. To simplify this and reduce it means for fixed telephony for HTe for the one who only now provides telephone services, the minister can bring in a rule that will tell you what the tariff system is, or he can determine the tariff interval that is now 1 minute he can shorten it for 15 seconds or for 30 seconds. I suggest that we deprive the Minister of these obligations. And to take one principled position, and therefore I suggest an amanndment. The amendment would say that the service provider can only charge for the used Taffphire interval. The interval will be what it will be, so why should the minister define it by means of an e-mail act. Well, that doesn't regulate the market. It is now one minute, when another operator appears he may not, the tariff interval will last 15 seconds in my network. And it will be charged if we adopt this amendment that I propose only after the end of that 15-second period. Then let the market determine the extent of the tariff interval at which the operator will be. Look out, somebody can tell me the buffer room for two minutes. Which means the first two minutes of conversation are free of charge, because if you don't talk full-time, you won't pay anything. The second prigora as a consumer can say, no with me will be three minutes free. So let's free the minister of this, so that by sublaw he determines whether it will be 15 seconds, 30 seconds or minutes as it is now. Let's leave it to the market, but let's get a principled point of view. That the consumer only pays for what he spent. And nothing. Therefore, I ask the Proposer to consider this amendment that I have asked. To accept it, because it will be in the interest of consumer protection, because it will boost one game of operators when another one appears, in a fixed phone network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10728	Thank you very much, dear colleague. There are no more reported representatives for the hearing. So we could lock her up. Does the closing statement wish to be given by a representative of the motion Secretary of State Drazen Breglec please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10729	Honorable ladies, and gentlemen of the MPs. I thank you first of all for a constructive debate. Which has opened up some new aspects and I will make an effort in this address to give some reference to your observations made. With, of course, all the amendments submitted in the proper form and within the appropriate time frame, I hope that we will be successful and able to do so. First of all, the objection made by the Legislative Committee that the regulation taken by the former government must be incorporated into the law we keep unnecessary. Because the regulation refers to an existing telecommunications agency. Whose existence ceases at the moment of the entry into force of the new intended Council of Telecommunications agencies. That will certainly be before the deadline of a year. We predicted that it would be within the next few months, so that such a provision would cease in itself and do not need to be incorporated into the law. As for some of the proposals, or remarks that appear in the amendments, they were related from an opportunity to some of the more important ones I will look back on, some will be processed in written observations. First of all, I want to correct concessions for fiscal telephony is not an appropriate term and concessions are not given but licences are issued. Which is the difference. The control of the legality of operations is given in the agency or in the ministry of logic of the proposal to be in the ministry by analogy that all inspection services in the former maritime ministry, transport is for, the current ministry of the sea of tourism, transport and development in the section concerning transport, the Ministry of Transport and other inspections. That's one argument. But it's not just a common one, there's also co-explanatory arguments, which is why because of this, because the body that proposes the laws and what's best is to exercise control of the implementation of these laws in the hands of the body that it proposes in the hands of the ministry, we think it's a more effective mechanism. Compared to the situation where a regulator that also has great powers would have the instrument of control in his hands. This is how we believe that control in the ministry would disperse the risk of possible misappropriations that could always occur even in an independent and professional body. The wrong thesis is that a virtual operator could destroy competition by reducing prices. I would very much like the bathtubs to show up a virtual operator leased 200 thousand connections and offered a free service through them, that is, the objective of liberalising the market. He would, however, destroy competition, but would certainly contribute to the main intensity of this law and the government's procedure, which is to introduce new operators that will contribute to better citizens as their ultimate goal by reducing prices and services. So there's actually no technical possibility for anyone to pay the rent of 100 or 200 thousand numbers, it shows up as a virtual operator and then offers that service at significantly lower prices than the one he bought it from. If that were to happen, it would certainly be in the intensity and spirit of our intentions. I also want to say that there is no automation on the extension of the concession but the law states that after the end of the concession there is a new procedure and there is a very clear thing. Connecting operators does not need to be defined by law, it has been defined so far by the rules laid down. I use the opportunity to point out that the basis of this law requires the adoption of as many as 33 regulations, that the deadline for their completion is one year. This law has entered into force, with the exception of paragraph 1.8. Up to now, seven regulations have been passed, most of which allow for the start of the telecommunications market liberalisation process. Therefore, this issue of connecting operators was also defined by the concessions and telecommunications service licenses which came into force seven days ago, so that the issue was settled in an appropriate manner. Penalties and criminal provisions. I must say that there are legitimate remarks about the relatively low level of punishment that we can and are able to prescribe, but the hands are in this law as well as all other laws bound by the Law of Infractions that limits the maximum level of penalties to a million kuna. In determining the penalty rate, this amount would, in any event, be missed, and the latter would not have been possible to implement such a provision. Our criminal provisions, the criminal provisions of this law are, in fact, limited to the maximum amount of criminal provisions provided for by the Violation Act. The penalties for spam were also imposed in Article 19 of the amendment, which is defined so that the issue is already being observed. In addition, some of the more difficult ones talked about the fourth amendments to the law. I have to deny that fact. These are the first amendments to the law, it was a government regulation, a former government with the legal force of intervention in just one article. It was a correction, so cut and the rest, and these are the first amendments to the law. I would agree with the remarks on the necessity of coordination of frequencies in radio broadcasts, which especially in border areas must be stronger, more aggressive, must be such that no interference occurs and especially not the intrusion of foreign radio stations excessively into our telecommunications space. The Office and the Council, the existing Telecommunications Office and the Telecommunications Council, are not yet shut down. They will be shut down in accordance with the provisions of Article 121 and will cease to exist, they will join the new Telecommunications Council Agency and act as a single body as such. Therefore, there is no possibility of a legal vacuum or a stalemate which is regulated in Article 121. I must admit that there was a big dilemma between administrative arbitration in the way in which the consumption defined in Article 63 is calculated and between the possibility of liberalising the market, in fact, being in a better position than so far. In this dilemma, the ministry decided to propose and the government's decision of 25 February goes in this direction, liberalise as soon as possible, introduce a third operator in mobile phone, open the fixed telephony market and give the market as the best regulator that the ultimate objectives that you have come up with from all the debates here, and for which the Croatian government is also being reached. We welcome the intensities of Mr. Stazic's latest speaker, to introduce a fairer calculation of the tariff interval, i.e. the intensity of both the government and the ministry. There are certainly different ways to achieve this ultimate goal. We will also consider with due attention this announced amendment as well as all the others that you respected gentlemen and Madam MPs submitted and I ask you to support this law in your final order to enable the planned process of liberalisation and appointment of councils to take place in the shortest time period and to finally reach the goal that I have noticed that you are all in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10730	We have a correction to the incorrect quote, Florian Boras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10731	Madam Vice-President, I have actually taken advantage of the possibility of correcting the alleged position as the only business opportunity to point to the unacceptable position of the motion not to accept the advice of the Legislator Committee that, in the amended text, in these amendments, the installation and provision covered by the regulation of the legislative force of 6 November 2003. This is the first time, and the correction of the quote has been so much as said on the board that this suggestion will be accepted, and this is so much, this is an important violation of the current single legislative methodology that we will have after the regulation amending and supplementing the laws, and the provisions covered by the regulation are not covered by these amendments. It does not change anything about the fact that the regulation has a temporary character and that the Council has a temporary obligation to seek consent, i.e. to temporarily request consent until the appointment of a council from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We insist that the text of the regulation be incorporated into the law, unfortunately as it was a promise that it would do so to us, in fact, the opportunity to give our own amendment would otherwise have been done by the Proposer... to the Committee on Legislatives at a position like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10732	Thank you very much to the chairman of the Legislative Committee. I think we're gonna have to talk about it when we vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10733	Final draft law amending and supplementing the telecommunications law, emergency procedure first and drugo reading bill number 90. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment table. The special table is divided into representatives. We have amendments to the government, after the deadline, in accordance with Article 166 we must vote. consider these amendments to the Government that have come into consideration. So I ask the MPs to declare who it is for us to accept an amendment to the debate on the amendments to the government that came after the deadline. Who's in? Thank you very much. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that in accordance with Rule 166 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 1. The parliament agreed to discuss 104 votes for and 4 against. Then let's go to the government's amendment first.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10734	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored MPs and MPs. Namely, these amendments to the IGP are amendments that have suggested and reached such a conclusion by the Legislative Committee. And the thing is, we weren't when we were making changes to the telecommunications law, we weren't putting in one regulation that was passed by the government. And this regulation is based on the fact that the Council of Telecommunications cannot call a tender without the consent of the Government. It is necessary in interpreting the Legislative Committee, to install this regulation into the law, and we have only done so in accordance with the decisions and conclusions of the Legislative Committee. Here are those two amendments. The first and the rhumbs who say that I am in force of the law shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10735	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the clubs, they can only come forward, a respected representative of Tonci Tadic on behalf of the HSPa club. Don't let a fellow Djapic on the lapuse not a lapse mint, but a lapse kalama.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10736	That's a hard-on, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. But I will forgive you for this time. Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. HSP's club is extremely pleased that the Government has submitted this amendment and that this regulation, which was really unacceptable in our opinion, has prevented the launch of competitions for new concessionaries or new operators in fixed and mobile telephony, is finally being moved. Regarding this law, I must also point out here that Croatia has received a positive avis, that there is also in the Croatian public about it, mainly in the Croatian government. But I've given myself a hard time and read the parts of the avis that apply exactly to telecommunications. And it concerns this particular matter that we are discussing today, so regulators and government law, or the right of the state to call competitions for new operators. Therefore, the avis will literally require amendments and additions to the law in order to bring a rather complicated approval scheme for new operators in line with the acquis of the European Community. Croatia still needs to adopt key implementing rules in order to continue liberalising the market. The Telecommunications Agency must also become a fully independent regulatory body with powers and means to implement the liberalisation policy. There must be effective procedures for the implementation of the regulatory decision and effective appeal procedure, etc. etc. As regards market entry, the European Commission was very clear there and said: The actual results on the market for new operators in the last year were very weak, however this is not only the result of missing laws and inefficient institutions. The opening of the market says the European Commission in avis is threatened by a lack of political will. So I repeat, the European Commission in avis notes that the opening of a telecommunications market in Croatia is at risk because of a lack of political will to open a telecommunication market. The fact that, together with poorly designed regulatory institutions has led to a delay in implementing important liberalisation measures, the European Commission notes. However, price rebalancing is in the advanced phase, and indicators show that Croatia's telecommunications monopoly needs a boost from competition. Apart from the de facto monopoly in the immovable network, the Croatian telecom operator owns 53% of the mobile telecommunications services market and 75% of the Internet service provider market. So this shows avis, the European Commission says, these are its recommendations to Croatia, and if we all swear on the importance of avis then let us read what Avis really says to Croatia and stick to it, and that means that we need to open tenders for new operators in mobile and fixed telephony, and therefore our club supports these amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we expect that the Government and the Council of Telecommunications will, as soon as possible, open tenders for the new third operator in mobile phone and for new operators in fixed telephony. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10737	Thank you. I am voting Amendment No. 1 of the Government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that the amendment of the first government was passed by 96 votes in favour and 4 against. Ministers of Amendment 2 explain the Government. You already explained that, yes. I'm opening an argument on Amendment 2. There's no argument. I am voting on Amendment 2 to the Government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find Amendment No. 2 of the Government passed by 90 for, 7 against and 3 abstentions. Ministers, we're now going to go to the board of MPs and club representatives for the show. The first club of HSP representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10738	This amendment cannot be accepted, because... in the field of telecommunications it has been placed in the jurisdiction of the resolution ministry as well as the authorities of the state administration in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the State Administration System.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10739	Dear Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10740	Dear Mr. Minister, one of the three main tasks of regulators, in this case the agency, is to be a police officer on the telecommunications market, i.e. it must have full power in implementing this law. I would remind again of the requirements of the avis, which is that the agency must be a fully independent body with powers and means to implement the policy of liberalisation. Unfortunately, Croatia continues to insist that the inspection is carried out by the ministry. This is in line with the trends in the European Union and therefore we are asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10741	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2 also to the Club of Representatives of the HSP?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10742	The proposed amendment is not acceptable because it introduces the authority of the issuing agency, which is contrary to Article 115, so that we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10743	Dear Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10744	We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10745	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10746	We do not accept this amendment because, according to its normative content, it deviates from the matter governing traffic Article 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10747	Here you go, pal Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10748	Dear Mr. Minister, we hold that the supplier of technical equipment in telecommunications on Croatian territory would still have to establish a company in Croatia or have authorised representatives here. This would ensure that major suppliers of goods and services in the telecom sector provide Croatian local support for their solutions, which would again contribute to the development of the information and telecommunications sector of the Croatian economy and therefore require a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10749	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 4 to the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10750	This amendment, unfortunately, cannot be accepted. The proposed amendment is not acceptable because it is a replacement of the current legal application institute which is otherwise provided for in Article 23(2) of the Law for the provision of appropriate types of telecommunications services and the authorisation institute which the Agency will grant by automated and resolution of requests.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10751	Here you go, buddy Marks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10752	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, the introduction of an authorisation to connect telecommunications networks with other countries is exactly a restriction, but what is more important to the provision envisaged is not clear on what conditions companies need to meet in order to obtain approval, i.e. even less clearly under which conditions the Agency will not issue an authorisation at all. So it's just a suggestion to get the approval out because it doesn't solve anything in its system.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10753	Please, who's for this amendment number four? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 5 of the HSP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10754	Unfortunately, we can't accept this amendment either. The proposed amendment is not acceptable because the obligation to deliver an international connection contract is already laid down in Article 19(3) of the Law and the provision of the relevant information is ensured as part of the obligations of the operator and service provider referred to in Article 18(6).
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10755	A colleague of Tadic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10756	Mr. Minister, you're saying, unfortunately, that in the HSP, we're interpreting that you care about this amendment, too, but obviously from political pressure, you can't accept the amendment. We believe that it is necessary for the Croatian Government and the Telecommunications Council to have insight into contracts between foreign operators connecting across the territory of the Republic of Croatia, it is an act of elemental sovereignty. On the other hand, it is necessary to deliver and store the number, the identification number of the mobile apparatus, as it is often a case of theft and abuse of these apparatus. All our amendments to this matter are really necessary and are a common part of the practice in the European Union, so we are asking for Mr President's vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10757	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 6 is also the Club of HSP Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10758	This amendment cannot be accepted because the provisions relating to the interconnection of Article 56 of the Law do not apply to virtual mobile networks, operators, since these operators are, according to their definition, service providers who must first contract with a mobile telecommunications network operator.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10759	Comrade Tadic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10760	Dear Mr. President, these define the basic obligations of a virtual mobile network operator. It is about an operator who can rent a number of mobile phones and offer these numbers as a separate mobile network, with a tariff that can be competitive. If there is no regulation on such virtual operators it is possible that existing mobile phone operators create a few months of virtual operator in Croatia that will destroy the entry of a third mobile operator into the Croatian mobile market. All European countries have regulations that regulate virtual mobile operators, and that's what we're looking for here. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10761	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 7. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10762	We cannot accept it because it is in Article 25. The laws regulate the conditions for the authorisation of the provision of telecommunications services, not concessions given in the tender procedure, for the frequency for the provision of public telecom services which are naturally limited to the general good.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10763	A colleague of the Marks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10764	Thank you very much. In fact, this is a very important amendment. Whether we can leave the Agency to choose whether or not it will, so it may not have to carry out a review of the fulfilment of the conditions for carrying out its activities. I think that introduces legal uncertainty, but for who? For the telecommunications service provider. For it is absolutely necessary to distinguish, the fulfilment of the conditions for carrying out activities is not a technical review of radio stations, as referred to in Article 86(7). And that's why these two concepts have to be distinguished. Therefore, we can't leave a choice will or won't. I think it is good that the legislator prescribes the possibility that it is binding.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10765	The vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 8. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10766	The amendment cannot be accepted because it is one of the prescribed cases of unconditional termination of the authorisation for the provision of telecommunications services, and thus the termination of the provision of services.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10767	Comrade Tadic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10768	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is about the process of withdrawing the authorisation for the provision of telecommunications services and the violation of this Act. In the HSP, we find it unacceptable to send as many as three warnings. One warning is sufficient, and if it does not meet it, it shall be withdrawn. That's why we're asking for a vote, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10769	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number nine. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10770	This amendment cannot be accepted because the Regulation establishes the Authority’s authority to prohibit the provision of telecommunications services referred to in the application before they are carried out, which is not contrary to the provision of Article 113(1). The law, which prescribes the powers of a telecommunications inspector to carry out inspection supervision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10771	Amendment withdrawn, thank you. Amendment number 10, also the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10772	This amendment also cannot be accepted because the examination procedure to which the company concluded a concession contract is considered unnecessary in a way that introduces two different types of examinations by the concessionaires.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10773	A colleague of the Marks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10774	This is also a very important amendment. Namely, it is good that the government in its proposal makes it difficult for new concessionaries to enter. And how does it make them more difficult? Creating other conditions than those under which the first two concessionaries in the GSM network were given the opportunity. In what way? That I can't get a concession contract that makes it difficult for them not only to access financial resources but also legal uncertainty. And I don't think it's a good idea to have different criteria for those concessionaries who are now using concessions and the third network that will come because this may also be a distraction for the entry of the third concessionary. So why are we putting on what we've all been saying so far that we want a third grid? This is an amendment that says we don't want a third network. Please think about it, this is a key amendment that the club's position depends on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10775	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10776	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The law does not prejudge the continuation or re-evaluation of the concession to the existing concessionaire, but rather prescribes the possibility of restoring the concession, solely on the basis of the public tender, without discrimination or favouring any of the potential participants in the tender process, including the existing concessionaire. So I don't think there's any need for this amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10777	A colleague of Tadic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10778	We still keep Mr. Minister in need of an amendment like this because it's about how the concession is extended. The proposed articles, if nothing had changed, would have prejudged the continuation of the concession for those who have it. We believe that, following the end of the concession period, the state can define some other conditions for granting the same concessions. And that's why you need to delete these parts of the law. We're looking for a vote, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10779	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 12, also the Club of HSP Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10780	The explanation is as well as Amendment 8 and therefore we cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10781	A colleague of Tadic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10782	It is the same problem when withdrawing the concession, i.e. a license to provide telecommunications services. Three warnings are unnecessary. One warning in violation of the law is sufficient, and after that, the withdrawal of the permit. We're looking for a vote, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10783	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10784	We can't accept...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10785	... It's an HSS rep club. A colleague of the Marks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10787	This is about an amendment which has not been accepted and with the amendment of Article 9, therefore, there is no need to vote. I'm pulling it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10788	Thank you. Amendment 13 withdrawn. Amendment 14. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10789	Well, this amendment, we can't accept the amendment, but what's here is a colleague from HSP through this amendment will be required to be regulated by a sublegal act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10790	Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn. Amendment...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10791	If that's how we withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10792	Okay. Amendment 15. also of the HSP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10793	This amendment cannot be accepted because the existing formulation of the provision of Article 53(7) is more technically appropriate, and it should also be noted that requests for an operator on the market in the light of the relevant decision as part of the performance of the regulatory tasks are made by the Board of the Agency rather than by the Agency. So 5 members of the Agency's Council, not the Agency as one, one institute of 70 or 80 employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10794	A colleague of the Marks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10795	The vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10796	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. ... HSP counseling club. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10797	This amendment cannot be accepted because the provisions of Article 56(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are hereby repealed. The law on the price of interconnection relates to mobile telecommunications network operators with a more significant load of power in accordance with the relevant European Union Directive. Virtual mobile network operators do not need to be explicitly referred to in paragraph 20, because they are interconnected through mobile telecommunications network operators with which they have contracts, rather than having their own infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10798	Comrade Tadic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10799	Dear Mr Minister, if the current text were left on that article, so if our amendment were not adopted, the mobile network operators would be excluded in our court, which is contrary to the European Commission's guidelines. In addition, it is discrimination on the market of telecommunications because Htmobile and VIP net mobile operators have an annual income of 5 billion kuna, which is also HT's fixed network and these are operators with significant market power and must be included in independent regulatory body's management, this is particularly important in order to ensure transparency and non-discriminatory access to the telecommunications market, so we are asking Mr. President to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10800	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 17th Representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10801	Well, I'd like to ask the defendant if he can withdraw this amendment because what Mr. MP has proposed to this amendment to change the tariff interval will be regulated by a regulation that is just in preparation at the ministry and will be passed very quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10802	Here you go, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10803	And not Minister, it's not my amendment to change the tariff interval that you might do with a sublegal act and a tariff interval that now takes a minute to cut to 30 seconds or 15 seconds. But I'm not asking for it with this amendment. I'm looking for something else. My amendment reads: "The service provider can only charge a spent tariff interval" and that's a whole other thing and that thing can only be solved by this law. So now users when they talk 1 minute and 1 second they charge HT 2 minutes and I'm asking them to charge the minute they spent and if you refuse this amendment now you're pushing for that service providers can collect and something these haven't spent. Therefore, I demand a vote and expect all MPs in the Assembly to stand behind the consumers behind those who phone and not behind the HT, to protect them from being charged for something they did not spend. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10804	Thank you very much. Since it was a misunderstanding between the minister and you in understanding the amendments, the ministers have again once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10805	I said we can't accept the amendment, but I already said it in public, so our consumers know that the regulation adopted by the minister as a sublegal act will introduce it to pay only spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10806	Here you go, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10807	If you, first of all, have to write it in the law, secondly if you make such a promise and get applause from your club, accept the amendment right now, why are you delaying that by sublegal act, which is why you will accept those promises now. Give me security, please, I'll talk. Make sure I talk. If exactly this is your promise if that's how it's gonna be to keep it right now, this moment, accept the amendment and when the law comes into force all those who phone in fixed phone will be protected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10808	Who's in favor of this amendment that the government doesn't accept? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 18. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10809	This amendment cannot be accepted because it does not make it more clear that the provisions in question in Article 63(4) of the Law... And they needlessly repeat parts of the text and do not limit the deadline within which the Agency's Council is obliged to give the requested consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10810	A colleague of the Marks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10811	I think the most important thing that we need to determine is that the agency must first of all determine whether prices are cost-effective and depending on which to give its consent to service prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10812	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 19. HNS PGS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10813	From you Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament came the incentive to agree on 3 laws which would then regulate and practically accept one such request, which is the Law on the Protection of Consumers and the Law on Telecommunications and the Law on Mandatory Relations, and we within the Government will do so as soon as possible and will then be consumed this issue mentioned in this amendment. So now we can't accept it, but we'll do it on your behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10814	PGS IDS club. HNS PGS, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10815	Dear Mr Minister, everything I have heard and understood that you cannot accept the amendment because you have turned to the President of the Assembly, namely this amendment, we are trying to bring the proposed law in line with the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act and the decision of the Constitutional Court of July 2003, according to which, when the phone subscription was lifted, access to the telephone network would be paid depending on the traffic consumed and achieved and not in the flat-rate tax still in force. If there is an exact figure somewhere around 220 thousand users would profit from it in Croatia, that Deutsche Telekom is against this amendment, and I expected it, but that the government will not accept it, but to promise to the future please forgive me, please, I really can't understand it, thank you. And I'm asking for a normal vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10816	Who's in favour of this amendment? Hla didn't get the necessary majority. 20. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10817	We do not accept this amendment because it is Article 63. The law established a telecommunications price regulation mechanism only for operators and service providers with a more significant market power, public voice services in a valueless telecommunications network and on the market of leased telecommunications lines in accordance with the relevant European Union directives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10818	A colleague of Tadic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10819	We're looking for a vote, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10820	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 21. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10821	This amendment introduces a concept change in the existing system of issuing radio licenses in such a way that it intends to re-establish the earlier applicable authorisation procedure, which is not in line with the practice of licensing such concessionaries in the European Union countries and therefore I do not think there is a need to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10822	Thank you very much. A colleague of the Marks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10823	Unfortunately, the Government's proposal introduces a different legal position for participants in this business. Namely, it ensures definitely privileged status for GSM operators and at the expense of others. We don't think that's good, this amendment would make us all in the same legal position and no one would make better preferences.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10824	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 22 of the same HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10825	Also, for reasons I said in Amendment 21, he couldn't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10826	A colleague of the Marks. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 23 of the same HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10827	This amendment is unacceptable for the reasons of Article 86. The law regulates matter, the permit for radio stations, which can be extended to radio networks or systems but not to telecommunications terminal equipment, import and use, which is fully arranged with a head of 10. Therefore, this amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10828	A colleague of the Marks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10829	Well, first of all, with this amendment, it is intended to encourage the introduction of new services on the telecommunications market of fixed networks. and this is the intensity, i.e. to create the possibility of technical examination and to enter into such business without expensive concessions. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10830	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 24 of the same HSS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10831	We cannot accept it, because Article 97(3) of the Law has been arranged completely clear and perfectly accurate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10832	A colleague of the Marks. The vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 25. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10833	Provisions of Article 111 The laws as well as the entire chapters 12. Data protection are in line with the Directive of the new regulatory framework of the European Union, so I don't think there is any need to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10834	A colleague of Tadic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10835	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We believe that it is necessary to legally enable users of telecommunications services to protect against receiving unwanted messages. So, from spam messages that can be sent. Similarly, we believe that it must be possible for people to defend themselves against messages sent from false addresses that cannot be stopped in any other way than possibly a legal suit, so they must have the possibility of legal protection from receiving SPAM messages. Therefore, we ask that the law be complemented by a specific article that would regulate it. We're looking for a vote, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10836	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 26. HSP's club also.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10837	This amendment is not in accordance with the Law on Infringements. Therefore, for this reason we cannot accept him.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10838	Thank you. A colleague of Tadic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10839	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is about the fact that for HT in existing legislation, the maximum penalty of one million kuna is provided for telecommunications service offenders, i.e. for all those who violate the Telecommunications Act. For HTs as offenders, this represents only 0.013% of income. And for some smaller operator for some new Internet provider, it could be lion's income. Therefore, we believe that financial penalties should be graduated with a percentage of annual gross income, rather than defined in absolute terms. In addition, the existing provision in the law is discriminatory and should therefore be amended in accordance with practice in the European Union. We also believe that the agency must have the right to intervene in this way, which is what the AVI said. We're looking for a vote, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10840	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 27th of the same club of HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10841	Explanation as for Amendment No 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10842	A colleague of Tadic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10843	For the same reasons as last time, we insist that punishment be imposed according to the percentage of annual gross income. Not in absolute terms. Because we've got all kinds of power operators. For the strongest operator it's a ridiculous amount, but for the new operator it can be a brake at the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10844	Please. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 28 of the same club of HSP representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10845	This is not acceptable for purely legal nomotechnical reasons, because the implementation of the legally unusual concept of the new law creates ambiguities regarding the law to be applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10846	A colleague of Tadic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10847	We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10848	Thank you. Amendment 28 withdrawn. That would be all of the amendments. There's this one of the HSS Representatives Clubs that doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 77 votes for, 22 against, a law on amendments to the Telecommunications Act in the text was passed, as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10849	I suggest we move on with the debate. The following are under the consolidated text of three laws on local and regional self-government. However, in agreement with some of the promoters today we will not hold a debate on points 3, 4 and 5, so we are moving to item 7 of the agenda, i.e. – Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the areas of the counties, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, first reading of P.Z. No. 63 The proposal for an act has been accepted into the boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply, i.e. Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, for local and regional self-government. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. The government of the Republic of Croatia also delivered an opinion. I assume that the proposer's representative wishes to further explain the proposal. They are representatives of Mato Arlović, Marin Jurjevic, Josip Leko and Zvonimir Mršić. You've appointed President Matu Arlovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10850	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. We have proposed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, in fact, as the Final Proposal for Law, but when setting the agenda, we have defined ourselves as a Parliament to take down the emergency procedure. What motivated us first to propose this bill, especially to propose it in an emergency procedure? We felt that this bill actually met all the conditions that it could be passed and that it was not necessary to discuss it twice but that it could be adopted by emergency procedure. And what are the reasons for that? First, let us remind that the current local board of Tarvabriga, Vabriga stretches from the Mirna River valley in the north of Dobbe – Cervar, on the south of the territory of 3 square kilometers and represents a separate historical, economic and cultural unit, linked to the common interests of the population. The number of inhabitants is about 2,000 with the right to vote about a thousand and 483 citizens. Secondly, what we want to say is that after the formation of the new units of local self-government, this area remains within the city of Poreč, organized as a local committee, a tourist community, a local Tarvabriga, where income from a tourist tax has been achieved remains in place, by engagement of members of the local board and good co-operation with the City of Poreč. These settlements become relatively well-organized and equipped tourist resorts. However, the needs of places and agreed activities are realised very slowly, primarily because of the higher justified priorities of the village of Poreč and other parts of the town of Poreč. Therefore, year after year, the inability to implement agreed programmes is increasingly visible, which directly affects the rapid tourist development of this area and, of course, the quality and standard of living of the population. Third, along with this proposal, we have provided information on the statement of the citizens from the area for which it is proposed to establish the municipality, i.e. the opinion of the City of Poreč and the County Assembly of Istria and the elaborate on the establishment of the Municipality of Tarvabriga. Fourthly, we must say that according to the Law on County, City and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, Article 30, that the establishment of a new unit of local self-government can be proposed by the representative body of the unit of local self-government, i.e. one third of citizens residing in the area in which the change is sought. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in this particular case we have a situation where more than one third of the citizens are asking their signatures to establish a new municipality, and at the same time in accordance with the Law, as set out in Article 30. The law meets the other conditions. On the other hand, the City of Poreč and the County of Istria actually contributed a positive opinion to that part. We have delivered the proposal and signatures of citizens who make a proposal for the establishment of the Tarvabriga municipality and, of course, the conclusion of a positive initiative for the establishment of the Tarvabrig municipality by the County Assembly of Istria County and, of course, the City Council of the City of Poreč. From all of this, it would be said that there is no particular reason why this bill should not be adopted and today it is decided to play this practically into another reading, then to make such a decision in the second reading that the Tarvabriga municipality is founded. Why? Because this is what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live in the area and who at the same time have the consent of other citizens of their city in whose composition they are so far and yet are, this is the City of Poreč and the County of Istria, i.e. the units of regional self-government. Secondly, because they guarantee their signatures and the elaborate that they can, they provide economic and financial conditions for the existence of this municipality. Third, they have fulfilled all legal and formal and constitutional assumptions that they can establish a municipality. But something happened that surprised us a little as a proposing, which is that the government has found one reason why she should not accept and support this bill because, behold, there is no agreement of the Ministry of Finance which should also propose the source of funding for all the obligations of the units of local self-government that should be accompanied by this bill, so that it could be passed. I must say that we were surprised by this fact for the simple reason that we as proposings have the position of the Ministry of Finance, class: 015-01/03-01/27, manual number: 513-05/03-2, as of 25 August 2003, which the Ministry of Finance basically has no objections to the proposed bill in question since it has not received all the necessary information for the previously mentioned settlements, is not able to establish their fiscal capacity, and let us quote: "it considers that it is essential to ensure a positive indication of the representative bodies of the City of Poreč or the Istrian County of that legal initiative, in accordance with Article 30. Laws on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia." The signature of the Minister of Finance, however, was then by Minister Mato Church. We've received this opinion from the Ministry of Finance, but so far it hasn't changed. We see no reason why that opinion could not apply, and in fact, why the government did not look at it at all. Practically all formal and all content conditions for the establishment of the Municipality of Tarvabriga are met. And for this reason, we suggest that you release this proposal of our law into a second reading and that in the final proposal after which we prepare after the debate in the first reading, we practically prepare the law for adoption. So, we repeat, this is what citizens in the area of the inhabited areas of Tarvabriga, Fratar, Perci, Gredici and Roshini want. This is agreed by residents of the city of Poreč through their representative body of the city council who gave a positive opinion. It is agreed on by the regional self-government of the Istrian County. The finance ministry has practically given a positive opinion and should accept it for a simple reason until it changes until something else is brought. The other one wasn't brought. Therefore, all formal conditions are met legally, constitutional conditions are met, democratic conditions are met, and most importantly are met natural, historical, economic, and if you want, ultimately, the cultural conditions which these settlements represent a special historical, economic cultural whole linked to the common interest of the population. And it should be possible for this population, whenever it wants, to establish a special municipality of Tarvabriga, which would include all these inhabited places that I have read and which could exist in the local self-government system of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10851	Thank you very much, Vice President Mother Arlovic. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Nobody's answering. Representative of the Government, State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10852	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. The government has considered this bill and other legislative proposals intended in the Republic of Croatia to introduce new units of local self-government, a new municipality. The government appreciates the initiative of citizens who expressed their opinion, the government also values the views of the representative bodies of the regional self-government unit and the local self-government unit from which the settlements would be singled out. However, the government holds that now is not the time, we are in place a year before the regular local elections, that now is not the time to pass this law. Because as the law passes the second reading, while elections are being held, in fact, that municipality would have a mandate, the representative body would have a term of 7.8 months. This is a major organisational problem, a huge cost for the local budget because costs fall on the burden of the local budget and this representative body will not be able to live up to the next local elections. Therefore, by respecting this initiative of citizens and all other initiatives that have come to the government, the Government will take account of them and, within a reasonable time before the regular local elections, will re-evaluate them and propose a full Law on the areas of the county, cities and municipalities with the possibility that some of the individuals of local self-government who are unable to function may be abolished by that law. The government is therefore not in principle against the initiative but it is against the time that this is happening now and it is against the fact that individual initiatives are changing this important law, and you know that the Government is preparing a full reform of local self-government to further decentralisation of state affairs, so it is also cautious about the creation of small municipalities by the number of inhabitants, until they examine their financial potential. Here, we suggest that the law be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10853	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Palaric. Now it's the club representatives. First of all, the SDP Club is a respected representative of Antun Perusko, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10854	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. By passing the Law on Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, which established a number of units of local self-government in general in 93 years, he had his most positive and negative consequences as the effect of the Law. We are aware that the territories of individual units are drawn on the political map of Croatia as an expression of a particular will, a certain political moment, and it was certainly quite illogical in determining these units, we have many examples of illogicality in the area of Istria County where some enclaves are really difficult to explain, some settlements cannot even reach the territory of the same municipality as in the municipality of Rasa without crossing the territory of another unit of local self-government, but after the law was passed, there were numerous amendments to the laws that mainly went towards the creation of new units of local self-government. For example, at this assembly session, we have three proposals for amending the law. It is obvious that individual failures are corrected but should be said honestly not only because some positive examples often refer to citizens starting initiatives to create new local communities. It is not necessary to escape from the fact that certain units of local self-government are indeed their own purpose, to maintain from their budget barely a cold drive, themselves, most of these small municipalities with small fiscal capacity, barely providing income to cover operating costs and the work of professional services, while for capital investments very little free resources remain. Due to the low population density, the need for capital investment is particularly important in road and water supply infrastructure, and the resources are insufficient and then the exit through grants from either the county, or the state budget. I have to be quite clear, we in the Istrian County even though the situation is better it doesn't matter better. In Istria, 10 cities and 2 municipalities generate around 618 million or a total of 84% of all budgets and the remaining 27 municipalities make 119 million or 16% of the funds. This is the negative context of the effect of the Law on individual units, however, we must really point out the number of very positive examples when the establishment of certain units of local self-government has resulted in a boom in the right sense of the words of certain smaller environments. In this particular example that we are discussing today when it comes to the establishment of a new municipality in Istria County called Tar Labriga, by detached from the town of Poreč 6 settlements and the formation of a new municipality, has all the elements that the citizens' initiative and their 547 signatures, should be accepted, especially as a positive opinion has been drawn up under the law, that the city council of the city of Poreč has the same positive opinion of the congregation of the Istrian County, and, as we heard from colleagues Arlovic, the positive indication of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance, and not how this is explained in the view of the current government that there is no position of the Ministry of Finance, therefore it has a positive position of the Ministry of Finance. With respect to the part of the Government’s view which is in principle opposed to the establishment of new municipalities and which believes that the decapitated municipalities will not be able to carry out the tasks planned to be transferred to decentralisation because of insufficient financial potential, in this particular case it would not be possible to respect that argument or accept it. The fact is that when setting up units of local self-government, there were false steps that I was already talking about and these mistakes are trying to correct. In this particular case, when it comes to citizens' request for the establishment of Tar Vabriga, we at the SDP Club think and we are convinced that the case is to say the purest. Based on arguments that historical economic and cultural units are linked to the common interest of the population, but more than that are supported by a projection of a budget in which the revenue side is planned with an amount of €8.8 million. There may be mistakes, however, major deviations from budget projections are not to be expected. How to clarify to the citizens of Tara and Vabriga that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not give a positive opinion on their initiative to set up its municipality and that this area proposed by the establishment of a new municipality has, for example, 1483 citizens with voting law, with a projected budget of 8.8 million kuna, while at the same time in the area of Istria and Istria County that we are not going beyond, there are 16 municipalities with fewer voters and this range from 359 voters to 1485 means significantly less than the future Tar Vabriga municipality. Or, for example, how the citizens of the Tara Vabriga area are asked to make clear that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not give a positive opinion on their initiative when again speaking only of the Istrian County that I am not going wider there are 24 municipalities that have a smaller budget and this budget, ranging from 1.2 to 7.0 million and are significantly less than the projected budget of the future Tar Vabriga municipality, which, as it is said, would amount to around 8.8 million kuna. Surely the relationship to other units in Croatia is even more pronounced in favour of the future Tar Vabriga municipality, which we at the SDP Club are about to make a decision on the establishment. For these reasons and those presented by my colleague Arlović, we are in favour of the SDP Club and we advocate that this Croatian Parliament adopts a proposal for the Law amending the Law on County, City and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, which established the new Municipality of Tar Vabriga in Istria County, which would include part of the area of the town of Poreč and that of Tar, Vabriga, Frata,... and Roshiri in the explanation. These settlements are now part of the area of the town of Poreč. Since our proposal was not adopted to pass this law by an urgent procedure and we think there was no reason why I could not agree with the State Secretary's explanation of the upcoming local elections, I think that this municipality can be followed nicely to these next regular elections but that the proposal to pass the law in an emergency procedure was not too high a reason not to do so here today, but to suggest that it then go to another reading as envisaged. I'm afraid for the fate of that proposal. However, it is worth noting the demands of citizens who are truly firm, justified and I call and colleagues from the 8th electoral unit of my friends from the Croatian Democratic Community in the area that they also advocate that this law be passed, because they also know the same thing as I justify the demand for citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10855	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Honored Representative Milan Meden. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10856	Dear colleagues of the vice president, distinguished secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. On the basis of the constitutional basis of the Republic of Croatia, Article 133(1) of the Declaration by the citizens of the Tar Vabriga local committee, an initiative for the establishment of Tar Vabriga municipalities has been initiated. As we have already heard from the legislator, that area of the Tar Vabriga local committee is located today in the system, the composition of the town of Poreč, and contains the settlement Tar, Vabriga, Frata, Perci, Gedeci and Roshini. To understand the geographical position of the macrolocation center of the proposed municipality of Tar Vabriga located cca 7 kilometers from the center of Poreč, on the direction of the state road Poreč-Novigrad, and from the peripheral parts of the city it is only a few minutes away by car. So it's practically in the city of Poreč. This area represents a significant tourist potential, and only the tourist resort Lanterna with hotels above the tourist center and the camp, has about 18 thousand beds. This is a tourist resort owned by a private... enterprise of Poreč-based Riviera. And private owned by local board residents there are only 400 beds of the apartment type or as rooms for rent. Overall, by observing this tourist potential, it represents about 20% of the total potential in the area of the town of Poreč, said a prominent tourist destination. If they only observe the area of the local committee, which extends within 3 km of square and has a total of less than 1900 inhabitants, it is indeed relatively strong economic potential. On one resident we have 10 accommodation units and it is far from Croatia. Exceptional commitment and... by the action of the local board and by the cooperation of the capital of Poreč, these places are today arranged with satisfactory infrastructure, and since there is a tourist community part of the financial resources remains in this place. With a tourist offer in the area of this local board there is also an enviable complementary agricultural potential in the area of about 1700 hectares of farmland. With the appropriate climate conditions for locals, there is a tradition of olive growing and wine vines, and through many generations fishing is also one of the oldest economic branches, where the inhabitants of ancient times have provided existence here. It is natural, in fact, that, with this relatively strong potential, there is an initiative to establish its own local self-government, or financial independence. And it is precisely the basis of these facts that launched the initiative of the members of the local committee, where there is a desire and a vision that can be done more quickly and quality, build a modern infrastructure, and in direct decision to ensure faster economic development and create new jobs. The review of the documentation submitted under the legislation shows indeed one professional approach, with the citizens' statement since May 2003, 547 signatures have been collected. It also accompanied a positive statement by the town of Poreč and the county assembly of Istria County, and was given an elaborate on the establishment. However, it was in this identical form that this bill was already included in 37 points, the 37th session of the Croatian Parliament last called in late September and October, at the end of September and in October 2003. At the time, it was the 21st item of the agenda, Proposal for Law 773, and the proposal was the representative of Jadranka Katarinčić-Škrlj. The record says that the debate was not conducted, which I believe existed and justified reasons. The proposal for a law of 63 proposed the establishment of this municipality was assessed by the government as being largely in line with the provisions of the laws concerning the establishment of new units of local administration and self-government. However, there is no agreement with the finance ministry, and the government therefore does not support the proposed law. The proposed documentation of the previous proposal also shows that the Management Department for the Local Administration and Self-Government of the County of Istria has, since 30 May 2003, instructed the Proposer to obtain, among other things, the consent of the Minister of Finance to the attached change. Thus, it is evident that there was an almost identical problem in the previous government’s meeting. At first glance, the financing of a new municipality should actually be unquestionable. Small municipalities and great desires in the regulation of infrastructure combined with lack of experience in governance can actually not be a trap. and I come from a small municipality myself, and from experience I am saying that the financing of such municipalities is mainly based on transfers either expected from the county or the state budget. For these reasons, the HDZ Representatives Club cannot support the draft law for the establishment of Tar Vabriga municipality at the moment. We believe that this is too serious a project for the life of one end, or future community. The seriousness of accession is not just a focus on the political, legislative, social, geographical and economic environment. In fact, the seriousness of the project is to identify advantages, weaknesses and opportunities, and the strategy must be based on economic or financial indicators. We want to obtain all necessary documentation and consent... established by law and to consider all possibilities in the environment where this municipality would actually live. I believe that if all consents and indicators are obtained positively then it is possible to implement the establishment of the Tar Vabriga municipality long before May of the next year when local elections will be held, in order to select both the council members and the headship of the municipality in good time, and under such circumstances, the HDZ Club will positively support the initiative for the establishment of the Tar Vabriga municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10857	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the promoter, MP Mato Arlović, vice president at home. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10858	Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to take note, on behalf of the motionary, of some new allegations, above all of the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I must repeat that lawmakers have and are available, and I have quoted and listed the number and since the opinion issued by the Ministry of Finance in relation to this case and the agreement that arises. Since then, that opinion has not changed. Therefore, there is the agreement of the Ministry of Finance that this municipality can be founded, the question remains, in fact, whether the Parliament wants it or not. Secondly, there are no arguments from the Government of the Republic of Croatia in a specific case, not in general, but in a particular case that in the case of depletion of municipalities due to insufficient financial potential, it should not be specifically established by this municipality, as all indicators show that this municipality has such income that guarantees that it can finance all the laws of the prescribed obligation that the units of local self-government and even more so that it can carry part of its own development and not only in tourism, but also in economic and social development and the municipalities. Thirdly, we agree in principle as a Club of Representatives with the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it is necessary to join a greater reorganisation and legislative regulation of amendments and additions to the Law establishing municipalities and cities, i.e. units of local self-government. But we don't think that's why this particular case or other specific cases that meet the conditions at this point could not pass. However, it may only be more so that the Government prepares the amendment and supplementation of the law as soon as possible, in so far as we respect the opposition of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that it should not implement the elections after this law enters into force immediately within 60 days and in such a case if the Parliament and we are convinced that the Parliament will have nothing against the will of its own voters to have this going to another reading. By the second reading, we will prepare another article of this bill, which will prescribe that the first elections for the local self-government unit will be held in regular elections when they are made for all units of local self-government in the next election cycle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10859	Thank you very much, Proposer. We're going to a ten-minute debate. The first one in 10 minutes of debate came from Antun Perusko. Here you go. I agree it's unusual. [[Intruder: The speaker is not on, you can't hear.]] You may withdraw. You've got two applications, one that's not on behalf of the club. It's 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10860	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10861	All right, thank you very much. Good call. Next is Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10862	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! So this is probably one of three proposals for the creation of new municipalities. It's a little strange that this proposal has arrived now and we can see from the proposal that this municipality already, that this municipality already wants to form for quite a long time. Let's just say, we're surprised why it wasn't brought in at the last session of the former assembly when it was brought in that the Kamana municipality in the Carlovac County with a thousand inhabitants can become a municipality and this is the quality of the municipality can't. I have long followed the work of small municipalities, finally in the alliance of cities and municipalities I was the president of the council for one four years and followed their problems. And I'd like, if possible, to ask the secretary of state to run some sort of work analysis, life, the financing of these small municipalities. We know we have them somewhere around 420, I think it's somewhere right now because there's always a few new ones and only then to talk about new municipalities. In fact, if we're talking about decentralisation and it's supposed to be necessary and it's going to be carried out probably if we're talking about small municipalities that won't be able to accept anything in that decentralisation that I don't know about big cities, big municipalities of power, then we need to think very carefully about whether a few more small municipalities are needed. Every small municipality is certain to have its own desires, its own problems, and I do not deny that from 1993 to this day, much has been resolved precisely in small municipalities and the pawning of the inhabitants, and they finally have someone who will take care of these people, so for the rest of the year the elections are coming. Let's try again after this analysis to see if we need to make a decision about these three new ones now, actually not one but three new municipalities, or we're going to stop around two. Okay, another proposal has been prepared there for the third. So if we're going to petition, I'm asking the Proposer to look at how many places the same handwriting is. I've listed at least one thirty, forty places, so three, four identical manuscripts, and if it's a thousand and 400 voters I don't know, and there's 400 signed ones here. If we take out some of those identical handwritinges a little bit, I'm afraid that's a lot, a lot less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10863	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up is Agent Lino Cervar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10864	Dear Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and is not on the Parliament's agenda from today. Since the first formation of units of local self-government, more areas have been said to have felt deprived of their status. Since they failed to form as new units of local self-government, they remained as so-called. the sticker of a municipality called the local committee. As the fate of the part in Istria County and the area of Tar Vabriga which remained part of the town of Poreč, including settlements such as Frata, Perci, Gedic and Rosinj. It is not only that the establishment of its own unit of local self-government, because of its rationality and decision-making and decision-making speed, will make a significant contribution to the development of entrepreneurship, reducing unemployment but also faster development of this area with enormous potential. Autonomy of capital and head availability has been known to produce significantly better results. It is not necessary to be very wise and to conclude that this area can quite successfully solve all its problems, both developmental, organisational, economic, and financial. Of course all of this under the cap of the city of Poreč is becoming difficult. The initiative from the local committee dates back to 1996, which was not implemented until the end due to the city's promise to speed up needs and programmes. Unfortunately, that's not what happened. And last year it could not, or the debate was not conducted, I hold it unjustly and I can tell you that there are initiatives and other areas from the Istrian County. This proves that it is the mature judgment of the citizens of this region. Someone will say I'm subjective. Yeah, when I say it's a rich end to working and good people. However, it must also be understood that the government of the Republic of Croatia is opposed to the establishment of new municipalities because there are many examples that decapitated municipalities cannot carry out the tasks planned to transfer to them decentralisation. This confirms that there are municipalities who have made sure that it was too much for them to eat and that they are actually seeking their self-indentation. I'd just like to supplement a colleague who used to say he's 420. No, there are 427 municipalities in Croatia, 123 towns plus Zagreb and 21 counties. Nevertheless, we should commend the government's proposal to adopt before the local elections a proposal for a new law that will fully, therefore, fully regulate the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. Why, however, I insist on a positive approach by the Tar Vrabrig local committee to establish its own unit of local self-government. In addition to the enormous potentials as already said in tourism, agriculture, olive growing, in fishing, I would add something else to the list. The plan is to build and edit a craft-service zone that will allow for further growth of entrepreneurship. A detailed plan is planned to build an economic zone modeling the provinces of Lombardi and... The Venice of Giulia of neighbouring Italy, which would allow for the construction of small production plants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the final decision of the Government is made to open specialised agencies that will quickly and effectively address all the problems of obtaining permits for future entrepreneurs, we will realize that this area has a future. And finally, after all this, I welcome the government's position to take the committee's initiative seriously once again... which means that we have not totally adjudicated this, we welcome this initiative and that it is possible to enable the establishment of units of local self-government in the complete territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10865	Since it's part of Croatia I don't know very well. And by reviewing the materials, I saw a positive view of the city from which the newly formed city council should also be formed. And with all the opinions that contribute to support this proposal. I didn't understand Mr. Cervar, he was for the initiative but also for the government's stance against this initiative. So now, do you support forming a new municipality or not? That the rest of us in northern Croatia knew how to support people's attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10866	Thank you very much. This is indeed an unusual replica. You have the right to reply to the replica. Here you go, Representative Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10867	And I think that the gentleman, or colleague, did not understand my debate, and for this I will try again to say very briefly and corely to him that the government did not absolutely refuse the Tarvabriga local committee initiative. At the moment when situations arise that there are many requirements for the establishment of units of local self-government and because we have many situations that we have the municipalities of okja simply are no longer able to act that we have to create a whole structure, a territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. At that time, and this will be before the local elections, the government will consider such a proposal. Therefore, nothing was rejected. And I mean, I'd just like to tell the gentleman, he said he didn't know the area.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10868	Thank you very much, that was the reply to the replica. The next is MP Niko Rebic. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to a word at this point in the agenda. And the last registered representative, Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10869	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I have to admit, I have a very amylative feeling when I have to talk about one of these initiatives. On the one hand, no matter how hard we try to act as integral Croats, we must certainly admit that we do not know Croatia enough. So it's very difficult for us from Osijek, Slavonia to talk about Istria, Zadar, Medjugorje or other areas, and that there's some civil and political decency and culture that requires us to try it, try to skip over. But I'm listening, down here, media representatives, journalists who say as soon as they start talking about such suggestions that there are new local, local elections, no matter what the law says. But I would just like to maybe go back to the story in 92, that's the story between Christmas and New Year, there about 30 if I'm not mistaken, in December 92 we passed the Law on the new territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia where we then divided Croatia into a number of municipalities, a certain number of cities and a certain number, i.e., very, 20 counties plus the city of Zagreb. Why do I say certain? Because the number of municipalities and the number of cities, meanwhile, has changed dramatically. Depending on what flag party viriates in a municipality or some city. And many have truly seen it as a matter of party honor that for their municipality elections the status of the city or that some local board elects status, the status of the municipality. I mean, I was thinking then, so I think that, no matter what 12 years have passed, I didn't think that the economic potential of the Republic of Croatia wasn't such that it could afford the luxury of having so many municipalities, I say that it was increasing, or so many cities, or such numbers, so many counties. And I think that such a reform is in fact waiting for us and that there is always an acidic apple in which no one has dared to catch up with us until January 3rd, and unfortunately neither the former conflicting government has even delayed the reform of local self-government into one bad, bad infinity. But I think that both the avis and the entry into the European Union will actually make us define Croatia differently which should not be seen as a striket but simply as a fact if we want to be compatible then we could really follow some European standards. I also thought in 92, and unfortunately time did not deny me that the simple economic potential of the Republic of Croatia is not such that it can withstand 427 municipalities as counterpart Cervar and another colleague say and are probably right. Neither is 100 or several cities real, in fact the optimum of the Republic of Croatia or this number of counties we also think is too much administration which simply our taxpayers cannot, do not have to follow. I warned on several occasions about this monotypic approach. It's actually that between a big city and a small municipality there's no important legal reason. This monotypic approach to our legislators doesn't make them realize that... This unfortunate Austro-Hungarian had cities of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd species and in 2004, we have municipalities and cities actually in the same, same regime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that actually we, to that end, don't get too tortured by it. I see that fellow palerić, that he sees it as a pretty much like this, a comedy remark but it is actually a key observation whether we can really jump out of some stereotypes once and decide that we have one political approach and that you really can't have the same approach to, as we already have to the city of Zagreb, a special law, that a whole series of cities in the Republic of Croatia also deserve a special approach. That we should certainly distinguish between big, medium and small cities and that there is really no reason for all the municipalities to exist but are exclusively political fiction, the inventions of certain political relations both in parliament or in the county. And it happens every time and now it repeats itself. It's very embarrassing for me, and it's not really polite for me to say that I now doubt what this bill says, but we also asked ourselves that once we had a new, or proposals here, we had a positive attitude, we didn't really vote for others, but that we had to admit to a clean feeling like this, feeling almost certain responsibilities, etc. Here, I'm a colleague of Mark's, and I remember what I suggested in the last assembly because he's a good friend of mine I voted for and I wasn't really sure if I was doing, doing, doing good or, or, or bad work. So now, you could also make a sin, so I don't know if I vote that this community or this community deserves to become a municipality or doesn't deserve it. And I really think that everyone who expects one radical but serious reform of the Croatian local self-government and administration is right and that we really agree whether this Swiss, Italian model, communes of 1000 inhabitants is optimal for Croatia, whether it is tax, taxpayers, at the cost of Croatia can endure or cannot endure it. And until the legislator tells us, until he brings those parameters, I think actually we here, we're actually politically joking and we're showing our political influence or power or we're trying not to know, to create new, new municipalities to which we're going to transfer national relations. Well, then there would have to be every party in every municipality, every municipality would have to have one thirty, thirty parties, and then we would repeat the elections as if we were conducting them for the national parliament, and in fact it was a whole other thing. And until the legislator offers a political approach, until he once tries to find these parameters that will separate a small municipality from a small town, a middle city, a big city, until he does exactly the right regional reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia we will be going round and we will now outwitted here and someone will show that I don't know how he knows the relations in that and that part of Croatia and will actually vote deeply by heart. Since I would not want to fall into this temptation and offend anyone, I think that we actually deserve that, that the administration of the Republic of Croatia offers us finally one whole approach, a political approach, and that we really do not have to transfer national relations, relations for elections for Parliament and a municipality that is called, which has a thousand or even fewer residents. Until that happens, I simply have to remain skeptical and I think these initiatives are actually failures and yes, and despite their good intentions, I have no doubt at all that, that I am not insulting anyone, but what I am familiar with is at least from my neighborhood that almost 90% of the municipalities are unable to actually self-finance and depend on the mercy of the state, and then that grace depends again on which party flag the municipality is aware. To avoid that, we'd be wiser and smarter if we were to pass a superfluous law that would fully regulate these relationships, which is one of the essential relationships. I think that communal system from the hundreds of municipalities we had until '92. The year was almost an optimum for Croatia with a small dorado, but for some political reasons, we gave up and now we have what we have and I'm afraid that as well as the number of municipalities will grow to an indefinite extent, the number of cities to an indefinite extent, and the number of counties would probably grow if they could, but obviously we're satisfied with that, and within that level, strange things happen, and the largest number of municipalities or cities actually have no material resources to function normally. To avoid this, Mr. Palaric, we expect from you either soon from the Government of the Republic of Croatia or from one of the parliamentary representatives or the representatives' clubs a whole, uh, analysis that we will then be able to really stand behind both civil and political, not in fact to outwit ourselves and actually vote without knowing what we are voting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10870	Thank you very much, colleague. I am obliged to read Article 214, paragraph 5, which speaks when a representative is given a warning. In paragraph 5, it is said: “if he demeans or insults the chairman or other MPs”, however... Okay, no offense to the president and vice president and vice president, but you said the secretary of state understood your approach as a comedy. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] He reacted to the Secretary of State by making it an insult, so I am obliged to remind you of Article 214, paragraph 5, and to give you a warning. I find that there are no more registered agents. At the scene of the debate, Proposer Mato Arlović called, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10871	Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Dear fellows and classmates. I thank all my colleagues and colleagues who have been involved in the debate on the draft law amending and supplementing the laws on areas of county, towns and municipalities. Of course, I especially thank those who used this bill to open up a debate on systematic approach to the local self-government problem of its organization, its regulation and of course its achievement. And he probably wouldn't have had the need on behalf of the proposing representatives to come out if counterpart Markovanovic hadn't said the lists were similar. I must warn that the obvious that in some places are the list of names of the rules of the same person. But all the signatures check themselves signatures different and each name is indicated the home number of citizens. Therefore, it can be checked if there is any doubt whatsoever that I had reason to suspect that any of it was not authentic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10872	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm just saying, we're done here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10873	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Areas of Countys, Cities and Municipalities, Proposal for a Law No. 63rd reading. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Prijdlog Law amending the Law on County, City and Municipal Areas in the Republic of Croatia, which was proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government, shall not be adopted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 76 votes for, against 20 and 3 abstentions, the said conclusion has been reached. Otherwise I would ask you counters to give me a sign when you've finished counting for, against, abstention, and MPs and MPs to until I get that sign, so I'm not saying that, that they've recorded for each group not to lower your hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10874	Next is the law of the 8th th of Daddy's agenda. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on areas of county, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 50; Proposer of the Law is representative of Ante Markov. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply to the adoption of this law, Articles 144 to 150. The Rules of Procedures were conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local, Substantial, Regional Self-Government. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received reports at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The applicant wishes to explain the proposal in addition. Here's a colleague of Markov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10875	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President, Mr Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. There are almost every time and I have had plenty of opportunities not only to discuss amendments and additions to the laws on urban areas, parishes and municipalities or the translation of the establishment of new municipalities. Every government, whatever the hell she is when a law like this comes to the agenda, she gets her hair on her head. And that's the figure that was before she stayed. And which, of course, needs a responsible open argument to discuss. But in that I believe it is not good, I think my colleague Kramarić has gone a little too far, in the acuity that he tried to talk about small and large. This story is never good small and big because when we say in New York which little Croatia here we have hair on our heads in the sabor. And when we say in this House that in some small municipality in Osijek live people who are unable to live alone or on an island there are municipalities that have a thousand inhabitants and shouldn't exist, then and they don't like it. The point is, this is a place, and we here represent all our municipalities, all our citizens, and their legitimate rights, which are primarily constitutional, legal, regardless of the possible reasons that we have no reason to humiliate or question all of them, no matter how many of them are citizens, no matter how many of them are launched by a particular initiative based on the law, that we here also say that they are wrong and that we place them on one or another. Knowing Mr. Secretary of State, I believe that he lost it when he said that the new cellulent needed a proposal for a law on local administration would regulate this area, define it. And in the interest of the citizens to coordinate it, on one side with the strengths, those spaces. And on the other hand, with citizen interference. And all together to be in the function of integrated development of the Republic of Croatia. When he probably said "no" with the slip. It is not good never to send such messages, I think from this high home we will all agree, because the experiences that have taken place in Croatia since 92th in 93rd talk first. We've always gotten used to criticizing everything, all exposed to criticism, even often unnecessary criticism. I think the experience of the Croatian local self-government has produced good results. It is these good results that have been initiated by those citizens who could not enjoy such circumstances that could not have had the quality of their lives within their municipalities under their quotes because they live in their own country. We can't put it into some other order of size and value right now. They also deserve to have the legal and constitutional right to do so. But of course when you talk about it in principle, I am absolutely attached to all those who say we make criteria maybe small municipalities can remain general but perhaps there can be no chief or mayor professional there. It may have to be a volunteer, but of course the communal part of the order, people who maintain the communal purity of order in place, they have to be paid. And the experiences of the European Charter of Local Self-Government are about different experiences. No linear experiences. There are no experiences we can cross. But it is our responsibility to find the best unit of measures for each municipality, so for all those citizens who want to organize, motivate and organise their lives in accordance with the law. And therefore as a legitimateist, I am an advocate that it is good to argue that it does not harm the debate on any of the municipalities because it is a debate about all of us. Of course, I agree with the government's assessment that, as soon as possible, everything should be done to resolve the scale of the local elections in full and before the regular local elections, or the way in which local self-government and administration will be set up, and what will be the tendency of all those living in the Republic. That is why the initiative, which of course came from citizens living in the area of the town of Tribunja, is also a place that lies within the town of Vodice. There's also a fellow mayor. The initiative came precisely in a way that the citizens of the town of Tribunja expressed their initiative within their local board, made an initiative to get support in the city of Vodice, meaning, from the city council. To this end, they submitted a proposal to the Sibenik Knin County Assembly, which also gave them a positive opinion. So we can't claim for these citizens that they did something wrong. We can say that we need to find a legal framework on which these municipalities and such municipalities may, in the course of regular elections, have those rights that they belong under the law. No more or less. Because there is obviously no reason for you to separate yourself from any city or municipality he gives you consent. When that same county does the same thing. When there's one unity in that place to make it happen, so who would be here for days with us saying that they're wrong. We can say that we need to make relationships. I absolutely agree with the secretary of state he's absolutely right would be nascaratous, ugly to pass a law that would result in that municipality going to the polls in three months. Of course it's unnecessary. She should go to the polls when regular elections are up. Next year when they are. So let's talk a little bit about understanding each other, because we often talk about not getting along, unargumentedly wanting to create a name that someone can be right and that someone regardless of the numbering is more right someone less. It's not a constitutional category. So I'm in favour of a completely legitimate approach. I also support the position expressed by the secretary of state and, absolutely, if I have to build on the bill in the first reading, it is this instrument that there is no need for the municipality to be legally appointed before the new regular elections, but of course I want to bet first of all that no one in this House can challenge the right of these citizens, because that is their right that everyone else or most of them have used. I also suggest that this is what I have suggested on committees that, as it is done and because the material has just gone into regular procedure, there is sufficient time to look at the government's position, that the government is ultimately showing how it intends and how it wants to set up a new picture of the formation of local self-government of municipalities and cities that there is just enough time between first and second readings, and that the second reading will give up the vote and that the Government undertakes to take this municipality into account when adopting the final bill. Therefore, my intentions and intentions are not tied to any other motivation but to support and to make my commitment as a representative in the context of those citizens who asked me to help them achieve what they hold to be their legitimate right. There's one more thing I'd like to say. In both the past government and the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament, there was a discrepancy between the government's position and the position of this House, and I have to tell you that almost with a saying, or whatever the government did not agree with the establishment of new units of local self-government, this House expressed and wanting to show where its place is and how the House of People should be manifested to citizens who legitimately launched the initiative, this House always voted and supported the units of local self-government and administration, regardless of what the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was almost identical in terms of reasoning and the view was the same. These citizens of ours are grateful to us today and trust all those who were then and who voted you helped to better live unrelated to political colors and commitments they are grateful to everyone and precisely because of this with special sensitivity we should treat similar and such initiatives and I believe that the interest of the government and the interest of our citizens can be found together and I believe in this very way Mr. Secretary of State that we can reconcile both the interests of citizens and the views of the Government who, of course, also wish to support the well-being of all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10876	Thank you very much. One correction to the incorrect quote Mr. Zastavnik Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10877	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I had no idea that I was offended by my friend Markov, and I did not say that these municipalities were wrong, far from that, but I was actually worried that they were not able to self-finance, that these key problems were actually emerging. And when you observe these demands, then you usually need them... These requirements usually come from ideas that suit them, but in fact they forget very easily a whole series of problems that arise in the problem of infrastructure, transport, connection and all of those things that never actually calculate into that cost that is actually necessary when something new is set up, and then they would just actually try to please those good, nice things from some former relationship, and forget that a lot of things actually have to be paid. That is why I once again insist that a new whole law be passed that would first and foremost be repeated by the Secretary of State who found himself unnecessarily offended, and I didn't think of insulting him, and that is the political approach. Because let me say if the 1895 legislator could see the cities of the first, second and third species, so it's not possible that we can't see the trees from the forest in 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10878	Thank you very much. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? They don't want to. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10879	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In addition to everything I said about the principle that it is neither the time nor the way to resolve this issue individually, I must stress that the government is not against citizens' initiatives, and perhaps from this speaker would have told the people of Tribune that we are not in principle against their initiative and that their views will be considered in the overall solution proposed by the Government. However, the government is seriously working on reforming local self-government, and we will also oppose these partial cosmetic solutions that are in the process, and I will talk about it when it comes to the agenda. I'd just like to say there's no concern about the extraordinary or early local elections. The government has decided on this, the government wants to stabilise the country's political system, further stabilise and regular elections will be on a regular basis as provided for by the law, and until then there is enough time to fully regulate local self-government. It is no secret that the government particularly wants to regulate large cities that are about 40, over 40,000 inhabitants for Croatian opportunities, that intensively in cooperation with both domestic and foreign experts is working on a model of functional association of municipalities mainly these small ones about the financing of certain activities and projects. When we set it up, when the Law on Local Self-Government is passed, then we will consider initiatives to set up municipalities with a slightly smaller population. We'll take care of everything. We are not against the citizens of Tribunj or against the citizens of Tar as well as all the initiatives that will be crystallized in the past few months, but we want to do so directly before the elections and in the whole way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10880	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10881	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP will support this proposal and I would not agree with these words, Mr Secretary of State, if it were partial and cosmetic solutions. These are the proposals stemming from the Constitution under the applicable laws, and it does not say anywhere that a 300-proposal package should be collected, so this would be some sort of big solution. So the citizens acted in accordance with existing laws, they did what they had to do. So we see that this proposal has the support of the first citizens themselves, the second municipality, the third county and the last filter that actually denies everything that is said here that financially they will not endure, but that is the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. So, I was in the last meeting of the chairman of the Committee on Local and Regional, that is, regional self-government, and we, we followed the rules, that no one should give in to anyone who doesn't have the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. We've got all this here. We have citizens who have their will. We are the people's representatives, they are the people, this is the supreme legislative body. In accordance with the laws passed here, they took the initiative. We say no now, you can't because you're waiting for full reform. These are partial cosmetic procedures because we only have two or three today. Then we have to come up with a proposal when 700, 300 or 850 or 25 can only be discussed. So it's not about that at all. Besides, there are as many here well know, very different experiences in the world, from France to Romania and according to the criteria generally accepted and scientific and experience situation is in Croatia somewhere in the middle. So we have, there are a lot of smaller units of local self-government than there will be these if we accept them that are proposed and much larger. There are different experiences, but the basic right of citizens to local self-government is to lower as much authority as possible to the level of people where they live. Unless it's dysfunctional, if it's in line with economic, democratic and all other logics. It seems to me that all these preconditions are met here, and that is why we are supporting this proposal not as a proposal, but we are supporting citizens who, in accordance with the law, have expressed their initiative. What doesn't make it impossible, there were arguments, he was right, when he said, in the last term there was another government, in which my party also played a very important role, going with similar arguments. But here we got the strength to oppose the views of the then government, when we as the people's representatives thought we should support the people's initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10882	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative and Vice President Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10883	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I must say at the beginning that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will not support this proposal, and in short I will try to explain why. First of all, we in the Croatian Democratic Community are of course able to keep to the initiative whether it is 50 citizens, 100 citizens or 150 thousand citizens or 400 thousand citizens, and no one can transfer us to oppose anything that is the legal right of any group of citizens. However, at the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community, we believe that neither this proposal on amending and supplementing the Law on County, City and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia has been selected nor the right timing nor the right analysis, and we have heard from the Government's representatives that in fact there is a whole law that would include existing proposals from certain cities or municipalities. Under the current law, we know that the establishment of a new unit of local self-government can propose a representative body or one third of the citizens living in the area and that it is necessary to obtain the opinion of citizens, the county assembly and the consent of the Ministry of Finance. Let's be open here, so let's say that often the county congregations are not sufficiently analysed by some proposals that give their consent to the initiative of a particular group of citizens or to the initiative of individuals. However, in the Croatian Democratic Community, we believe that, in addition to what I said, we do not consider that a good or thorough analysis has been made, often the functioning of smaller municipalities and smaller towns, including medium cities, in general and in the ability of the team to lead the respective municipality or city. It often happens to us that municipalities that have the consent of the Ministry of Finance, and this is the part about self-financing often fall into dubiosis and as the esteemed representative Nino Cervar said, comes again from these areas for, as he said, self-containing those municipalities. Well, here's a few examples of smaller municipalities and cities, so there's one in my county in the area of special state interest or special state care where there was also this initiative. In the '90s, this initiative was accepted and here, in the 14 years they had, they entered the Guiness Book of Records, they had 10 chiefs, precisely for this reason that no good, fundamental analysis was made, and in particular that analysis of the possibility of teamwork, i.e. the possibility and selection of proper staff to manage such municipalities. What Mr. Marco mentioned, that such municipalities might have volunteers, it seems to me that this only pulls away one indifference, I would say, in the functioning of such municipalities. To recall, the fact is that the Republic of Croatia became a full member of the Council of Europe, on 6 November 96, and took over certain commitments and ratified the Charter of Local Self-Government. And one of the essential principles of the Charter is to ensure the financial autonomy of local authorities, and it stresses that common sources of funding with central government are not their own resources and that this also endangers their autonomy. So, not only are we for formal reasons, and we didn't receive or receive in materials, or maybe I didn't get the club representatives, the decision of the County of Sibenik and the Ministry of Finance. Not only are we formally against that decision, but we are also for these reasons that I have mentioned at the outset. Of course, in all terms, but in connection with the fact that local elections in the entire country will be held soon, it is possible to reiterate the view that the Croatian Democratic Community is not opposed to strengthening local self-government in Croatia, but the proposed changes are now being assessed by the meetings and unnecessary ones. I remind you once again of the timing. It seems to me that it might be good or desirable to reopen this topic sometime after the new year, that is, after the local elections are actually coming to us, and in this context, once again consider the initiative to set up new municipalities that are, here today, on the agenda of this Assembly. So, once again, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community at the moment, therefore, due to the timing, due to insufficient analysis, and also because in preparation the whole law will not support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Area of Countys, Cities and Municipalities given by the distinguished representative Ante Markov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10884	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS Mr. Agent Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10885	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, since we've actually agreed to a principle debate, it's good to hear the HSS' position on the initiative to set up new municipalities. I think it is illusory to expect the legislator to prescribe all possible regulations which could or might lead to the establishment of new municipalities. I am a living witness when the first decentralisation and establishment of municipalities began, where my municipality in the first proposal of the administrative proposal, which, which the administration's proposal drew on the map, drew what it liked, was not intended to exist. Following the initiative, it was established and we are some 4, 5. municipalities in the Republic of Croatia according to conditions, modes, etc., all those criteria that need to be met by one local administration and self-government without having the conditions by which some think and that is the number of inhabitants, sizes, etc., so that local administrations should be set up, so municipalities should be set up. So I'm surprised that when we come down to the principle level, we generally support in a concrete proposal, it's not time, it's time when people ask us to, it's time to get the conditions because what conditions are said under the applicable law should be obtained. They are obtained, people want it, they want it and they do it in one way or another, I assure you because I was a participant where the roads were closed, where the bridges were blocked, where x things were done needlessly instead of accepting the citizens' initiative which, if justified, should be met with understanding. That's why the HSS club when one such initiative comes to watch from the point of view whether they as a territorial community make sense primarily. In that I think whether they are some kind of cultural environment, is they belonging to a certain territorial structure, whether they are celebrating social life by their principles or by their actions, cultural life is whether they cultivate some of their customs specific that others do not cultivate if they were in such an unnatural alliance, and there is one, and they are really wondering every time why each community wants to separate or stand alone. There are reasons, it's never for no reason or the larger so-called. the parent municipality in which they are not fulfilling their tasks by the basis of the Constitution, the laws and regulations which they are or those citizens think they can do more alone if that is their right, if they do so right in the way they did it institutionally, then it is the least we can do, and that is to recognise their status. The promoter pointed out and should support him in this sense to support the government's initiative, the secretary of state said in what way he was thinking, but I can assure you in advance if you think of the number of inhabitants to tailor the municipalities, if you think of it in some way, not to say now because you would recognize the way in which you are involved, then I think that we are going the wrong way, each of the municipalities should be individually analysed, whether they have church, veterinarian, doctor, school library, those all institutions that they need, whether they have water, sewerage, whether they have all this expensive, and then say these have conditions, these have no and I am glad to think about the conditions that there are small municipalities that are only as cultural autonomy enough for themselves for their basic needs where people can organise, that there must be local communities, because they are municipalities that can be gas distributors, water, etc., have their economically some of the city that there are 100 people in the city, so that we have to be able to talk about the town, so that we can be able to talk about the city. So, we don't have to have any ideas and our perspectives in which it might work, so on behalf of the HSS, I suggest that while the initiative is under the existing law, and we now stick to it, we accept the initiative and limit the start of the structure for the next local elections, without any delay whether it has it or not. If, in the meantime, we adopt a new law where it must be re-edited in a new way and we agree on it either re-voted or I don't know in what way that agreement falls into the water and that unit of local self-government because it will still not work until that day until legitimate representatives of the government are elected until it achieves its incomes and it begins to meet the needs of the population. Otherwise, the hardest thing to explain to the population in the field is you have the right, but the time has not yet come, when their time has come, so they've been waiting for their time who knows how long, there wasn't one who would run the initiative, the initiative is here and it would be good to support it. So I welcome that there is at all a debate on the structure and way of forming units of local administration, but let's not set such criteria in such a way that from 420 there are new 200ths because we survived this structure, we are witnesses where large municipalities when the funds were being poured into the central registers never the edge parts were getting their share of the money, it remained in the center. We look forward to the local administration to decentralisation finally and central government because we are all talking about decentralisation from what of our obligations and we know how the local community that obliges us, and in fact remains centralized, and it is distributed in a way that we have all witnessed and in the adoption of this budget that the local community is calling for funds, that in one way where we have advocated the uniform development of regions and areas, it is actually a question of whether it can be achieved in this way and therefore a lot of need to be discussed, ways and views for... the central authorities one look at it, however, from a local perspective quite another point of view, so here is the proposal of the HSS is that while the initiative comes by law and the way that the local self-government unit, or citizens, or territorial community, while it is being instructed, a proposal by the representatives to accept that it is clearly not to start, not provoking extraordinary choices, new costs, but during all of this being built into everything. Therefore, I think that the HSS remains on principle independent of the size of the local community on territorial principles rather than on the functionality of a particular social community whether it has its own justification or not and these two proposals that they are there absolutely have every assumption that they can function on the satisfaction of their citizens who have and have proposed such an initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10886	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate of 10 minutes, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10887	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here's to not repeating myself, so again it's a small new community that, unlike the last municipality we talked about, has no petition, no opinion of the Ministry of Finance, no petition on another occasion. As far as I know, the Tribunj area has very few employees, people deal most with tourism and fishing, so we can ask ourselves how many of that comes, how many would we come into some kind of community register. We know from tourism that only a small part of the money is collected by the tax administration and everything else ends up in private pockets. So I guess we better not talk about fishing, there might be some profits, we're lucky there is, and it can only be maintained with the help of the government, the state, so I think we should really do an analysis in these municipalities, what are the number of employees, if they have any businesses, some industry, something we're dealing with to see if it's even possible. I agree that so far there has been a lot of things that have not been well done, that there are some municipalities with 300 and several inhabitants, more than 300, 500, 800, so that there are small municipalities that really have no conditions, perhaps have the justifications of those municipalities that are located here in areas of special national interest or somewhere in the mountainous areas, but where there are a little denser settlements, where larger settlements, I don't think it's very good. I repeat, here's an application to make a real secretary of state to actually run an analysis of the municipalities, including cities, because we have small cities that are in no more favourable situation than the municipalities. I'm not so that somehow we just shut them down. But I believe by transferring decentralisation that some municipalities will likely cease to exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10888	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10889	Thank you very much. Well, I wouldn't answer for a correction of an incorrect quote, but an honorary representative, otherwise the head of the municipality, and I have to say, I've come forward for a simple reason. If all municipalities in Croatia were as rich as St. Sunday, I'd be the first to do that. Unfortunately, though, we need to know that some municipalities also function without large funds that they do not have and without entrepreneurs in St. Sunday. So, we have to review what our people want, and yet I would say a complete statement in this part, because if everyone were to compare with St. On Sunday, few municipalities would be in Croatia today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10890	Thank you very much. No corrections. And the last one in the debate came from Mr Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10891	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I join the thinking and statements of colleagues who seek and, of course, the explanation of the secretary of state that it is not the time, because these individual cases are that we solve the case from session to session, but I also think it would be good and useful to get one full analysis and to solve this problem of establishing new municipalities in a unique way, but, of course, making sure that it is on time, given that we have next year at this time local elections. I therefore support this proposal, to make a systematic and complete proposal for a law on territorial defence, on the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. Of course we HDZ support and respect citizens' initiatives, and citizens' proposals and citizens' opinions. If that were the case, we can confirm this because this initiative, the initiative in the town of Tribunj, which is part of the town of Vodice, has just come from the members of the HDU, is the best proof that the City Council of the City of Vodice, in which the Croatian Democratic Community has adopted this initiative in power and has given a positive opinion on this initiative. It was also done by the County Assembly of Sibenik-Kninska County, where HDZ also in power. Therefore, we in the Croatian Democratic Community support the initiative and respect the will and opinion of the citizens, and I think that in this very way, we will also support this proposal from the Government, of course and support this initiative as representatives of our county, we representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, but we think it would be good, that it would be rational for the government to come out with a full analysis and to make a systematic and complete proposal of the Law on Territorial Defence by making sure that it is on time, given that we have local elections next year at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10892	Thank you very much. I'm sorry there's still a representative, Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10893	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I've answered the previous point, but since it's the same subject, I don't think I should, because I'm going to speak in principle, well. I would like to take part in this debate on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Areas, Countys, Cities and Municipalities, without contesting the right of individual units of local self-government, and in this case the Tribunal for eviction from the Municipality of Vodice, as I see that all necessary indications of the inhabitants, citizens, etc. have been collected. My contribution to this debate will go in a different direction, which is that this Assembly is globally and fully looking at the map of Croatia and setting the limit of deforestation and creation, the number of new municipalities. No one disputed that the new local structure of the county, cities and municipalities was a full hit, it was visible at every step. Many new municipalities, but cities have also made a major step towards building infrastructure, economy, culture, environmental protection, etc. However, it is clear that everything must have the right measure, otherwise excessive deforestation and the establishment of municipalities will turn into their opposite and brake of the development of a particular environment, as well as Croatia. When a new local structure was conducted in the county, towns and municipalities with many commendations, there were also criticisms, and they were the most applied, given the size of the country and the number of inhabitants of too many municipalities and cities. If we compare ourselves with other neighbouring and European countries, it is clear that Croatia cannot have just slightly smaller units of local self-government than for example one French. Now if we compare ourselves with neighbouring and European countries, I think it is clear to everyone that already Croatia with more than 560 units of local self-government is a kind of recorder. We already have a municipality with less than 200 inhabitants. Instead of analysing the situation after years of experience, and that most units of local self-government which cannot act independently which do not even have any financial legal or other professions, and cannot function in accordance with the law, it is proposed to remove and attach them to neighbouring larger and more financially stable units of local self-government, of course, unless there are specific reasons for the existence of individual units and municipalities such as geographical distance from the centre, cultural historical reasons, etc. But then it should be said no matter the price, that and such units should survive. Here we have today a request for the establishment of three new municipalities, so one has to wonder where the end is and who needs and benefits and how many units should ultimately be in Croatia? For example, I remember, and I was myself, there were also conflicting examples, though rare, that one municipality had implemented everything in accordance with the law to join a larger unit of local self-government because it could not function. But no such case has passed in the current practice of this Parliament. Why? Well, it is clear that politics, politicians and parties are afraid of losing votes, when they justifiably abolish some of the municipalities while they try and look forward to submitting a proposal to the Parliament for the establishment of new municipalities. He believes nearly a third of local self-government units are too high. It is high time that we, as advocates, thought seriously and responsibly and said at last where this is actually leading us. I therefore propose that the Croatian Parliament assigns the Government to carry out a serious and professional analysis in this area, to draw up criteria by which some municipalities should be abolished and attached to larger ones and which should be established by the same criteria if there are still such. All matters should be taken into account from the geographical integrity of the historical and cultural heritage, financial independence, population numbers, distances from the centre, etc., etc. All in order to make all the progress and even development, but also to have the state as a service of citizens approaching every citizen, and not like today, we have cases and the environment to travel 50 kilometers in one direction to the civil servant. Because of all of this and personal belief, I cannot support any of these proposals without a complete solution that should be drawn up and proposed by the Government and everything else seems to me to be counterproductive and will not be in the service of the political development of Croatia and the improvement of its citizens. Already, a large number of small municipalities, due to insufficient financial capacity, are unable to carry out those tasks that are described by the local self-government unit because they have only to pay the commissioner. And how about tomorrow when they have to do those jobs that are meant for her decentralisation, we can only imagine that. That is why I cannot really support these proposals for establishing new units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10894	Thank you very much. Does the Proposer want it? Here you go, Mr. Agent Ante Markov, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10895	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State! I thank everyone for the debate. She showed that yet, as it seems at first, there is no problem in nature. It is not good to talk about the will of citizens and the constitutional and legal position of each legislative proposal, not by making arguments but by giving views as it seems. In fact, it will be very difficult regardless of all the criteria that we agree on because for someone or a municipality or a city to establish that he has a right or that he is within what his colleague now said and who has experience in local self-government that is right because it is very difficult, it is not measured by miles or meters or by money or by any other very measurable criteria. It measures itself, measured by a certain practice that it was, measured by the quality of life of citizens and measured by our own commitment to build our homeland. So let's not mathematically discuss what our citizens want. Today they want these, tomorrow they'll want them. They're all our citizens, and let's not treat their needs differently. I think that we should remain at the level of responsibility for us as individuals but by respecting the dignity of this high home and this as he used to say, and as Mr. Shakespeare spoke, good parliamentary practice gives us sometimes a guideline and when we don't see it, good parliamentary practice has always given us a sense of responsibility for this high home that, whether the government supported or did not support the views of citizens, the initiatives that came from citizens, the civil structures this home has always explicitly given for citizens' rights. Of course, it does not exclude the possibility or reduce the position or in any way want to destabilize the government and the projects it wants to do, which is the entire system of organisation of local self-government, and I believe that, as I said, it can be reconciled. There is enough time between the first and second readings that the government is also manifested and to make a full programme, and to bring everything that will naturally be necessary if we all agreed that if the regular elections are for almost a year that we have enough time to do so. Therefore, each other does not rule out. In the end, I thank all those who supported this, thank those who gave little support to one and gave up. I thank those who think and need support but didn't say it, and I thank all those who will vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10896	I thank the motionary. I'm closing the debate. The vote will be later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10897	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, towns and municipalities, first reading, P.Z. No. Fifty. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on County, City and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, proposed by Agent Ante Markov, for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government, to the reports of the working bodies. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Okay, thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 79 votes in favour, and 18 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10898	Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the bankruptcy law - Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the CNS-PGS, first reading of P.Z. No. 51 You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply, pursuant to Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10899	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues! I am not going to talk about the reasons, arguments and figures for which this change is proposed. I am not going to talk about it because it's all written in the text itself, or the argument, as well as the response to the government's testimony that you received, which is normally negative. But let me try, with one true story, to illustrate the motives and reasons of this proposal and what it brings with it or what it might bring about in relation to what we now have. Not so long ago, two, three months ago, a worker at a textile factory went to work in the morning in the mood, cheered up, hailed the port and asked him, "What are you so happy about today?" - "So you don't, the youngest power has given birth to a third grandchild and today there will be a salary at the firm we've been waiting for six months." This sour smiles, greets him and lets him go, and when a man comes to the dressing room, a fellow nervous, angry, screaming and yelling, he says, "What is it, people?". He says, "There won't be any pay." - "Well, as it won't be, they said now," - "There's more, yesterday a bankruptcy procedure was opened on the company." He says, "Well, I'm a few months away from retirement, at least it's from a bankruptcy procedure that pays those six salaries, and it contributes to what's very important to me to exercise the right to a full pension, and hell, if it's not today." He says, "That's not exactly what you're saying. You won't get your six salary because in the first higher payment order, the experts say it's just the last three salaries and that's two-thirds of those salaries you're entitled to. You won't get a full salary contribution but only on those amounts and there won't be any severances in full but only 1/3 of what you're legally entitled to, and then if the bankruptcy manager manages to sell out a piece of property, goods or anything else, it will either be money or we're asking for more than we owe. We also said that the bankruptcy manager would receive his solid salary regardless of the bankruptcy mass, regardless of the first or lower payment order, but there are labour claims that are not where they used to be and that, in order to make full contributions, the law should change anyway. Later, others realized that even the supplementary pension insurance we call the second pillar or capitalised savings, when the worker himself wanted to pay the Peace Fund of those famous 5% cannot make the payment, could not pay those last five, six or seven months so that when he retired and from the second pillar he could use the supplementary pension rights. Because that's the rules. Until last year until 8 months, workers' wages back three months to 2/3 were intended from business costs, in the 8th month of last year were all deleted from business costs and transferred to the first higher payment order, and the other workers' claims, therefore, all the late salaries but also all other contributions and all other equipment and benefits that, either by law or collective contract, workers were entitled to, were transferred to the general payment... The same moment or the same days or months of eradicating the Labour Act of Article 86, which created problems for workers who remained working in bankruptcy companies at the expense of those who left work and the trade unions then agreed to delete Article 86. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The labour law but then the government's negotiators didn't tell them that the other workers' claims would be transferred to the general payment ret. It happened a little later when the Labour Act was already amended. In response to this proposal by the Government, two are serious warnings and it says that other than legal, this is a sensitive political and social issue, and that is correct, and I agree that this is a highly sensitive and political and social issue and the additional argument is that by changing the bankruptcy law in the 8th month of last year, all those who want to be charged with what is left of it, so other creditors who are looking for these companies have reached a balance. There is no number of arguments for this claim. Although the law has been applied for 7.8 months, no one in this country has been following what happens after such sensitive ones as it says in the response of the Government of Political and Social Change. In the 8th month of this year, there will be a year of application of the amended bankruptcy law. Now it's April, and if you give in this law to another reading he'll come to order somewhere in the 10th month, it means that then the government could get data or from someone else that was going on in the bankruptcy proceedings in 12 months of his application how much improved the collection of other creditors and how important it is that jobs in the companies that were in bankruptcy were saved thanks to this change made in the 8th month last year. And if it turns out that at least 10% of the jobs were saved, that at least 10 workers remained working in the companies that were restructured after the bankruptcy I would withdraw the bill on behalf of the Club and we wouldn't be in another reading. If such data comes and if it is shown because it is the price worth suffering for saving jobs. But from the data of everyone we had from the state audit further prove that in fact companies in bankruptcy lose jobs and that bankruptcy managers or when they remain and without one single worker in the factory regularly charge their regular monthly incomes and, of course, the other creditors are extremely little able to charge and that the only ones who profit from such bankruptcy proceedings are those who are the same by changing the law in the last year put by me, by my own personal court in an extremely privileged position. Another serious remark from the government is that it is proposed to re-act the law so as to apply it since the 8th month, since the changes were made. If this is a serious, legal problem, Article 2 of our proposal may immediately apply and enter into force 8 days from the publication in the "National Journal". To clear every legal mess, slow, vague or sensitive. But just as one was negotiated last year as part of the Economic and Social Council and after the trade unions agreed to amend the Labour Act, there was a change in the bankruptcy law, and now on the Legislative Committee, which you also had opportunities to see from the obvious reports of the Committee on Economy, I quote, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reported to the members of the Committee that during the course of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Economic and Social Council, the result of which should be the failure of the Banking Law. With the day before yesterday, no social partner within the Economic and Social Council has any idea of these negotiations and does not know what kind of changes are being proposed and no one has given them any proposal, let alone a document in which changes to the bankruptcy law would go but, therefore, it has been confirmed that the Government will propose to amend the bankruptcy law. If he's going to propose, then it's hard to accept the claim that negotiations are under way. And I end up with the next one, with this change in the bankruptcy law and the inability to pay II. The pension insurance rate by workers has been independently damaged by the pension and health fund on an annual basis if you want an average of around 16 million kuna. These are all the funds that are missing when these workers, and a large number of them out of bankruptcy end up retired. So it's also a financial, state-of-the-art interest to get some things... It is clear to me that after the government and this bill has been shown, it will not get a majority, a parliamentary majority, it will not get a sufficient number of hands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But please, when the Government's proposal comes, and please, when we're having another discussion, don't forget just two things. At this point in Croatia, there are 4.5 thousand people in bankruptcy companies. About 4.5 thousand people. They have these salaries, and the three he now has the right to, only with 2/3 of the heights that are more paid, or the first payment order, one of them is a question of family existence. And we're telling these people that other claims and contributions to pension and health insurance are coming true, you know how. If through these mechanisms protection of workers' rights in bankruptcy proceedings when we know the data now and when we see that the changes we made last year have not given positive effects because we haven't saved these companies, and God forbid I'm wrong and that the data at 8 months are different. Please let him go to another reading, we'll discuss him at the 9th or at the 10th month when there's a year of application of last year's change. And that way we'll all be in, sure that the right unions that warn about the devastating consequences of these changes last year or the government that claims, and she's gone and this one has now made the balance and the same position of all the believers in the bankruptcy process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10900	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. On behalf of the Justice Committee, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10901	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At its 3rd session, held on 20 April 2004, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the bankruptcy law, which was submitted by HNS-PGS Representatives' Club in its act on 24 February 2004. The Committee shall be based on the powers laid down in Article 73. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament under the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the bankruptcy law discussed as a parent body. The Committee also held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which does not support the bill. In the opening statement of the proposal's representatives, it was pointed out that the proposed amendments and additions to the law clearly determine the requirements of several payment lines, to introduce also claims for individualised capitalised savings. A representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that the Government did not support this proposal and remained with all the allegations he stated in his opinion. Without a discussion, the Committee for Justice with 3 votes in favour, 7 votes against and one abstention decided to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament: no draft law on amending and supplementing the bankruptcy law is adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10902	Thank you very much. Does a government official not want to take his word for it? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS-PGS Club, Mr. Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Nothing... On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Gordan Jandrokovic. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10903	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will not accept the draft law amending and supplementing the bankruptcy law of the HNS-PGS Club promoter, as this law does not answer key questions and key problems related to bankruptcy issues. The aim of the applicant is to amend, in their opinion, the inappropriate treatment of workers' claims on bankrupt companies, which is regulated by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the bankruptcy law. And the fact is that the position of workers in companies who are in bankruptcy is difficult, unfair, and sometimes tragic, and it was a really moving story of a fellow Lesar who told it on behalf of the promoter. But also employees of bankrupt companies are not the only victims of bankruptcy. In addition to them, the workers of the bankrupt believers and all the other believers have the right to be calmed down in the charge of their claims. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that neither employees of companies that are bankrupt nor workers of creditors, almost none of them manage to collect their claims. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club considers that the rights of workers, the legal person over whom bankruptcy is opened, should also be protected through institutes such as the Workers' Search Insurance Fund, as provided for in the applicable law. We are also pleased to learn that negotiations are under way between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Economic and Social Council on amendments to the bankruptcy law. Furthermore, the proposal for a club, the proposed law of the HNS-PGS Club, does not mention the problem of the efficiency of bankruptcy managers, does not mention the problem of their extremely high fees and quality control of their business and does not mention the possible limitation of the duration of bankruptcy, which are also topics that should be regulated better. For these reasons, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will not support this proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the bankruptcy law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10904	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Party of Retirement Club, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10905	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I can understand the government's motives for why she did this. I can also understand the Committee's motives for why they made these decisions, but I am not simply dealing with these decisions as a man who has had personal experience for the past 4 years dealing with bankruptcy. So they're not all so black and it's not true that nothing in bankruptcy is being charged, or maybe it's a speciality in Istria. The fact is that in the past four years I have lived and shared fate and their problems and sufferings at least two thousand people in bankruptcy in Istria. Of these people today, there are 6 hundred employees in companies that are bought or are doing business, doing business afterwards, after bankruptcy. We have an obligation as a social state to deal with the weaker in the process, in the process of work, the weaker in the labour market, and the weaker those who rent, or those who sell their labour means that they do not have their own resources and are not entrepreneurs and will never be entrepreneurs in Croatian society. You need to understand life in constant stress, which is with all those people who are wondering if tomorrow the company will do business or not? What brings us bankruptcy and whether something remains to work or not? I claim from my personal experience that the past law, the law before the last changes was better, was better. He was more human by that, by that part of the weaker on the market, on the quest for work. The fact is that the Committee has also found that there is a lot of illogicalness which must be corrected in bankruptcy procedures or which were previously better defined. That's why I can't deal with the simple rejection of this bankruptcy law, but you'll see in the end what I suggest. It's my duty to warn myself of certain shortcomings and some, uh, illogicalities that are happening. So because of all these sufferings that go by, I believe that workers deserve as in all democratic and social European countries privileged status in the collection of their claims. And a point. If there's someone we want to look up to, then that's what we need to ensure. No, no funds for, for, to guarantee claims, that's our invention. It doesn't exist. So they definitely have a priority. Of course, if there isn't, then there's a problem and there are guarantees from the state. Where do we lose? Where we don't have concepts, strategies, where we don't respect basic principles? Prove the reason for the bankruptcy. Why is it mandatory for workers, or when workers to launch a bankruptcy proposal, to open a proof procedure? Why when the director opens up bankruptcy or carries a proposal with automation, bankruptcy is opened. Why is it that when a supplier submits a request for the opening of a bankruptcy, it shall be subject to review? So in checking out the bankruptcy reasons. Why is it that when the Administrative Council of the Croatian Privatisation Fund or the Ministry of Finance or the Tax Administration submits an application, bankruptcy is opened within 15 days? So I'm talking about unprincipledness. I'm talking about mixing some other interests into, in tax, bankruptcy proceedings and I have a feeling that in certain situations there is a kind of interest in opening up bankruptcy. So that binds us. Living with phenomena like this obliges us to clear these phenomena up, to speak openly to each other. Don't be telling you a story. The accounting law states that all disputes which the creditor has against anyone at the time of the opening of the bankruptcy shall be settled by the jurisdiction of the trade court. One piece of information, three ministries have changed, three ministries have changed, the case of TEOPO for the employment of disabled people from Pula. He demanded of the Development and Reconstruction Ministry while the minister was Jure Radic certain money from the ministry. And the lawsuit is at the municipal court in Zagreb. The bankruptcy was opened in 2000, the second minister, the Ministry of Public Works of Reconstruction and Construction Radimir Cacic, came, the lawsuit is still an municipality court in Zagreb. We also have a third ministry and a third minister. The Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Development Traffic and Mr Bozidara Kalmet, the procedure therefore still at the municipal court in Zagreb. So I'm talking about principle now. Let's move on. We have witnessed very frequent amendments and additions to the Statutory Law, and since 1996 we have had four changes in total. The dates were carried out in July of last year, so about eight months ago, it is certain that such frequent changes and additions of the law are not good because in the world where we seek laws do not change every few months but last for decades. Which is the cause of such phenomena. Is this about unquality legislative solutions that are then in life practice inconclusive? Either this is about good legal solutions, which we do not implement or apply selectively in various different subjective weaknesses. So instead of changing our weaknesses, we resort to easier solutions in terms of changes and addition of existing legal solutions. This is very bad and dangerous because the bad law but which has been consistently implemented is better than the good of the law that is not implemented or selectively applied depending on various intersessions. I think the causes of frequent changes and additions to bankruptcy law should be sought for one reason or another. I therefore believe that, in practice, we must be tough, so that if you want to carry out the existing legislative solutions, and the amendments and additions to the existing law should only be accessed after very studio-based analysis, which will be able to identify realistically possible objectives which are intended to be achieved by bankruptcy law. Not that he's a list of wishes that are realistically unfulfilled. What then, in practice, often leads to its non-implementation, or leads to a situation where interested parties assess what is realistic, or what is some kind of broader economic interest. Which, in practice, should be subject to the interpretation of otherwise clear legal provisions, we have frequent cases of judgment by courts of the same situation. To determine the positive and negative effects of so far's divination of bankruptcy law. Realise objective and subjective causes of non-application, as well as possible non-applicability of certain provisions of bankruptcy law. I would have started since the last amendment and the addition of the bankruptcy law adopted in August 2003, so eight months ago. Like all changes so far, these have gone towards achieving the goal of ensuring a faster implementation of the bankruptcy law. I've been checking all the paperwork. In more places, the management of Otto's rapid resolution of the bankruptcy process was the basic motive to go into changes and additions to the bankruptcy law, in August of last year. That's how it is, for example. Article 27 provides that the bankruptcy procedure is to be terminated within two years and only exceptionally may take longer. However, even today, we have a situation where bankruptcy ends only in exceptional cases within 2 years. And the rule is they last a lot longer. We're talking about bankruptcy where there's some property, so the hay is about bankruptcy that opens up and closes immediately for lack of bankruptcy that should cover the costs of the bankruptcy process. Why is that? And whether this problem can only be solved by a normative determination in the bankruptcy law as it is today. The problem of the excessive duration of the proceedings is that we all know it lies in the fact that, unfortunately, today, in our case law until the first-degree verdict, you have to wait one year to two years. And second degree for another year, or two days. As each bankruptcy procedure consists of a series of court proceedings, concerning the assets of the creditor, it is clear that the bankruptcy proceedings generally last at least three to four years. The experience in Istria where over 20 bankruptcy proceedings have been opened in the last four years, which had property that employed a number of people, is that none of them have been closed. That they're all open, that they're partially solved. And unlike my colleagues, I must say that a thousand people have fully charged their claims from those 2000s. It means that there was a bankruptcy mass, and that 300 percent of their relatively small charge, or the remaining 700 did not charge anything. So there's a picture from Istria. Therefore, the problem of the excessive duration of bankruptcy proceedings cannot be solved only by a normative determination in the bankruptcy law, and this is by way of establishing deadlines that are more a list of wishes not real and realistic possibilities. Because under such circumstances the established deadlines mean absolutely nothing to no one, and then it's a fertile ground for bankruptcy to rise. And for the subjective weaknesses of those who carry it out. Trade courts, and bankruptcy managers. It would be interesting, therefore, that before we discuss this issue, we have information on how long the bankruptcy proceedings with the debtors, who have the property, are on average long-term. Those who cause them such a long term. However, when we talk about the slow long-term implementation of bankruptcy procedures or procedures aimed at eliminating economic life those entities which cannot comply with their obligations, in order to protect the credentials from the collection and collection of their assets from the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings only to the date of its conclusion. We are, in fact, witnessing that bankruptcy procedures are not normally initiated on the terms of the bankruptcy law. The debtor's right shall be without delay and no later than 21 days after the insolvency of the payment if at least one fifth of the account's blockade has not been paid in a period of two months to initiate the bankruptcy procedure of Article 2(10) of the bankruptcy law. We further state that state bodies must do so. That's what the law says. And what is the application in practice, the best answer would give information about how many companies we have in Croatia today, which are constantly blocked for a year by two three fours and five and more years. And that the proposals for bankruptcy are not submitted by the responsible administrations or by the competent auction authorities as ordered by the law. I have one ex-name, I won't say the name of the company, because it still works still fighting on the market, two years ago there was a motion to initiate the procedure, a year were determined the reasons for the pre-war proceedings, the bankruptcy was opened after four months for formal reasons interrupted bankruptcy. When it was re-intentioned, it was then one fifth of the consumption was paid and the bankruptcy was formally stopped. It's illegal. So that's our practice. We have and we know, both in metal but also in other activities the inequitableness of companies non-psing over their account for a length of 7, 8 years. And those are the facts. So I have the same experience where a year's workman's initiative lasts art, whether it's bankruptcy or not, and you know what profited from it? The director earned 250,000 kuna under the management contract, for not doing anything to prevent bankruptcy. So that's a good punishment for breaking the law. I'm sorry, I'm gonna stop here now and I'm gonna continue in my 10 minutes. But I just want to finish with the proposal for a conclusion that we give to the Croatian Parliament. And the Croatian Party of Retired. Based on these obligations which we know and which we are obliged to initiate such actions, we propose the next conclusion. It undertakes the Government of the Republic of Croatia to carry out within 90 days an analysis of the purpose and effectiveness of the latest amendments and additions of the "National Journal" of the Bank of Croatia to the "National Journal" of 197/03 of the Regulation and to refer to the parliamentary procedure the comprehensive amendments and additions of the bankruptcy law in line with the views of experts and the views of the social partners and in order to achieve greater efficiency in the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings. The conclusion is time-consistent with the plan of activities of the Economic and Social Council of the Republic of Croatia and is referred to the Croatian Assembly for adoption. This is in the plan of the Economic and Social Council that they have changes and additions to the bankruptcy law to be organised and directed, coordinated among the social partners and headed to the Parliament for adoption, so I will continue in my 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10906	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Libra Mr. Representative William Herman. He's gone. He's losing his right. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10907	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to say immediately on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club that we will support the draft law amending and supplementing the bankruptcy law. Among other things, and for the reason that this draft law amending and supplementing the law is an opportunity to reopen and debate the dilemmas that were present in the last adoption of the amendment and addition of the law in July 2003. We would like to remind again that these are very difficult and serious discussions, because such a law has both its own political and its own economic and its own, of course, social, legal, and if you want the constitutional dimension and it is very important to try to look at all its dimensions and problems that it offers or solves. As a result, we immediately note that regardless of what this law in amendments and additions to its scope and its content is too narrow, it should obviously cover a number of issues that should be considered,... changing and supplementing in the applicable law if the concept of the law is changed, especially all one thing should be discussed, although it only touches one actual question and it appears to be a social issue at first sight. But what is it? First of all, we need to take our economic practice, opportunities or better said troubles in which our economy is particularly economic operators that are ahead of bankruptcy or bankruptcy. As a rule, it happens and we find such cases in the practice so far that when the bankruptcy is opened that the property of an economic operator is not only over-indebted economic operator but that it is usually pawned by an extradition believer and that, in fact, only the extradition creditors who have, since they have real rights on property, that... thank you, colleague, I apologize, we are all tired. Therefore, workers remain in the situation that they are actually from current production, which is then trying to organise, no matter whether it is the settlement of workers' claims as creditors from business costs or the settlement from the privileged position of higher order. The second thing to be taken into account is the fact that, as a rule, if it tries to settle on the basis of rows, that is, the higher order and all other credentials and all other credentials, it usually ends, because they all try to settle on the property and current income that comes from that company and basically closes not one, only the economic operator but closes the jobs of all and those workers who have worked or who could possibly stay working. This is a serious issue and one of the motives that motivated both the Economic and Social Council and trade unions and employers and, of course, the Government of the Republic of Croatia in amending and supplementing the law of 93 in the 7th month was to try to find a model of risk sharing and seeking to reduce not only the bankruptcy process, but to actually allow bankruptcy proceedings in the rule of law not to liquidate but to re-establish the companies where the creditors, each one, workers, on the basis of the law, will practically give up one part of the business because that law has a perspective, and other creditors who have the rule of looking for financial or material legal claims to actually turn their claims into shares and to try to save the company and to continue, of course, if that production has a perspective, have a market, have the ability to survive. And therefore another newspaper was prescribed in that amendment, that the bankruptcy manager must predict and make a bankruptcy plan within six months... If he doesn't, that's what the court has to do. [[You don't understand.]] So, much wider that change was than this is just a question that... Here, it should be recalled that this compromise reached between members of the Economic and Social Council came from the assumption that an amendment to the Labour Act and the addition of the Labour Act would be adopted in the bankruptcy law, then the social partners agreed to form a special fund that would enable the protection of workers' claims for the insolvency of employers. [[You don't understand.]] All of this has been done and all of this has been applied in a sense and has, in a sense, its foothold in International Convention 173. Now what's the problem? The problem is when viewed from the aspect of law, it is quite clear that the right of workers is reduced, both the workers who entered the company and the former employees of the former company who have lost their jobs and who have claims against the economic operator because they have not settled their claims from the work title or based on work in the company. Certainly such a compromise is... because he said first three months, demand three months' wages before opening the bankruptcy, the second two-thirds of the salary that I don't speak, has a full salary for the annual vacation in the year in which the bankruptcy is opened, and in the previous year too, etc. It's all worked out. But what's the problem? The problem is next. That there's a reduced right here, but what's reduced by law is guaranteed and that can and should be charged by now. The problem arises that the former change also made by the coalition government in 2000 when it put workers first, not in the first row, but in fact to settle down from the title of the operating costs of the bankruptcy process, that it could not actually have happened because, in general, the workers did not arrive in most cases to settle their claims, especially not the former workers who were in the same company. And in a situation like this, there's a very serious question, what to do. And this law certainly is not to be rejected. Sure. No matter what he has his shortcomings, he is not to refuse, he is in the first reading and to accept in the first reading and that as a background debate on him is actually used to discuss the partners of the Economic and Social Council of the tripartite system and of course the Government mainly if the government prepares a broad change in scope and content of the bankruptcy law and prepares to refer him to the parliamentary procedure. Another thing on behalf of the club would like to point out to me and tell me is the fact that, in addition to these changes that apply here, we need to take the situation seriously for how long a bankruptcy procedure can take for us. I think we're going to have to get into a situation where the law has to limit the time limit within which the Court of Auditors and the bankruptcy manager have to resolve things and lead to a problem in a particular company. If the company is able to rebuild the company with bankrupt creditors to save the company, continue to act on certain production, the same or similar to a certain number, the same, larger, smaller number of workers, etc. Because it has a market opportunity, a better perspective, etc., it needs to be seen. But we're going to have to take away one fact that a bankruptcy manager has to be a purely physical person. We need to start thinking about that in modern, division of work, in contemporary paradigms, post-industrial society, more and more need to work teams of experts who need to work to prepare a bankruptcy project how to get the company into bankruptcy and how to try to save the company to keep it working, not liquidate the company. That's the key question. In such a situation, we are deeply convinced in the SDP that we will need to consider the possibilities to form teams in which both economists and engineers, or technologists, and lawyers, will be involved, etc. Therefore, all areas should be covered, and why not also be professional institutions or societies dealing with this problem or on the market offer their services. Of course, the choice would also be to control the conduct of the bankruptcy procedure always and exclusively to the court because the other cannot be. It is therefore quite serious to consider and see what to do in such a situation. Otherwise, if it were to be viewed purely from a formal legal aspect, then unfortunately this law should be rejected. It is not for the purposes of Article 1 of this Article 2 which calls for this law to enter into force and applies to bankruptcy proceedings initiated after 31.8.2003, because the whole law is practically retroactive, which is contrary to Article 89. The Constitution. That's easy to fix by the second reading. Several articles, in fact, of the bankruptcy law, which have already been discussed in the first reading from the previous presentation of representatives of other parties’ clubs and associations, can be drawn to include some more changes. That's not the problem. The problem is something else. To find out, we all approach this problem from one very serious aspect. Let's realize we won't win anything if we refuse the law. However, if we let the law go into first reading, it may and should be a basis for us to quickly approach this problem. Whether these issues were best solved in 2000 or not in 2003 or not, they were and gave some effects. Indicators give certain results. There were positive ones, there were negative ones. It is now necessary to see what is positive to affirm the law further, and what is potentially negative should be amended and complemented and ensure that all these issues are properly resolved. And the last thing that should be considered here anyway. It's a question of, you know, exercising rights based on work. It's a matter of pension insurance, it's a matter of health insurance, it's a question of another fund, etc. You know, you can't just admit to one bankruptcy believer only real claims, and the other and real claims and possible... Therefore, the question should be put in context when we look at the aspect of workers, we are all interested, and we will all say in advance, that you are right, we are a social state, workers should also be allowed to demand from the pay title, and demand from all of these, all of this is true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But then, at that point, objectively, whether or not they wanted to admit, other believers came into an unfavourable position and in such a situation the question is actually who gets what. And in the end, we're back to square one. We're going back to where we started, which is what the bankruptcy managers and the Court of Auditors have at their disposal. It has more debt than the value of the underlying capital, it has a company, i.e. an economic operator, where the assets are normally pawned and, as a rule, financial institutions that are... Believers and everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, what to do in such a situation rather than actually try to consider the possibility of a real creation that will enable those who are able to continue to work, to act, etc., if possible. If it is not possible then you should see and consider all these questions once again and consider whether it is possible then and whether a larger number of workers will settle if they do so from the company's operating costs in bankruptcy in a short procedure, or if a larger number will settle, this way a little less, but all of them will get at some amount of funds as the law now provides. I think these are questions that are not final and that require serious consideration. I think that an economic social analysis should be carried out, an analysis of the practice, see how in reality this law behaves and then, on the basis of all of this, conclude what and how in further amendments and additions to the bankruptcy law, and it is quite clear that the amendment and addition of the bankruptcy law is necessary. I personally think that it should be by scope and beyond, by content more comprehensive and deeper, and that it is certainly a good basis for this to pass first reading, and then that the Government eventually prepares the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Bank's Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10908	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. She's gone, she's losing her right. Here you go, correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10909	... if it proves to me that there was a consensus between the social partners around the bankruptcy law. [[Specially enabled.]] I'm one of the negotiators on the union side about the Labour Protection Act, I've been monitoring what a team of negotiators did about the Labour Act. I haven't seen a single record of the social partners' consensus on the bankruptcy law. Which means by my judgment, employers, government and legal lobbys have outwitted another social partner this time. And to me, with forgiveness, it's very regrettable that this social partner kept a lot of quiet about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10910	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. It's an opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10911	No, it was said there was a consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10912	Oh, good. Mr. Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Jure Bithugnac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10913	I'll cut it short, but Mr. Vice President, my remarks first. It seems a little suffocating to me, that ventilation or air conditioning isn't working, so we're pretty much asleep. I welcome you all. Well, I'll just say a few words and I won't be long. I won't be long. I think that the bankruptcy, the bankruptcy in itself, is one complex, one complex matter and no matter what bankruptcy law it will never be one that would satisfy and solve all those who are interested in billing, or to exercise their rights through bankruptcy, through bankruptcy proceedings. Thus, bankruptcy has its own economic dimension. Thus, it is on the one hand to heal the debtor, and on the other hand it has its social dimension to take care of and resolve the issue of workers at least in that part of how it is the bankruptcy law since 1986 and later the additions that followed that which made it possible. I believe when it comes to these changes that this is not even an accident that the HNS Club, the PGS, and supported by the SDP, is proposing an amendment to the law they passed last year at the 8th month. The legislator, i.e. the Croatian Parliament, when adopting these amendments and additions last year had safe in mind, I believe that always in the Croatian Parliament when the laws of this kind and of this nature were passed, that both governments and parliamentarians were in some way taking care of all aspects of the bankruptcy law and thus bankruptcy as such. However, I must say that even before the changes were made in 2003, I will only say the Dalmatian Zagora, I will mention the area of Sinj, Dalmatinka, Cetinka, Imotski. So those companies, those companies, where the bankruptcys were opened 8 last year, that the workers went even worse than this law predicted. In fact, neither did those three salaries, which in some ways the state now guarantees can achieve. Therefore, when we talk about the Law itself, the changes that are here before us, they are only at first sight a struggle in a way for workers' rights but in my opinion the adoption of this proposal would have an absolute contrast to both bankruptcy companies and believers. Therefore, if we look at the economic point of view of accepting the proposals now proposed by the HNS Club PGS would in some way mean the introduction to the liquidation of companies because it would close the space during bankruptcy, a company that is in bankruptcy that can have normal business partners so that it can normally, as normally work during bankruptcy. On the other hand, I would like to mention here the last debate we had on the FINE Financial Agency and the DAB where we had the Croatian Government's proposals to amend these laws and to have control and to make these institutions more effective and we have in some way an absolute refusal of the former coalition government and were trying to lead us in some way to a political rematch and on the other hand, I believe that this proposal which is before us is one of the temptations in the Parliament to adopt one in my opinion an unspeakable and disputable and weak proposal, which would also have negative effects both on economic, social and political terms. In this regard, I support the position of the Government and I believe that it is objective, realistic and looking at the economic interest... /The speaker has been excluded./... that the current Law cannot experience its changes and that it should not be harmonised if it is not already in line with the practice in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10914	I also thank you for these five minutes saved. As a representative of the proposer. We have another representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10915	Mr. Vice President, so far, there have been several dilemmas or conclusions that are probably due to not having all the information. In proposing this Law, we wrote in a letter to the President of the Parliament on the basis of Article 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Article 199 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament The Club of Representatives HNS PGS and at the initiative of the Association of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia we submit a proposal, etc. So, the trade unions warned us about what they wrote in response to the government's obvious, I quote, when they respond to the Government's claims that it was a consensual change and that it was a legal package of labour social regulations that all regulations constitute a package that was negotiated during the amendments and the addition of labour law. However, only when it comes to bankruptcy law when trade unions agreed to delete Article 86. The labour law did not say that, with the loss of the right to measure the costs, other claims would be given less treatment, i.e. to lower payment order. So, I read to you what those same trade unions that took part in last year's written negotiations confirmed that there was no negotiation. Now I repeat that these same trade unions say neither now has negotiations on a new bankruptcy law nor its changes at least they are not taking part in these negotiations. And that's why we came with this proposal. I would like to remind myself of another thing that many of these workers in companies who opened bankruptcy proceedings 3, 4 years ago, which my colleague Silvano was talking about, which will be an open bankruptcy procedure with us in Međimurje 850 women in a textile factory, were taking loans and giving their houses as a mortgage right to credit because they assured them that this was the only way for the company to survive. And now this company goes into bankruptcy, the pa-pa shares, labour claims with salaries and contributions to the lower payout order, and we need big analyses. I said in my first address to you this is the first reading, please give time to both the government and the experts and us to calculate 12 months of application to see what effects we received by changing the law in the 8th month last year and if they say positive in economic terms in saving jobs and about the fact that the other creditors are making it easier to collect their claims I will withdraw the law. But what's true, we haven't touched the salaries of bankruptcy managers, the length of bankruptcy that's been prescribed for two years because we've taken the initiative of the unions who said that, and that's the problem but we're not going to interfere because we believe that the state has understood what the problem is when bankruptcy managers are concerned, obviously not. That's why we're only offering these changes. I agree that it may have to be broader, but if we had proposed and the wider changes then that bill would not have come to first reading but would have been stopped on committees. Furthermore, other companies, I don't know any serious company that deals with a company in difficulty without already providing mortgage rights at least 2, 3 or 10 times, and I agree that other companies are working in the same way, but this is about workers and their total salaries and contributions that depend on it, and there in these other companies in the partial problems that can arise. Not just because of that one bankruptcy, and that's why they're not in the same position. WE don't suggest this because we put the other believers in a more unfavourable position, no. Maybe there's a third solution to what we're proposing might exist and a third, I haven't heard it anywhere, on boards, not from experts, not from politicians. I'd like it to exist. The colleagues from the Croatian Party of Retirement Club offered the conclusion that I was also talking about, they said 90 days, I said the 8th month when the year until the date of application of this law, in principle I agree that these data would be very good and already in this debate that we have them, we unfortunately cannot get them, but I suppose this conclusion will be accepted and that only an alibi will be to delay the problem of the complete change of the Labour Act and that the Government will use this proposal to confirm that our proposal should not be accepted. It's the same legitimate decision to get along. But if we're not going to run an analysis and get information not only about how many employees work in bankruptcy companies, how much a percentage of job claims are charged, how many other creditors are able to charge and how many jobs remain after bankruptcy. On the basis of which we will talk and when the Government comes with its bill, that's why these data are extremely important and I think it's good to give it out to a second reading that based on these judgments and these data, and now we have only judgments we can come to a final decision. So please re-enable a second reading of this Act, so perhaps until the second reading and these other things we suggest also about the length of the bankruptcy procedure, the rights of bankruptcy managers to regulate and to hope that Mr. President will no longer have to report for time savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10916	Thank you very much. And last in 10 minutes, Mr. Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10917	First, here in front of everyone, I can assure my distinguished colleague Dragutin Lesar that the Croatian party of pensioners is neither able nor can this conclusion be an alibi for the Croatian government to reject this conclusion. This conclusion was made completely autonomously in Croatia by a party of pensioners. Based on the experiences that take place in bankruptcy proceedings, if you want most of my personal experiences. So, was the conclusion, was this law in the second reading of the debate on bankruptcy law will be, because I believe in this government and I think it's serious enough if it planned that in the first six months it must be in the dynamics of the work of the Economic and Social Council before the Parliament, then it will be. It is certain that all of us must contribute to the debate on changes and additions to the bankruptcy law being as high as possible in this period and we agree that these data must be made available in this high home. I'm going to pick up where I left off, about stalling with bankruptcy proceedings, try to explain some of the problems in opening up the bankruptcy. So, who is the most damaged in stalling with the opening of bankruptcy proceedings? Of course, current and former bankruptcy workers. Why? Since any delay in submitting a proposal to open a bankruptcy procedure is unnecessary in the implementation of the previous procedure or of the skills and in cases where the creditor delivers confirmation of the authorised bank that the debtor is incompetent to pay, delaying the decision to open the bankruptcy procedure, the divulging of the bankruptcy procedure ultimately means a smaller bankruptcy mass from which the creditors are to settle. In such a long period of time that from the date of submission of the proposal for the opening of bankruptcy, until its opening and the end-up in our practice generally takes more than 5 years. The bankruptcy mass just evaporates or gets sucked out. Then comes the long-term, expensive procedures to refute legal actions, which have been damaged by the reduction of bankruptcy by creditors, of which there is generally not a lot of ubiquitousness. However, banks should be noted, I repeat, the banks which are generally the biggest creditors, generally provided from their trades with mortgages and fiduciary transfer of ownership and their withdrawal of bankruptcy proceedings in such situations. In fact, by calculating the tight interest by comfortable method, they are very successful in producing their capital. It is very common that the principal of the bank's claim is several hundred thousand kunas, and the deposited claim ultimately amounts to 10 million kuna. The last novel of the bankruptcy law of July last year, we reduced the protection of workers' claims, which is the category of creditors who could have the least impact on the protection of bankruptcy and who, in general, for perfectly understandable reasons did not provide for their claims. The provided payment through the Republic Development and Employment Fund is a weak comfort and a far weaker solution for workers than it was in force before the last novel of the bankruptcy law. I therefore believe that current and former workers as a group of creditors who are the weakest protected and who may have the least impact on the timely launch as opposed to state institutions whose legal obligation and banks, and the effective implementation of the bankruptcy procedure should ensure a level of protection that must not be lower than those they had until July of last year. Finally, Article 10 of the last novel of the Banking Act provides that a person who has a professional examination may be appointed as a insolvency administrator, but is not defined how and where it is to be passed. That rule just doesn't apply to lawyers. This domestic provision has been tempered by the condition that a lawyer who has a financial and economic adviser may be appointed as a bankruptcy manager. This does not say what knowledge the counselor must have. It might as well be a hairdresser. I want to be sure of the following. I don't want to tell my colleague Arlovic what he's already been told here, because I don't doubt the motives of the promoter. The motives of the promoters of the past amendments and the addition of the Law were the exclusive acceleration of the bankruptcy process and this is very visible from all the accompanying documentation of the latest novels of the bankruptcy law. However, what I have learned from the practice, according to experience, according to my personal experiences, is missing from the Institute before the bankruptcy settlements. It's our law, the law on bankruptcy deals with the consequences and the procedure for the liquidation of bankruptcy. There is no preventive action anywhere, as provided for in Italy, Germany and other European countries, to forgive the creditors from part of their claim, to preserve the property of the creditor, or to keep him working, to preserve jobs and to keep the property of the creditor from failing. Because I assure you with the moment when the bankruptcy was opened, that price that the bankruptcy debtor had so far is falling, it's being halved at the same time. Only where we were lucky that the country was under that object at a very attractive location here were we able to calm down the believers. Where that was behind God's back, there was a drastic decline in the value of a creditor's property. Therefore, further, the Law is not directed towards the interests of the credentials, and is not directed towards continuing production. So we're just talking about selling machines, meter square halls, etc. Finally, these 2003 Law novels had two provisions on which the request for a constitutionality assessment was before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The first request is related to the application of this law to already open bankruptcy, which is practically a violation of the Constitution, because for workers it meant the application of a more unfavourable right, which is contrary to the Constitution and cannot be implemented on already open bankruptcy. Other times, lawyers, or current bankruptcy managers, have responded because of this poor definition, who can be a bankruptcy manager, and what tests must we have? So, if that law were good, then all this stuff around him wouldn't be there. So once again I appeal to find a compromise solution let's accept the conclusion and give ourselves a serious job to make a law that we won't change for the next five years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10918	Thank you very much, and thank you for the three-minute savings. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10919	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the bankruptcy law, first reading, P.Z. No. 51. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the bankruptcy law proposed by the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the PGS, for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies, is not accepted. Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 79 votes to, against 17, the proposed conclusion has been reached. In accordance with the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Pensioners, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to carry out an analysis of the purpose and effectiveness of the latest amendments and additions to the "National Journal" of the bankruptcy law within 90 days. 123/03. and Regulation (EC) No 127 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2008 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union (OJ L 298, 21.7.2008, p. 1). Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 76 votes in favour, 7 against and 9 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10920	We move to - Proposal for a Law on parent status – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, first reading of P.Z. No. 55 You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the report at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Ms. Ljubica Lalic, on behalf of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10921	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now I'm in a position to find out that no one's represented by the government, here's a bit of a change in the situation exactly of the government's representative who was supposed to be here when she was a representative, then she kept complaining that there was no government representative, but well, it's all part of life. The Law on parent status of breeders is motivated by the fact that in Croatia the demographic structure is significantly disrupted, and the fact that in Croatia less and less is born and increasingly dying. Last year, only 35,000 390 children were born. Maintaining such a trend will certainly bring about those black forecasts that in 2050, Croatia will have only 3 million inhabitants. It is therefore good that the current government has defined effective population policy as its priority. Of course, it is now up to the government to be effective and to prove that its commitment would not only be maintained on the declaration. The effective demonstration is certainly not just the appointment of advice for a population policy that is tasked with drawing up a proposal for a national population policy. The National Strategy for Demographic Reconstruction in this House was adopted in 1995. It was completed in terms of precision in 2001. All the measures envisaged are not envisaged and there are no positive developments thereafter. The correctness of a policy drawn up by a strategy cannot be assessed without the necessary measures previously implemented. Therefore, the new national population policy can only be seen as a delay in the application and implementation of the already outlined measures, i.e. as an indication of the declaration of declaration rather than the actual intention of the announced position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Declarativeity will not result in demographic renewal and a significantly impaired demographic structure will leave its adverse consequences not only in the number of inhabitants but also in the economic development of the country that it needs so much. Without economic development, there is no need for social needs to be met, which is becoming increasingly evident because without economic development, there is neither the implementation of those measures of population policy that have been introduced so far, such as the extension of maternity leave for twins, third and any subsequent child with a corresponding maternity allowance. According to the effectiveness of population measures, we believe that defining parent status with all the rights that this status gives is a far more effective measure than extending maternity leave for twins, third and every further child. The maternity leave and the corresponding fees are limited in time of three years. This bill does not cover either maternity leave or compensation but gives greater safety to parents with four or more children because one of the parents guarantees an average monthly net salary payment in the Republic of Croatia until the 18th year of the youngest child. It is precisely this material security with a child’s allowance and its expected increase that is certainly an incentive measure towards such a desired increase in birth. This should take into account social sensitivity because this measure concerns the poorest part of citizens. Namely, rights from parent status can be obtained by persons who are not employed or who, on the basis of independent work and with whom equal forms of work, earn income less than the average monthly salary. And the parent raiser has the right to the status of the youngest child. We are surprised by the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which it explains and suggests that the bill be rejected already in the first reading. Such a firm attitude that does not allow any other reading to which the necessary interventions would be carried out in accordance with the debate is in fact proof that the demographic renewal supports only the declarative and extension of maternity leave as the least effective measures confirms as pure demagogy. To remind you, extended maternity leave up to three years will be used only by those parents who have high incomes and who will easily find another job if they lose so far. In practice, therefore, it does not characterise social sensitivity as it was intended to be presented to the public. There is an unacceptable explanation which, among other things, questions are given to provisions which, up to 18 years of age, define the youngest child as a condition for exercising the right to parent status for reasons that the child may cease to be a dependent person. Article 1 of the Law clearly defines who can achieve the parent status of the breeder. A parent who has at least four children under the age of 18 can make it possible to have children living with their parents even though their parents support them. The committees also noted that pre-agency children could earn significantly more than their parents, and that is the reason why the bill was rejected. Yes, and it happens but very rarely negligible and in that case the parent does not support his child and therefore does not meet one of the basic conditions for obtaining parent status. Furthermore, the Government stated in its reasoning that the refusal to comply with the amendments and additions to the Labour Act was a reason. Although it does not specify what the discrepancy is, we assume that the government had in mind the erasure of the former article 63, which defined the concept of parent status of breeders. It is true that this article has been deleted. However, this fact is not an obstacle to the adoption of this law. We would like to stress that according to the national strategy, one of the measures to encourage demographic renewal can also be the introduction of parent status of breeders. As the Prime Minister likes to say and remind the representatives and the Croatian people that this government is implementing and will implement the Croatian Democratic Union programme then and we remind the government and the MPs that the national programme of demographic reconstruction from 1996 was the realization of the programme of the then ruling party and we know that it was the Croatian Democratic Community. Therefore, this view of the Government and the recommendation to the Parliament to reject our bill is a confirmation and proof that the HDZ is giving up or that it has given up its demographic renewal programme. It is the right of each party to bring its own programmes, so that it changes them, but it is also the right for the public to valorise the changes. The change cannot be covered by some demagogue measures and even less declarative support for the primacy of the issue. Furthermore, as a reason for the refusal, the government states that it is not possible at this time to provide additional resources for the implementation of this legislative proposal because of the limited balance sheet opportunities of the state. For all of these reasons, this could be the only underlying and justifiable reason but in another situation. Therefore, if the proposal provides for entry into force on the eighth day of the publication, we agree until the second reading to determine the entry into force of 1.1.2005, that is because there will be no such reason. I would like to remind you that by the will of the parliamentary majority, the Value Added Tax Act has been amended in a way that the reduction rate is from 22% to 20%. Therefore, the budget of the Republic of Croatia will be poorer annually by 3.5 billion kuna. Of course, the reduction of citizens will not feel it, but the government has given up revenue probably because it does not consider it necessary. We have no objection to the fulfillment of the pre-election promises but demographic restoration is also the promise of the party that formed the government. That this promise is not a hasty proof of the fact that our former colleague is a representative and today the minister of the family has proposed such a bill in the former assembly but because of the lack of funds has not been delivered even though there has been no reduction in value added tax. Well, now is the time when it is possible to ensure that our wish is realized by the Croatian Peasant Party Club as well as the wish of a former representative and today's ministers and its party to whom she is the deputy president. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in my explanation, I referred to the government's remarks and I think I relativated all the remarks of the government, and probably you think the same way as the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives thinks, so when we vote you miss the second reading, because until the second reading, interventions are made. We wish to realize our project but also to support those who did it, who had the support of both our club and ours when we discussed this Law, and we said we support this Law, at this point there is no funding. Here, now is the occasion, as I understand it from the government opinion, the government tells us, to our club twice, the intention is good, the idea is excellent, however, by rejecting each and every one's proposals, and even this one in the first reading will actually be confirmed by the fact that "hell is paved by good intentions". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10922	I would like to thank Mrs. Ljubica Lalić on behalf of the promoter. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the government want a representative? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ms Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10923	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Respecting the goal of this Proposal for a Law on the status of parent-teacher, which was submitted to the Croatian Assembly by the Club of Representatives of the HSS, the HDZ Representatives Club will not support this Zaknon for any number of reasons. The HDZ representative club agrees with the assessment of the situation, i.e. that long-term demographic processes such as the fall of birth create deep scars in the demographic structure of our population. In its 2003-2007 mandate programme, the government highlighted the population policy resolution programme as one of the priorities. To address this problem, the Council for Population Policy has also been appointed as the professional and advisory body of the Government, which will certainly take a whole series of measures for the demographic recovery of Croatia. I must remind you, and you, too, have reminded fellow MPs here that in 2001 our current Deputy Prime Minister and Minister proposed one of these laws and that the Government then, with the explanation that you have said this proposal has been rejected. At the same time, the HSS Club also placed itself on the other side of the rejection and supported the government and I will say only one explanation from the phonogram which noted that the HSS Club advocates to create living conditions that children will be able to grow up in the atmosphere of happiness, love, understanding independently of the number of children as the greatest wealth of each family. Well, I must point out that at the HDZ Club and our government, we too stand for the happy face of all children and every family and what this government does to its own measures in this area leads to the said. This government has been in office for four months. If we remember the debate on child allowance, the abolition of certain rights, the reduction of maternity benefits and the statement by the former government that, with great effort, she has provided the meetings for then reduced rights to welcome the return of maternity benefits and the extension of the right for unemployed mothers, as well as the return of a three-year maternity leave alone, at the very beginning of this government. The government has also shown its willingness to solve population issues as quickly as possible. HDZ does not give up, you believe in its demographic restoration policy and every day makes it more and more to improve it. I believe that when the conditions are met, the government will provide funding for some other measures to promote the growth of the population. The HDZ Representatives Club believes that the proposed Law also contains a series of concerns and solutions, and we agreed with the Government that Article 1 is also very questionable. A bill that points out that parent status can be achieved by a parent who is at least 4 children under 18 if they live with their parents and who supports them. You've just listed on one of the boards, two committees have said that sometimes children up to 18 years old, among us there are top athletes, unfortunately now they're not in the assembly but they're getting far more material resources to support than some families. It is also found in Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The parents ’ rights, other than biological parents, can be fulfilled by any other person who, instead of parents, raises, maintains a child by exercising parental rights. It is questionable whether this status can also be realized by a guardian, fosterer, or by children who are located in various homes. Is this going to become an occupation for some people? Article 5 of the Law provides that the parent-raiser is entitled to the status of the youngest child and the law then provides that, after the termination of this status, the parent-teacher is entitled to the exercise of the right and the demanding labour market policy, that means in employment, requalification, acquisition of additional knowledge and skills and encouraging employment measures. Which is certainly everything and you have already stated yourself according to the legal provisions of the Labour and Laws Act positively impossible. In the end, you yourself stated that the state budget did not provide the means to implement this Law, so far it is not possible for them to be provided by the Government, so by respecting the government's opinion, I will cut it short because it is already too late, the HDZ Representatives Club will not support the proposal of the Law on the status of parent-raisers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10924	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, HSP, Mr. Representative Vlado Jukic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10925	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, a few words ago on this bill. I have an observation that is repeated to us in the House more and more often on some proposals of the law there is no one from the government, and I don't think it's correct for a few hundred government employees that there's no possibility that someone could at least be here to answer any question or comment, and unfortunately it always happens at such late hours when mostly opposition proposals go. So I would ask you to proceed at the level of the Presidency of Parliament as much as possible in that sense that at least someone from the Government should be here according to the Rules of Procedure that, it can be a large number of people. The bill proposed by colleagues from the HSS is good and we in Croatia believe that the party of rights deserves the support of the Croatian Party of Rights Club. For years in Croatia, we have been talking about demographic policy and there is talk about a catastrophic demographic situation that can be very argumentative through debates and statistics that shows that the situation is dramatic that there is a need to take measures and start implementing demographic policies in a way that will stimulate parents to a number of children. But with the praise of my colleagues, I am still obliged to mention that my colleagues in the previous term were in the position of the government, and with that position, they could easily have made such a good proposal to push through the corsage procedure and turn it into the law, and I think that remark stands. Unfortunately here such good suggestions, the constructive ones mostly appear when someone leaves the position of power, when they come into opposition, then goes with a proposal that has very little chance of being accepted. But it's also already been said here about the national program. So I think it is correct to remind the record that in 96, a national programme of demographic development was adopted, which literally states: a very generous scheme of children's allowances, favourable housing credits for young couples, tax relief for children, the release of participation, a manger for, free mangers for a family with three and more children, a three-year maternity leave, thank God it was returned to the status of a paid parent, and this is also through the media for us who have been here in the Assembly already known the subject of the status of the parent mother. It is a national programme that was adopted by consensus, not only, but that it was the HDZ government but that all political parties voted in favour of this national programme, which unfortunately, we can harden ourselves, remained only in most of our own, their strategies a dead letter on paper. There has always been talk of a lack of funds, that there is no legal possibility or sufficient means to implement the provisions of that national, national programme. We in HSP think that the only question that should be discussed when talking about such a single proposal is the issue of funding. As the calculation in the proposal speaks of 273 million kuna, we in HSP believe that this is the amount that can be secured in the next financial year. This is not such a large amount that it would significantly violate the structure of the budget that we know is 85 and several billion kunas, and it will probably be bigger for the next financial year. And a little statistics. According to the information from the statistical documents in Croatia, there are 421 thousand families with one child, 371 with two children and 92 thousand with three children, and this is obviously the part of the family that could be counted upon if it was adopted, passed this Law, and with three and more children only 20 thousand families. Statistics themselves suggest that the adoption of such a law would certainly stimulate parents, and that is one significant number. It is almost 100,000 families that would be stimulated by such a law to have a fourth or another child, which would certainly contribute to a larger number of children, and thus repairing a catastrophic demographic picture of Croatia. For these reasons, we, in the HSP, believe that there are reasons for passing one of these laws. We think there's plenty of time for law-making. There is no reason for him to be as practice in this House, rejected only because he is proposed by the opposition. It would even be good to let this law go to another reading anyway, so if necessary, the Government would have enough time to propose a law of similar content itself for the next reading as we already have practice in this Parliament's term. Nothing particularly bad would happen. In any case, it would be good, and we invite you fellow MPs to support the adoption of this Act, that the law goes into another reading and, of course, we commend both the effort and the quality of the bill proposal because, as it is with small changes, it could become a good law and mean one, one important move in stimulating and a good move in demographic policy for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10926	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Luka Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10927	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, gentlemen, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. I'm going to start a little unusually, uh, this debate. At first again, Mr. Vice President, expressing his dissatisfaction with the fact that none of the government's representatives are here as we discuss the bill proposed to this House or I'm adding the HSS Club, which is what I am adding, and I first quoted by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government as saying to the distinguished Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, and I didn't say that, and I'm saying I'm glad to be discussing this topic in this House because this topic always has a place in this House. She's so strong and so important to all of us that she has to and must be discussed whether or not she has any government. I was sad then that I couldn't speak the way I was going to speak, and probably the Deputy Prime Minister was happy that she could speak the way she said, and now I don't think she can talk like that. Conscious of the limited impact of this Act, the Club of Representatives of the HSS referred to the parliamentary procedure of the proposal of this law and we will insist on its adoption and re-initiation of the debate in the Croatian Parliament because this little wheel, which will be launched by this law, of course, if it is adopted, is very important in our opinion for a number of reasons. The basis for this attitude is found in demographic reviews, but also in many others who call for an alert. Negative demographic trends, fall of birth, eviction of the population, our nation unquestionably old. There are not enough newborn children, and the forecasts speak unless something radical changes that in a few dozen years we will reach these incredible 3 and a half million inhabitants, which is almost a shocking thing for all of us. The immediate consequence of this Law in our opinion would be a significantly better material situation for families who have four and more children and that is one of the reasons that motivated us to launch this legal initiative. We all know how difficult it is today to raise a family with one, two, or three children, especially when it comes to families with four and more children covered by this Law. It also legalises the application of the rights of parents, breeders in accordance with international documents and standards. And beyond these standards, we at HSS appreciate that every life is precious and that we must encourage it in our proper ways, the task is to create an climate and conditions in which children will be wanted for their own sake, not for the sake of the law or some demographic calculations. We need to create for them conditions where they can be equally educated as in the world. We need to arrange a society in which they will have a place to work, and for their work they will receive adequate wages, to create a country from which they will not have to flee. For either these or those reasons, it is necessary, first of all, to politicise and catch up with real problems, and that is, first and foremost, by my assessment of economic problems and economic policy and to solve increasingly complex economic problems because the only good economic policy and good standards are the best and the best and demographic policy. Here I know from my own experience and knowledge many families with more children in Split because we are in some way involved and connected to the establishment of the club “4 Plus” which our colleague here attends Lucija Chikesh and I can say that I know how families think with more children. They're too proud people. Mostly none of them gave birth to children because of the law. They're mostly happy and wanted children. But if we already have such selfless families, we let them have the opportunity to live a better life. Until recently, we were witnesses, witnesses of a foster family with more children, so I don't have to mention all those epithets and labels that were given to such families. They had to carry the burden of how poor people were doing it, how it wasn't advanced families, but vice versa. But I assure you, the truth is often quite different. It's a famous saying that it's not a rich man who has a lot but one who needs a little, and I'd add one who's lucky to raise and live in a large family where everything exhales with life. Now, for Easter, we in the Split region had the opportunity to watch the baptism of the ninth child, the small Thessius of Solin, and that none of the worldly nor the church government found fit to give this family a word of support and praise without talking about material support and help. Still, it's not every day that the ninth child is born. Once there were experiences and bestowals from the ranks of worldly government in that sense. I'd like this plan to be done more and more. Patience is a virtue that our youngsters do not lack. And the state has to make it easier for them to raise their children. What the children bring from their family must be their whole life. A child he loves becomes a grown-up person who loves and applies the reverse principle. And we all mkroa be the primary goal of a happy raising your children. Children are not born to be happy, our joy is also to empower them with the good on earth to fill their lives. This Law would therefore allow one of the parents to stay home and raise their children, and in return the state would grant them compensation, according to our proposal, in the higher average monthly salary in the Republic of Croatia. According to our proposal, the parent would have paid the average monthly salary according to our proposal. But the right to pension insurance and health care. And certainly the right to an age pension under the general rules on pension insurance. The failures of this law and this advance can certainly be made after the adulthood of the smallest child. But I assure you, after your child's age in five or six or seven or seven families, your parents are already quite old. They have fulfilled their function, they will not be lost because their children will always think of them. And I assure you that these children will have more people towards their breeders who are also their parents to care for the institutes of the system that in this case take care of our children. Not diminishing the role of all those involved in the process. So I ask you no matter what party you were from, I understand that now the ruling party has other priorities and that it will solve this problem of opportunity at this level. I invite you all together not to reject this initiative, it does not have to be adopted as a proposal from the HSS may be adopted as a proposal from the government. I expect that, in its priorities, the government will forward this proposal to our benches soon, and we will pass this law because it is inadmissible for this society and for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10928	Thank you very much. Before the day of correction, I would like to say that although the government is not a proposing, it has given its opinion. However, I think that he should be a representative of the government and we will warn the Prime Minister of being present at such meetings. And that this isn't quite as appropriate as it was tonight. EVo Mr. Kajo Bučan correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10929	Mr. Vice President, I would like to say to my good acquaintance and dear friend Luka Rojić that it is true that the ninth child and family members of Poljak were baptized in Solin. And that my Luke is not true that none of the church and worldly authorities helped him. The family was assisted by the Croatian Democratic Community's city board with an appropriate new amount. As part of our ability.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10930	Thank you. Does the promoter want a final? Here you go, Mrs. Ljubica Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10931	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, and to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10932	Excuse me just one thing. Here is Mrs Jelena Pavića Vukicevc, who does not have a Mr. Stazic, which is why before I give you my word to inform you that they have applied and are not here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10933	I thank Mr. Vice President to you, thank you to the colleagues who spoke on behalf of the club, for all those remarks that were well-intentioned and that would help us to manage, to draw up another final draft of the law. My colleagues, yes, we know that children are born in love and that's our visa not for the last 14 years, but HSS is a hundred years old. The family as a community dates the philosophy of the political philosophy of our old woman's family dates back to 100 years. More recently, however, there has been an impression and belief that there will be an increase in the number of children due to compensation. It's been manipulated all the time, and we're the ones who said the same money fees aren't born. Children are born out of love, children have the right to an environment that will reflect love. You're saying you accept that the appointment of new advice that will determine some national new national policy, so this is the third national policy since 95, so 96 years, which means in 9 years, we're changing politics three times. Let's not change the policy over and over again, especially those policies that have received political consensus, all the parlamometer parties. Let's try to implement this policy with the measures outlined so that we can say that how the realisation will be monitored by analysts so that we can say they've taken measures to achieve good and desired goals or they haven't achieved those goals. A child's allowance in the last term of my government that we've participated that I've experienced as a blame for the truth. The child's allowance is not reduced, not much 25%, but what made us particularly erudic is that the majority of children almost double the number of children received a child's allowance. Which we tried to balance with, and this very poor woman who is one who can't be different and evenly distributed. You're saying there are no funds and I agree with that and I said it was the only reason why such a proposal was rejected was in the last term there was no funds. But I said there was no VAT reduction at the time. This figure costs 273 million kuna a year. And for official travel, receptions and other expenses in 2004 will be spent 500 million more than in 2003. And in 2005, at least 3 and a half billion kunas won't come into the budget and citizens won't feel it. If that's the financial situation if we're truly in favour of population renewal, then this is an opportunity. And now I refuse the bill. I know what the council majority means and I know the fate of the law, but we'll be back in three months. We'll come back with that proposal if there are effective measures this is certainly one of the more effective measures. Try listening to a colleague named Rojic's father is five children. I'm personally sorry to be in a family of only two children. Because I know what wealth represents, but someone else wanted it that way, it wasn't my will. Let's make a contribution. By increasing maternity leave, we only gave the richer opportunities. We left the poor girl again. Let's be socially sensitive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10934	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And I announce that tomorrow at 9.30 p.m., we start with point 3, 4, 5, 6, that is, bill number 40, number 41 and number 62. And as the fourth one we can announce a report on the work of the State's Attorney for 2003. Good night and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-04-28-0.u10935	Proposal for a law on parent status, first reading of P.Z. No. 55 The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on the status of parents of breeders proposed by the Club of Representatives of the HSS for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies is not accepted. Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 81 votes for, 9 against and 4 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been made. We're moving on with the session. I propose that a united debate be held on the proposal for a law on local and regional (regional) self-government where the proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS-PGS, first reading, P.Z. No. 40 with the Proposal for a Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government and the selection of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb, the proposal is also the Club of Representatives of the HNS-PGS, first reading, P.Z. No. 41 and third, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, the Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the IDS, first reading, P.Z. No. 62 with representatives of clubs having 20 minutes of extended debate and that more representatives can be spoken within the framework of clubs within these 20 minutes. Do the MPs agree? Please, here's Representative Lesar.
