ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-16-0.u19279	5. Elections, appointments and dissociation. I'd like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of Mr Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-16-0.u19280	Thank you very much. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal is for the Committee to be resolved by a member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Master Kajo Bučan, and for Mr Marijan Bekavac to be elected as a member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-16-0.u19281	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on this proposal for a committee. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 95 votes for a member of the Committee on Tourism, Kajo Bucan was elected by Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-16-0.u19282	The following is the proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the Croatian Parliament's Committee on Legislatives from the order of public, scientific and professional staff. It is proposed to authorise a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee from the order of public scientific and professional staff, Prof. Dr. Nikola Gavella on a personal request.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-16-0.u19283	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's up for this proposal? That's too bad. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 95 votes for a personal request, a member of the Committee on Legislatives, Prof. Dr. Nikola Gavella, with my regrets. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-16-0.u19284	The following is the proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the National Council for Water. The Committee proposes that Mr Luka Bebic be appointed president of the National Water Council. For members of the National Council for Water from the ranks of MPs, Mr. Marko Širac, representative Vladimir Kuretic, representative of Jakša Marasović, representatives of the Masters Bozidar Pankretić and Miroslav Rožić, representatives Mate Brletić and Silvano Hrelja. As well as from the order of prominent scientists and professional staff in the water management area and related areas of Prof. Dr. Davor Romić, Prof. Dr. Josip Marusic and Mr Ljubomir Novoselić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-16-0.u19285	Yeah, you didn't suggest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-16-0.u19286	No, the SDP didn't make a proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-16-0.u19287	I'm just watching where it is. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-16-0.u19288	I'm obliged to give an explanation in view of the raiders from the bench, the SDP has not made its proposal. His proposal was submitted by HSP, the Croatian Party of Retired, DC, HSS, HNS and HDZ and all their proposals were accepted, therefore, I see no reason why the SDP proposal would not be accepted if all the other parties had proposed and their proposals were respected, so the majority party did not insist on taking over any absolute majority and thus control over this national water council.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-16-0.u19289	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on the proposal for this decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 94 votes in favour, and the president of the National Water Council is appointed representatives, Vice-President of the House of Luka Bebić and members of the National Council of Representatives Marko Širac, Vladimir Kuretic, Jakša Marasović, Bozidar Pankretić, Miroslav Rožić, Mate Brletić and Silvano Hrelja, and from the ranks of prominent scientific and professional staff from the water management area and related areas of Prof. dr. Davor Romoč, Prof. Dr. Josip Marušić and Ljubomir Novoselić. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In these six months, we will also see our statistics on our work that I will present at the press conference tomorrow, but I think the Croatian Parliament in this part is in particular in its finals, we have passed over 80 laws, about 900 working hours at the plenary session. About 300 committee sessions, our numerous delegations participated in both the permanent and the ad hoc in large part and Europe, and I think that we also contributed to obtaining a part and our credit for obtaining a positive opinion as well as the acquisition of Croatia's candidate status. What is often neglected and exaggerated is that it is a great role and merit for all representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament and their numerous delegations on this very road along the European Metropolis where we have testified about the picture of Croatia and assured and reasoned that as a country we are a mature democratic country that we have met the lion's part of the necessary criteria. It is not immodest, if you allow me to express my gratitude to all of you for the hard work, which was painful, with many and often misunderstandings of a part of the public. With all our differences in party and political, I think it was this good season and that the Croatian Parliament has fulfilled its constitutional role over the past half of the year. I'm concluding this extraordinary session. Good night, and I'll see you in the fall. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
