ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8023	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In front of you is a draft of the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax. However, given some of the legal proposals received from other political parties and clubs in this time between the first and second readings, it is evident that the reduction in "income due to the reduction in VAT rates" is no longer the problem of the state budget, as all other legal proposals are far greater budget cuts in the following year than the proposed by this law on reducing the value added tax rate from 22% to 20%. But what I would like to say at first is what is proposed by this law. It is proposed to reduce the overall tax rate from 22% to 20%, amend the tax exemptions provision, amend the criminal provision. Therefore, tax exemption was amended in the sense that tax exemptions from value added tax should be imposed in the case of imports of donated goods, imports of goods abroad paid from foreign donations, this should have been introduced in a small order, since unfortunately there is one provision in the Regulation on value added tax which was signed in 2001 which does not comply with the Law on Value Added Tax and Amendments to Criminal Provisions, where it is proposed that the offence was committed by the one who has not charged or paid the value added tax. It's been tied up so far. So, if you've accounted for, you haven't paid a value added tax, you haven't committed a violation, and that led to the fact that first of all state-owned companies are large value-added taxpayers, so we suggest this change that would practically take effect eight days after the adoption of this law, that the offender committed the one who did the billing, who didn't bill or did not pay the value added tax. What does the government want and what does it think it will achieve with this proposal to reduce the value added tax from 22% to 20%? First of all, the lower VAT rate-really reduces the burden on all Croatian citizens without exception. So this reduction from 22% to 20% refers to all Croatian citizens, regardless of their purchasing power, which is the difference between this proposed rate and the differentiated rate. In this way every Croatian citizen of 1.1. In 2005, there will be a lower tax burden, which means that each earned kuna will be worth more, as the assumption is ultimately that it was also the appeal of the Prime Minister to all traders to reduce the price of goods for that amount. Accordingly, the standard of Croatian citizens will be unquestionably increased, a reduction in VAT rates of 1.1. In 2005, from 22 to 20%. and ultimately, it is also the fulfillment of HDZ's pre-election promise. Secondly, we believe that this will increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Third, the reduction in VAT rates reduces the budgetary consumption of all government budgets and the budget of the unit of local self-government. You know that for all services performed, all purchased goods both from the state budget and from the budget of the unit of local self-government have no right to return VAT, are not in the VAT system. Therefore, this base will also reduce spending in the budget. The reduction in VAT rates is more socially just than the further increase in the non-taxable part of income. First of all, in the income tax system, it was created, and already with this part of the non-taxable income somewhere around 300 thousand Croatian citizens are not affected by tax rates, because their salary is less than that of the non-taxable plus 1 or two abstention members. Therefore, the poorest citizens of Croatia do not benefit from an increase in the non-taxable part, but they are therefore directly benefiting from a reduction in VAT rates. Fifthly, the reduction in VAT rates gives taxpayers the right to pay and report traffic. and I would like to take a special look at some things, because according to the data available to the Ministry of Finance, in 2000, what goods and services were delivered at zero value added tax rate was a total of 13 billion 516 million. In 2003, the amount increased to 21 billion and 700 million. If we know that from 1.1. 2000 to 31. 12. In 2003, the only zero rate introduced was introduced a zero VAT rate on organised tourism in the Republic of Croatia. And since the increase in tourism is not so great. Secondly, I would also like to say that there would be no later if it were a consequence and that Croats no longer go shopping in Austria, Italy, etc. note that at the zero rate is actually freed from paying the value added tax was bread, milk, medicines, scientific magazines and books. Therefore, most of what was going to go to shopping in Austria, Italy did not cover the team. This clearly shows and points to something completely different and something that we are warned about by those who have added value tax, I beg you, Mr. President. Therefore, it clearly warns us about this and what those who have added value tax have far longer than we do, that differentiated and zero rates open up the possibility of pre-tax manipulation. When I talk about the proposal for this rate, then I think the far more significant problem is this increase in traffic at a zero rate from 2000 to 2003 by eight billion. So that someone took it probably for the right alone to expand the base for the non-taxable part, rather than to reduce the rate of value added tax. What I would also like to say and what I would also like to point out, because it is very important for what I am going to say in the end. And that's, uh, tax on added value per month. It would be logical for the value added tax to be paid in 7, 8, 9 months, looking at monthly levels, so the highest during the financial year. However, when you look at the value added tax in the eighth month, it is only 9th place according to the value added tax in the year. It's not till 9:00. Since the eighth month, your first, second, and fourth month are the only ones smaller. This clearly indicates that it is not a basic problem and the concern of breeds is that the reduction of the value added tax rate will reduce revenues in the state budget. First of all, we need to strive to collect everything we need to charge in the state budget by preventing the grey economy, and to say that this is just the first step towards tax reform that this country needs. It is also needed as a social measure, and it is also necessary as a measure to encourage investment. You know that in the drawer for a year now, the Investment Encouragement Act has been acidified. And I think this law amending the law on value added tax, i.e. The reduction from 22% to 20% should only be the first step towards a tax reform to be implemented in the Republic of Croatia. But I stress, the main problem is that the state has not worked out until the end and the system which unfortunately has been dealing with other things for the last two, three years, rather than with paying the value added tax. I have to remember again the Law of Achievements of Unpaid Claims. This Law, which was held at the High House a few less than two years ago, said that 23 billion, nearly 24 billion kuna, were not paid into the state budget. After a year and a half, I can say the hard work of the tax administration reached an agreement for some 2 billion kuna, and 21 billion did not, counting the tight interest in 2002/2003. will probably be in a situation that will never be charged. And it's a value added tax that we can't determine on a period of this or that government. It is unfortunately one continuity that was present in Croatia. It is unfortunately one continuity that points us to the fact that there are fiscal supplies, therefore, that there is what needs to be charged in the state budget, or if we consider it to be something too high, then let's change the law and cut tax rates and not leave a law that we can't implement because it's the worst and it's the most devastating. The first thing that we bring taxpayers, therefore, and companies and craftsmen into an unspeakable situation is that they have been created obligations that they cannot pay. Therefore, they themselves are neither competitive on the market, so in the end they cannot report to any public tender unless they have received confirmation that they have failed to comply with all their tax obligations. So I think this bill actually raises far more questions than just reducing the value added tax from 22 to 20%. Also when you look at the bill in the first three months, then you will notice that by income structure, then you will see only taxes, actually contributions are growing in the last three years, but very interesting that we with tax reform have reduced the base for contributions, but despite this, the collection of contributions in the state budget is growing. And this only points to something else that we are all aware of, which is that unfortunately a large number of Croatian citizens are getting one salary which is registered to both Regos and the tax administration, therefore, on the heresy form and something else quite different is that they get real pay. And that is, this diagram shows the most, because it would be logical if, due to the introduction of the second degree pension, a large part of Croatian citizens decided on the second pillar, somewhere around 40% of them, their base was reduced by about 25% then it would be logical to expect that next year that part of the contribution to the state budget should be less than it was last year. However, when you look at the payment of contributions, then you will see that these contributions are one continuous growth year by year. At the same time, employment or unemployment is practically stagnating with very small oscillations. Also one question that must be raised under this law when it comes to it, and that is the issue of excise duties. As the next most significant source of charge of the state budget where unfortunately excise duties, we are talking about the nominal amount of oil derivatives sold over the last 4 years, so in 2003 they are almost at the same amount. Because it is difficult to achieve the income of excise duties for the simple reason you know that by amending the Law on Croatian Roads and Croatian highways part of these revenues is being redirected directly as the income of highways and Croatian roads. But when we talk about nominally sold amounts of petroleum products, then we'll see that they're practically at the same level in 2000. If we add that the annual traffic growth reported on the Croatian highways is around 37.38%, if we see how many newly imported cars are in the Republic of Croatia, then this clearly indicates that a large part of the goods unfortunately go beyond the regular cash flows of the Republic of Croatia. The same story is with excises, the same story is with tobacco excises and tobacco processing that are also stagnating. The only excise charge that follows some kind of continuous growth during the season is the excise on beer. They show an increase in sales in the summer months, as well as a charge of excise duties. Why was I saying all this? I spoke for the simple reason that we believe that by preventing a grey economy, by introducing a new system of collection and payment control of State budget revenues, income will also be kept at the same level as it was expected to be in 2004. But I repeat, this is only the first step towards one tax reform this government intends to make in the next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8024	I thank Minister Shuker. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of the Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8025	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister stressed that other proposals for a VAT reduction, therefore, the SDP law, and I don't know which is even more of a loss to the fissus than that, rather than a loss to the government's proposal in the event of a VAT reduction from 22 to 20. That's not true. We, at least when it comes to the SDP Bill proposal, have carried out a very detailed analysis including market research when it comes to children's needs and have come to the conclusion that our proposal for a law on VAT reduction by differentiating the rate of agriculture, tourism and children means less expenditure, less budget loss from half to billions of kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8026	Thank you. Who will explain the bill on behalf of the SDP Club? Dear Vice-President Mato Arlović, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8027	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax of the SDP suggests introducing a 12% rate for agriculture and nutrition, then a 12% rate for tourism or tourism services. Zero rate for children's food, clothing and other supplies and zero rate for newspapers. Dear colleagues and colleagues, what motivated us to propose such a law, and what caused it to be proposed? It may not be the most significant but we will start from it, among other things, is the harmonisation and establishment of the compatibility of the tax system, i.e. the tax on the additional value of the Republic of Croatia with the tax system in the field of additional value which is valid and which is applicable in the European Union. In fact, in the European Union, almost all countries except Denmark practically have rates, i.e. higher rates or a differential tax system of additional value. For example, three reduced rates of 1.6 and 12% apply in Belgium at a general rate of 21. In Luxemburg, other than the 15% overall rate, even reduced rates of 3.6 and 12% are used. Also then, in Germany at a general rate of 7% lower, in France at 19.6% still at 2.1% and 5.5%, in Italy the overall rate of 20 has a reduced rate of 4 and 10% and so on. If we were to introduce differentiated rates, we would practically create compatibility in this segment of the tax system with the countries of the European Union, and we are striving and we want to join the countries of the European Union. Another reason we could call formal-legal nature or constitutional-legal nature, and it is related to bringing the spirit closer to the meaning of the constitutional provision of Article 51 of our tax system on additional value that we propose as an amendment and supplement. In order to remind myself of the Constitution, everyone is obliged to participate in public spending settlement in accordance with their economic opportunities. And of course, the tax system is based on the principles of equality and justice. The same rate of tax is not really the principle of equality and justice for a simple reason because the same opportunities as the Constitution says are not among all citizens, users of services and products that appear on our market, equal. It should not be recalled in particular that it is generally known that the most income our citizens have and their families are spent on food and, of course, on products of broad consumption. The second is quite certain, however, that if food products, food, children's supplies were to be introduced to make life easier for our family, our families, or our citizens, because the largest number, almost 80%, actually survives, has a difficult economic situation in the country. The third reason why we propose this bill is among other things our economic environment in which the Republic of Croatia is located. It should be recalled that all the countries of our environment, including the European Union, have more significant incentives to develop, for example, agricultural and food systems and, of course, to develop tourism and tourism services than we do. But in addition to this incentive, there are interrelationships relating to these activities and in such a situation absolutely certain that our agriculture, our tourism cannot and is not in the beginning of an equal position with similar activities of neighbouring countries and, of course, of the European Union for the simple reason, is, in fact, in a difficult situation to achieve competitiveness or be competitive in these activities. As a result, the proposal for a rate, inter-steps for agricultural food and tourism services actually opens up the possibility for these two activities to come into a more favourable position, a competitive position in relation to the environment and the countries of the European Union so that they can practically compete in more equal positions on a wider market than the markets of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, in order or as b) here you should also keep an eye on the internal plan within the Republic of Croatia. There are huge differences, in fact, between our particular parts of the Republic of Croatia, which are caused by, of course, the market situation and the economic situation on the one hand, but also by our recent past, where war and war destruction took place, it should be recalled that it practically runs from 5 to 15 times the unequal reason or development in the Republic of Croatia between certain activities or certain regions and in such a situation it is quite clear that the regions affected by war and war destruction, which is also the whole of Dalmatia almost and of course Slavonia, western and eastern in which tourism and tourism services, the agricultural and food systems are once again largely being not in an equal position in the starting position so that they can achieve that competition and ability on the market, the internal market and, of course, the international market that they should be made. For this reason, this step is also a practical incentive measure, a tax incentive measure for the development of these activities and for the equating of economic development in the Republic of Croatia, but also for addressing difficult economic and social issues, for example in Eastern Slavonia, then Western Slavonia and Srijem, western Srijem, Liki and Kordun, Dalmatia and so on, and in such a situation, creating conditions to practically approach the economic rate of growth and development, such as the city of Zagreb and Zagreb County, i.e. the Zagreb environment. Of course, in such a situation it should be taken into account, in particular, that this actually or by reducing VAT, reduces the entry costs and frees up space for larger and wider investments in the activities concerned. It is a shame that in this situation when we made the proposal and the calculation we prepared we expanded this 12% interval and to agricultural machinery actually used in the production and activities of the agricultural and food industry. Third or fourth, excuse me, the reason is very important, for example, is 12% in tourist services. This opens up the possibility that our tourism in the starting position is approaching some of the surrounding countries because it should be said that even if this interrelationship was not sufficiently reduced compared to the reduced rate applied in Italy and Spain, Greece and so on and in such a situation, this would not be enough, but if this step were accepted then we could accept and propose in our proposal to amend and supplement the law that the zero rate for the organised stay of the proof from abroad should be abolished, and in such a situation, one possibility would be opened for all entities providing tourist services or providing and supplying the users of tourist services to be in an equal position in the Republic of Croatia. Fifthly, it should be recalled that the bill which proposes to apply a zero rate to clothing, shoes intended for children under 7 years of age, children's food, hygiene supplies and so on, helped to raise and educate children to give a strong incentive measure for development and achievement and innovative policies. It should be said that this significantly reduces the cost of breeding and, of course, children and that in such a situation it is very important to bear in mind that it is not only politically declared will for the most intelligent policy but it is actually a stimulating measure that stimulates or helps our families to make easier decisions on the first and second and then third and possibly more children that they might have. In such a situation, we point out in particular another detail that is very important, which is a question of the development of the textile industry intended for the production of clothing and footwear, or of the leather industries intended for, the production of clothing and footwear in our environment, or in the Republic of Croatia, related to the production and products intended for children. This industry is very stimulating. It is in a difficult situation and in a difficult situation, you know, all the textile industry in the Republic of Croatia is one of the most difficult situations in which it is located and should do quite certainly a lot to help this activity which is very much employed by workers in relation to its scope and reach. When all is taken together, we made sure, of course, that we comply with the classification of activities and products of our bill, and therefore we propose to add, in Article 10a, a new article that would read under point (h) of clothing, shoes intended for children up to 7 years old, children's food, hygiene supplies, help to educate and educate children, and so on and of course daily newspapers. Why the daily paper? It is quite clear that the development of democracy, development and otherwise communication in, the social community does not have the opportunity to inform people, and unfortunately we have such a situation that the serious expenditure is economically taken into account for most of our citizens and their families and the media resources, so they rely exclusively or most of them on information that only happens through television and radio. And that is certainly not enough to be well-informed and well-informed for both the democratic and the issues we should have. When it comes to agricultural products, we have classified them according to classification, and of course that would include meat of meat products, fish, fish products, fruits and vegetables, edible oil and fats, dairy products, cakes, permanently pastry and slaughter. Pasta, refreshing drinks, mineral waters and tourist services. As you can see from the list of these products then it is quite clear that in fact this 12% interstitious rate affects the agricultural food system that includes not only warfare but also fruit, vegetables, but also livestock and meat and meat production. Therefore, an integrated one approach that includes a complex one-actuality with the aim of actually bringing it into an equal legal position and ensuring quality its growth and development. And of course approaching the development of other activities within the Republic of Croatia. We propose that our law for the purpose of preparing and administrative professional services within the Ministry of Finance, above all, the tax administration, so that they can prepare themselves to be able to carry out this Law in a quality way. That it will start to apply from 1.1 next year, because it will be sufficient. Because if he was enough time at the beginning when he started applying though he was once prolonged. When the law was passed, we think that in this respect these remaining here are almost 7.8 months would be enough time to adapt both the preparations and the professional services for the implementation of this Law. For these reasons, we would like to finally just look briefly at the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding our law. We cannot accept that a zero rate or a reduced value added tax does not relieve people with low incomes or persons who do not have income. It is precisely this zero rate between rates that significantly disburses people who have low incomes and of course average incomes and of course those who do not have any income from the space of reason because the social assistance they receive will actually be easier to deploy primarily for the settlement of provisions for living needs. And one more will be able to buy for them. It is also difficult for us to accept that it would be difficult to make changes on the part of the tax administration to apply and implement this Act because, ultimately, complete processing of the collection and collection of value added tax is done by automatic processing of data. So here it's a matter of corrections actually software and a schedule for people to do the job and get it. Now what's particularly interesting is the very interesting replacement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to make it significantly difficult for tax oversight, quote the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is a bit unusual for us. It would even be said to be a strange reason that is stated in this opinion for a reason if, by constitution, it is again to remind the provision of the Constitution of Article 51 that everyone is obliged to participate in the settlement of public costs. But I am stressing in line with my economic opportunities. We therefore need to adjust the tax system according to the possibilities of our citizens and our legal entities in the Republic of Croatia. Then, in such a situation, it is quite clear that the question of who is doing something else is being asked, and how we are, through the adoption of the law, overseeing the work of the executive government, to achieve the constitutional principles and constitutional provisions that we have laid down as the foundations of the organisation and social and state communities in the Republic of Croatia. And for this reason, we believe that this is precisely the opposite that these rates of tax oversight will be easier to carry out and control the tax administration. DRugo is a question that the tax administration will have a little bit more at the beginning of the job, and later on, in fact, on the principle of inert, do the job automatically and process it all. For all these reasons, and especially because of those who are of an economic nature which are of a social nature which are ultimately externally political, so if you want internal political nature and constitutional legal nature. So also legal nature, we propose and ask this home to discuss and accept our draft laws on amendments and amendments to the tax legislation for additional value. Because it is of interest to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to the Republic of Croatia and to develop economies and address social issues within the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8028	I thank the Vice President of the House Mr. Arlovic. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Vladimir Pleško.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8029	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, counterpart Arlovic said that farmers were not released from VAT for the purchase of machinery and equipment. However, I can confirm that the fact that the farmers in the VAT system are freed is that VAT returns are fully realised through the accounting period.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8030	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Mato Šimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8031	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Arlovic, in order to be among the 12% most helpful to farmers. That's not an exact quote. Among the 12% would basically be the most helpful for importers, food because we know that imports are much larger than domestic production.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8032	My colleague Tomcic, here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8033	Mr. President of the Parliament, you didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. Now you've done the right thing. But I remind you, until now, you've given the government's representatives the most common word behind the replicas and behind the correction of the allegations. This time you did well, I think that practice should continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8034	Thank you very much. Please. Now we're going to a debate. Do the committee's rapporteurs want the legislation no. The Committee on Finance and Budget, Chairman of the Board of the Shima Prtjenja Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8035	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. As the parent board, of course, we must report that the debate is one and the other. I think we should report both. The first was the government's proposal and so, in order of the agenda, allow for the first indication on that point. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget also met at its 4th session on 22 March to discuss the final draft law amending and supplementing the VAT law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 17 March this year. The financial and state budget of the Croatian Parliament shall be based on its competence as set out in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the subject matter of the law as a parent working body. In the opening statement of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it was pointed out that, in relation to the first reading, the first reading of the law amended the provisions of Articles 2 and 3 in a way that, in the final proposal of the law of the recipients, the donated goods from abroad, which can be introduced with the application of VAT exemption. As well as imports of goods paid from foreign donations received. Disfellowshipped non-profit organisations of the institution and association, due to the difficulty of controlling and preventing the abuse of tax exemptions. So this is a change compared to the first one. The first reading of this law also amended the provision of Article 5 in such a way that this law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in "National Journals", with the provisions of Article 1 being applied from 1 January of the following year and I have noticed here later amendments. In the discussion on the board, some of the views have been made, so we are presenting several of the main points of view. The opinion was made that, when amending the law in question, the possibility of amending Article 10a(h) of the law in question should be considered in such a way that the zero rate applies to the services of the organised tourist stay to all agencies, and not only those who organise and stay on the basis of orders from abroad. However, it was not an amendment and it gave up. The next remark is by reducing the VAT rate from 22 to 20. According to the opinion, it is not acceptable because the state budget will lose major resources, and the greater effects of this reduction will not be felt more significantly. We see in the discussions the correlation between the proposal and the thinking. The government of the Republic of Croatia should seek a new tax reform to reduce and eliminate existing tax incentives and increase excise duties. In fact, with the growth of public debt and the slowed rate of GDP growth, it will be difficult to consolidate public finances in the coming period. And last opinion. It is fully supported by the Government's proposal that the value added tax rate be reduced from 22 to 20 as this reduction will have multiple macroeconomic effects such as price reduction, improvement of competitiveness of the economy, reduction of the grey economy, etc. In addition, the said reduction will have an impact on lower inflation levels in 2005. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided by majority votes, 6 for and 2 against proposing to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax. Mr. President, do you read the other one right away? ... Here is how the debate is united, let us also read the second position of the board, which is a statement on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the VAT law proposed by the SDP club. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The Committee also discussed at the same session of March 22nd the proposal, which was forwarded to the Assembly on March 19th. Council of Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament pursuant to Article 65 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed it and brought the following views. Introductory representatives pointed out that this bill proposed, at the current rate of VAT of 22, the introduction of step 12 for agriculture, nutrition and tourism as well as zeroes for daily newspapers, children's food, clothing and other supplies. The provisions of the proposed law would apply as of 1 July, but we have already heard a proposal to amend this term, with a view to applying the provisions of this law relating to tourism services from 1 January 2005. So that's what the proposal cares about, so if it's an amendment, of course, the Proposer will coordinate it. The Committee held a written opinion by the Government on the proposal to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax. According to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the extension of the range of products taxed at 0% and the introduction of a 12% reduced rate for certain products and services does not achieve the protection of socially endangered categories of population, as value added tax is not a good instrument for social policy because of its regression. For a more efficient way of removing the regressive effect of value added tax, measures should be applied within the tax system, progressive income taxation, etc. or measures outside the tax system and direct transfers from the state budget such as financial assistance to the unemployed and other socially endangered categories. According to the Ministry of Finance's estimates, the proposed introduction of a differentiated rate of 12% on products and services would result in a reduction in revenue from value added tax being estimated here at about $3.1 billion to add increased tax administration costs, i.e. all that would mean introducing all costs by introducing such an amendment. Most members of the committee without debate supported the government's opinion not to accept the bill. For the above proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax proposed by the SDP Club, 2 MPs voted against the proposal, while 6 MPs voted against the proposal, the Committee decided to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament: The amendment and the addition of the Law on Value Added Tax is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8036	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The other committees, the other committee rapporteurs won't take the floor because they've consulted. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, excuse me, Mr. Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8037	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At first, you did not stress, given that the debate was united whether on behalf of the club would be spoken for a standard 15 or slightly more minutes. I suggest that it be 20 minutes. That's the way it used to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8038	Yeah, I agree. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8039	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8040	20 minutes on behalf of the club. Honorable representative Valter Drandić on behalf of the IDS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8041	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today in one I would say a bit of a strange controversial situation because we have a united discussion of two laws, but two laws that are not in the same procedure so that this debate is a little bit more complicated, because we have a government law that is the final proposal that is in the second reading and we have a proposal for a law of the SDP that is in the first reading so it might be difficult to conduct a united debate in this way, but we accept that because it is the same matter that this debate is still being held. The more we consider these two bill proposals as far as possible in different positions, the more mutually possible it is for them to be connected and entrenched and to come up with a more high-quality proposal, taking into account what is good in both of these laws. Namely, the essence of these proposals is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes a reduction in the overall value added tax rate from 22% to 20%, and that the SDP proposal proposes that the rate remain 22%, but that a new differentiated rate be introduced from 12% to short term agriculture, food and tourism, and that the zero rate be extended to newspapers and children's supplies. As far as we're concerned at the IDS Club, we're basically in favour of one and another legal proposal, and we think it would be a good idea to think that these two proposals are somehow coming together. It would certainly be ideal for Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy to have a proposal to reduce the overall rate from 22 to 20 and introduce a differentiated rate from somewhere between, I would not say 12 slightly lower between 8 and 10% for food, for agriculture, for tourism and expands the zero rate to children's supplies and to newspapers. So when we talk about the first proposal, it's the government's proposal, it's the final draft of the law. The IDS believes and that's what we said in the first reading, that a treasure like this, to say, a reduction in the overall VAT rate from 22% to 20% will not have that effect on the standard of citizens who are here as a reason for this reduction. Especially not to the standard of our most endangered groups, socially endangered, retired, less-income workers, if what they live today can be called a standard at all. Even if the price was reduced that we don't believe in, that would mean a decrease somewhere from 1.64%. But we don't think there's going to be a reduction and that that 1.64% or cca 3 billion kunas will stay somewhere in the chain, let's just say, reproductions that wouldn't be so bad. Which wouldn't be so bad if it stayed somewhere with the manufacturer, that money was used for development, so it could indirectly generate perhaps greater competition on the market, perhaps indirectly and generate a reduction in prices, perhaps indirectly generate improvements in standards. But unfortunately, we are also convinced that many statements and analyses so far show that this money will only remain as an excel profit in trade chains and we don't think that's good. We do not think that the effect will be achieved for producers who should make a little more money for their products, nor for consumers who should get lower prices. Unfortunately, no other will happen and the government's goal will not be achieved, disbursement of final consumption. That is why we think that this solution is not ideal, that there are much better solutions and that the solution proposed by the SDP in its Bill proposal is one on the trail of one of these better solutions, and I say it would be ideal for us from the IDS Club, perhaps to bring these two proposals together into a unique quality proposal that would give a really significant shift in the tax discharge of citizens and the economy. However, we in the IDS cannot support such a tax reduction and we will support this law. However, we believe that the credibility of the government would be much stronger if this reduction were implemented immediately. We have also said this in our first reading and we propose that if this Law is adopted, the reduction of the general tax rate from 22% to 20% is started from 1 July 2004. We believe that there is no reason to wait, that these preparations that are spoken of are not so complex, are not so complicated because they change the rate from 22 to 20, except that it is easier to calculate, as one minister said, it is not a problem either to implement through all the information technology that the state and our businesses today possess and all those who need to do so. And we also saw that all shifts were carried out, hopefully, in the IRS, so there are probably people who need to do the same in their places. Only if they may not have to learn their jobs because many unfortunately came back only for political likeness, not for how the former government worked, in competitions. I also have concrete examples from Istria, where I come from, where that is exactly what happened. I would ask you, Mr. Minister, to stop this process. I think enough damage has already been done. Perhaps a few words about this, when we talk about the credibility of this government, about how the laws of this government and what this House has brought. Some of the fresh ones we recently brought in, so I'm going to tell you one example of the Law we talk about, which Mr. Minister has made a lot of statements in the media, that through the Law on the implementation of the state budget now and companies that do not have state guarantees will be able to obtain the approval to, for delaying the payment of their tax and other obligations, or for a periodical payment. And you know that we have accepted the amendment of the Government which introduced a new article in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, which allows economic operators to be given a postponement or a flat-rate payment. And provided they don't have state guarantees as otherwise provided for by the Budget Act. Today, representatives of these companies, after all they have read, have seen, gone to the IRS, gone to Customs, tried to apply this Law, relieve their business, settled on the basis of this Law to get a postponement of payment, any taxes, any excise duty or a mere payment. They all return with an argument that this does not apply to them and that is one example of how these laws are implemented. I hope, again, to Mr. Minister, that this is a mistake and I ask you to give the tax administrations a guide to correctly interpreting the laws that this Government has proposed and which this Croatian Parliament has adopted. Because I don't think it can happen that some clerk in the IRS or Customs can refuse a man who represents an economic subject and who wants to act by law, submits a request, to tell him that doesn't apply to you, without any explanation. It's just for some, like, shipbuilding and I don't know who. We, when we voted on it, understood and so it is explained in the amendment of the Government, that it applies to everything, that means not only those who have state guarantees, so I ask you to intervene in that sense. So I said, as far as IDS is concerned, we will support this bill even though we think there are much better solutions and that it would be ideal for these two proposals to be integrated into one whole. We have made amendments, two amendments, to mean, with this new general rate, with the application of the treatment from 1 July of this year, not from 1 January of next year. And we have given another amendment concerning the problem of the work and activities of the Croatian Fire Department in which we are seeking to determine the release of VAT for donations. Among other things, for those already foreseen by this Act and for fire departments, society and community. I don't think we need to particularly explain this amendment of ours. We know how much we lack equipment in the fire and how much it takes for the state to help as much as possible to ensure that Croatian firepower is as high-quality and better equipped as possible and prepared for the very difficult jobs ahead of them. As for the bill that the SDP gave, it goes practically in the direction that the IDS has always proposed. We always suggested introducing a few VAT rates. General rates that should be below 22%, the introduction of differentiated rates for agriculture, food and tourism and the introduction of a zero rate for what falls within some level of certain social, human protection for children and others in this society who need protection. In that sense, we also support this proposal and I repeat once again, it would be ideal for these two proposals to be combined into one. We suggest that, given that it is the first reading, that it should be considered to be interlocking with 12% may be reduced to somewhere between 8% and 10%. We think that, especially because this proposal practically loses a zero rate on organised tourism from abroad, that the 12% rate for tourism today would be too high in relation to the competition we have and that somewhere between 8 and 10% would be the one to compensate for this zero rate reduction and that would be really encouraging for the competitiveness of Croatian tourism and thus the Croatian state would also show how much it cares about the development of tourism as one of the most prospective, most prospective Croatian activities in the economy. I also believe that the lower VAT rate, regardless of what the protoargument means, would certainly contribute to Croatian agriculture's competitiveness. Incentives should be given to Croatian agriculture. In addition to the reduction in VAT and other kinds of incentives already being spoken of in order to bring it back to life, so that it can catch up with other competition in Europe and that it can prepare to withstand a blow that will surely experience Croatia's entry into the European Union. And we think that just the development of tourism can be a generator for the further development of agriculture. Not in a way that constantly tries to connect some artificial links between agriculture and tourism, but by helping the state to take advantage of the opportunity offered by tourism, to take advantage of the market that tourism opens in the country. Because we are sure that today it is easier to sell a product and not only agricultural, but also from other activities to a tourist in Croatia, but from the same tourist when in Germany, Italy or elsewhere. So we suggest that this rate be reduced somewhere at level 8 to 10%. and we also propose that the zero rate be included in the fire equipment of the vehicles and facilities for the reasons I said before and relating to the state of Croatian Fire Department. To recapitulate, the IDS suggests practically one and the other bill proposals, we don't think it's ideal, we think it would be better if those two laws were united in one consistent proposal and all together came into third reading in this Croatian Parliament, to introduce a zero general rate of below 22 per cent, to be introduced between the rate for agricultural food and tourism somewhere between 8 and 10%. And that the zero rate that today applies to bread, milk, books, medicines, orthopedic aids, scientific journals, public screening services, spreads to newspapers, children's needs and to firearms of vehicles and facilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8042	Thank you very much. Now a representative on behalf of the HDZ Club in half. Mr. Jandrokovic, then Zvonimir Puljic. Excuse me. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Frano Matušić. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8043	I thank Mr. Vice President, I will correct two incorrect allegations. counterpart Drandic said the former government respected the tender and thus set people up for the leaders of tax administrations. You see, my colleague Drandic, it's quite the opposite of that, just the former government has been setting up the likes of the head of the tax administration, so, say, in Dubrovnik, the head of the local SDP has been appointed head of the IRS. So if you think it's really like you said without a resemblance, then it's very interesting. That should really explain it to the public somehow. Also another incorrect allegation that there was no reason to apply this VAT rate as of 1 July. Unfortunately, there is a very strong reason, which is that 6.5 billion kuna is spent without cover or without the decisions of this House. So I think it's quite clear why we have to wait for the next budget year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8044	It was a second statement of opinion, this can first be treated as a correction to an incorrect assumption. Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8045	Please, Mr. Vice President. I believe that the Rules of Procedure have been injured both in Articles 209 and 234. This was about an untruth that was made as a refutation of some claim. In Dubrovnik a tender was opened for the head of the tax administration and at that competition far the best and you had an excellent head of the tax administration was the man who got the job. They were all received on the basis of the contest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8046	You've hurt the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative, because you've been correcting the opinion of the MPs. He has the right to claim what he claims and has no basis for you to correct his opinion. There's no basis for correcting someone's opinion, that's his opinion, even if it's incorrect. Because someone else answered for it. Here you go, Mr. Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8047	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club remained in the same positions as in its first reading, and will support the adoption of amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. One of the pre-election guarantees of the Croatian Democratic Community was tax cuts. The adoption of this law, which reduces the value added tax rate from 22% to 20%, represents the fulfillment of the guarantee given. It is also one of the measures that will allow for the fulfillment of pre-election announcements related to increasing employment and living standards for Croatian citizens. The tax reduction indicated is a confirmation of the credibility of the government of Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, and a message to Croatian citizens that the pre-election guarantees provided by the Croatian Democratic Union will be reached. The government of the Republic of Croatia has chosen this model of tax cuts because it considers it the best and most effective. From the public debate and arguments given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the occasion of the first reading of the legislative proposal, the Croatian Democratic Community's representative club remains at the stand that the application of this law will have multiple positive effects on the Croatian economy. The Croatian Democratic Community's club also estimates that this law will positively affect the cost of living and have positive effects on the growth of the Croatian citizens' standard of living. Furthermore, the government's decision to reduce the value added tax rate is to start reforming the overall tax system. This is the first step which, together with other measures, will make the Croatian Tax System fully compatible with the tax systems of developed European countries. Something about concrete effects of law enforcement. Since the end-user is the one who ultimately carries a value added tax, and according to the Ministry of Finance's estimates, state revenues will be reduced by around 2.7 billion kuna, the amount will remain in the pockets of Croatian citizens. Therefore, by adopting this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia directly invests or invests 2.7 billion kuna in the growth of the standards of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Of course changing the law itself isn't enough. An adequate response is needed for all those involved in the price formation chain in the first row of traders. It should be said that the government cannot force traders to reduce the price, because it is their autonomous decision and business assessment. The government's task is to create conditions for price reductions, which are achieved by this proposed law. And so far experience daily practice but also sharp competition between traders will certainly lead to a decrease in prices. VAT is a tax that is charged at the final price of a product or service and is realistically expected that entrepreneurs will keep the same price of their products and services before VAT is calculated. Since the rate is down from 22% to 20%, all prices are expected to decrease by around 1.67%. The traders will certainly take advantage of the possibility to cheaper the prices of their goods and make it more competitive. I am convinced that the VAT reduction and marketing skills will be well used. It is therefore extremely important and announced public campaign and encouraging traders to reduce prices. The Croatian Democratic Community's club also supports the proposal's view that a reduction in value added tax will have multiple positive macroeconomic effects. In the first row, reducing price levels, improving the competitiveness of the economy and reducing the grey economy. The Croatian Democratic Community's club also supports the applicant's announcement that it will improve the system of collection and supervision, thus ensuring an increase in tax discipline and an increase in income from that tax as compensation for the fall in tax revenues due to a reduction in the tax rate. Therefore, we consider an important change in the law under which the tax authority can establish a criminal measure for the prohibition of labour to the taxpayer by a solution if it does not account for and does not pay value added tax. According to current law, this could only be done if the taxpayer did not account at the same time and did not pay the tax. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax because it considers it to be the achievement of pre-election announcements. And the first beginning of the reform of the tax system, secondly, with a measure that will have a positive effect on reducing the cost of living and raising the standard of living of Croatian citizens and thirdly, by a measure that will have positive macroeconomic effects, improving the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, reducing the grey economy and reducing the level of prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8048	Thank you very much. The exhibition will continue Mr. Zvonimir Puljic and then you will be corrected by an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8049	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the third session of the Parliament on 28 January over 10 hours, we discussed the Government's proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, which was then in the first reading and which consisted essentially of a proposal to reduce the basic rate from 22% to 20%. In this long-term debate, almost everything was said about the reasons for reducing the overall tax rate and the consequences it would cause. There was no discussion of reducing the revenues of the state budget as well as the possibility of a reduction, a reduction of compensation for more effective collection of tax liabilities. A question has also been discussed in which income from the reduction of the tax burden on consumption will be spilled. The opposition of SDP representatives to the Government's proposal today is summed up here in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act on additional value proposed by the SDP Club. Which, instead of reducing the overall rate, proposes the introduction of a 12% rate for agricultural and food products and tourist services and the extension of zero rates to children's food and other supplies and daily newspapers. This implicitly contests a single rate model and a small number of exceptions in which we have been able to convince ourselves in the current application since 1 January 1998 with only one rate of 22% and additions from 1 November 99th, introduced a zero rate for bread, milk, books, medicines and orthopetic aids, from 1 June 2000 zero rate for scientific journals and from 1 September 2000 a zero rate for public screening of films, and from 1 January 2001 a zero rate for the services of organised foreign tourists paid by foreign tourists from abroad. The introduction of a third rate and the dispersed expansion of the scope of the SDP Club's proposal significantly disrupts the existing model. And it actually introduces a new multi-foot model, with all the negatives that, in the proposal of this SDP Club Act and its reasoning, are not even mentioned, and in particular no solutions have been offered that could be avoided or at least reduced. In modern tax theory, it is a dominant commitment to apply a VAT rate with a small number of exceptions and a broad tax base. Because an increase in tax rates undoubtedly increases the possibility of tax evasion with a number of other problems. The application of such a model, a multi-tax rate model, requires a detailed definition of taxable products which has not even been tried in this legislative proposal. So Zagreb Economic Institute analyst Dr. Željko Lovrincevic rightly wonders that what SDP wants with his proposal is unclear, I quote: "What does it mean to reduce VAT on tourism and agricultural food products and what is covered by these terms?". The process of defining products for different rates exists very complex and encourages many discussions, most often about border products that can be taxed by at least two different rates in nature. Therefore, the definition of the product requires a number of more, professional, tax administrations that will know the arguments and convincingly explain their decisions to the public. This would necessarily lead to an increase in the administrative costs of tax collection. This means that the country applying the VAT at a higher rate must have more officers to define taxable and non-taxable products. And also for processing more complex tax returns. It should be borne in mind that the cost of accounting and payment of VAT on the part of taxpayers is also increasing. By assembling these experiences, the tax expert and long-term director of the IMF fiscal department Vito Tanzi argues that the transition from one to two rates of VAT-related administrations has increased five times. And by moving to three feet ten times. The application of higher rates also generates increased pressure from corruption and strong lobbies as it opens wider opportunities for tax indiscipline and avoidance. Rarely anyone will miss an opportunity to spend a product or service for a higher tax reason through a lower tax rate. As the SDP model's proposals are called for in comparisons with the EU countries, it should be said that the European Union recommends reducing VAT rates to its members and making them more difficult to do so. For example. Italy, France and Ireland in the 1980s, or the 20th century, had 10, 8, or 6 feet, in 2002, after all the negative experiences with so many rates despite the resistances naturally caused by any withdrawal of the benefits, they reduced the number of rates to 3 and 4 respectively. And the week is according to further reduction. Today, with a high level of security, we can argue that the process of synchronising the tax systems of the current European Union countries, although it is a delicate and long-term process because each Member State is experiencing a mix with its tax system as an attack on its sovereignty, will certainly result in an additional tax rate. These countries, the European Union countries introduced VAT in the 60s and 70s of the last century without prior experience. When the position on the application of one rate was not so explicit in the professional circles, when it could not yet have been, comparative knowledge of the nature of the tax instrument could have occurred. In addition, at the time of the introduction of the VAT, these countries sought to keep this new non-applicable form of taxation of consumption as much as possible to the sales tax he changed to make it easier to accept and therefore their starting situation was different, and today it is different. For Croatia as a new, independent country, it is best to retain and continue the use of VAT in its best form based precisely on the experiences of the European Union countries and positive and negative, and this is certainly a system with one rate and the exceptions we have established so far without their spread. Because such a system guarantees income treason, neutrality and the simplicity of harvesting, and therefore the HDZ Club will not support the SDP's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act on an additional value.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8050	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect institute Mr. Walter Drandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8051	Mr. President-in-Office, Commissioner Jandrokovic, and not only him, but it has been incorrectly said several times that if prices are reduced due to a reduction in the VAT's overall rate that it will be a reduction of 1.67%. I just want to fix that mistake because it's the wrong number. The exact number is 1.64% or more precisely 1,639344262. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8052	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8053	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The proposer, this, calls on the HDZ representative to experience European countries as a reason for introducing a single or maintaining a single rate of tax, however, according to data from 15 European Union countries, 14 countries have a differentiated VAT rate, and of 10 countries that are candidates for entry into the European Union all 10 countries have a differentiated VAT rate. Therefore, if we are already invoking ourselves, and this is the information from the Chamber of Commerce of 2.2 this year, then we should say what kind of experience it is in these countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8054	Thank you very much. After 10 minutes club or two representatives on behalf of the SDP Club first Mr. Mato Church. Oh, Mr. Slavko Linic, anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8055	Mr. Chairman, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. What to say about today's Government proposal that talks about the final reading of the Amendments and the addition of the law on value added tax. We are pleased that the Croatian Democratic Community wants to deliver on election promises, but we also want to stress that this is one of the major mistakes for the Croatian economy. Why the big mistakes? I must say, the SDP Club is surprised with today's proposal. In just the last 30 days in this house, we've been discussing the difficult assembling of the State budget. Even the sparks between us talked about who spent more, who spent less, why can't it be provided for the pensioners more, why can't it be for social needs? I will not talk about projects of local self-government, insufficient resources, insufficient funding was a basic concept in the composition of the Budget, and I remind you of something else in this home to no one was a pleasant debate about the Croatian Railways project because the Croatian Railways project does not only mean the modernisation and structural changes in the Railways but the stability of the Croatian economy and what is most important battle to keep at least a five-percent growth rate. Yes, in only 30 days, two difficult discussions, and the problem was no funds. Today we are going with a proposal that from 1.1 next year there is no need for 3 billion kuna. There's no need. Why is there no need? Well, for that reason, obviously something is expected to change this year. Minister Shuker often suggests that the efficiency of the tax administration will probably be raised, so the significant deficit of 3 billion will not be felt. And even that could happen. But 3 billion for Croatian railways, for development, for a 5% rate which means a reduction in the number of unemployed would be very important for the Croatian economy. But more important are the election promises than the stability of the Croatian economy, the battle for the rate, the battle for the Croatian railway. Not just for the Croatian railway, for many local self-government projects. Yeah, that's today's decision. We're in front of that decision today. If it's right, we'll see at the end of the year. Will the citizens greet her? Well, I doubt it. They are interested in the workplace, they are interested in the development of Croatia, projects, a rate of 5% of many businessmen. These three billion will miss them very much. That's why we think this proposal may be premature. Perhaps premature because in the next two years, state projects are very important to consolidate the entire Croatian economy. And now we're going to the other part. Why did the SDP come with his proposal? Well, because we estimate that this kind of proposal that speaks of 2 index points is not what is socially sensitive at all. It's not what citizens need with lower pay power. And that's something we want to make very clear. We in politics can have principles and views like this, but we have scientists. We have scientists working their whole lives in the tax system and warning. We all know that VAT is insensitive, unfair tax, unfair tax. The most burdens the poor people's layers because they pay. A reduction of two index points will not make that tax more socially sensitive or fairer. He won't. The introduction of a differentiated rate increases social sensitivity for citizens with lower incomes. And I want to be very plastic and say, "Yes, gentlemen, two index points will certainly be useful." You know who? Mayor of Imotsky who buys a car of 800 thousand kuna and 2 percent you'll allow it 12,000 kuna when the savings are recalculated for him, 12 grand. For him, it's But for those parents who buy children's shoes and pay 300 kuna, that's maybe 4 kunas, so why maybe because we depend on the merchant's mercy but will reduce 4 kunas but most likely not. And on children's shoes, those who have to buy for children will have no effect on these two indices. This shows the excess that the government has given today. If we're saying we already want to give up 3 billion kuna, then our proposal is let's go and that whoever buys a car of 800,000 kuna has 22%. But the one who buys shoes has a savings savings of all 22%, so it's going to be something more than 54 kuna. And then he'll be able to buy another child's supply for it. We tried to tell why we thought it was socially sensitive. Imagine you have Professor Jelcic telling you a general rate in Switzerland 7.6. The lowest in Europe. rich Switzerland but their government said and that is a problem for socially sensitive categories. Well, there's two steps. So at 7.6 a rich Switzerland introduces a rate of 2 and something and three and something. Because he has a government that believes that this unfair tax should also be fairer. That we should take care of the poor. And we don't think that's what we should be doing. Which is the problem. Bureaucracies, how the seas will organise, the problem of how to stop the gray economy, are always some of our problems justifying us. So we don't live because of it, we live because we think about those who have to buy a child's shoe with a problem with income. That's our job. So how we're going to pay the administration how the administration's going to organize, how we're going to fight, so we've been chosen, so we have to take the bills in the elections how successful we've been. And that's why we think that this high rate is such an unfair tax if we've already decided to give up the 3 billion kunas that we need in the development order of this moment we don't mind setting ourselves up in such a way that we give more to social categories. It's not just a railroad, because it's an economic project, no, health investments have been stopped. Health investments, government commitments, budget commitments, which is why. When we see we need the money. So really on behalf of the SDP club, I call on us to think again, let's not rush, let's wait any longer, see what happens this year. We will also have problems with Kosovo with the tourist season, so you know election promises are election promises. It can be wrong. But it is evident that we must have responsibility for the rate of growth and for socially sensitive categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8056	Thank you very much. Mr. Mato Churchman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8057	Mr. President, Minister, colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. I'm convinced and we're at the SDP club convinced that a reduction in VAT from 22 to 20% is not good. That's not a good way to cut VAT. Besides, experts from the HDZA have also recently claimed this. Namely, it's too much to lose out a little or nothing gets. It is about whether to reduce VAT at all in Croatia at the moment and in this situation. However, we also think that the reduction can be considered but only if it is carried out properly. It is also somewhat necessary because indirect taxes in Croatia are significantly higher than in the European Union and than in the OECD Group of Countries. When changing taxes, especially as is the change in VAT, it is necessary to apply the two basic principles of fiscal policy which is why we have responded to this change from 22 to 20 in this way by introducing an inter-step. These are known principles of efficiency, and comfort. The principle is that the state needs to get a lot by taking away a lot of people and on a lot of trades without them feeling it. It's the true logic and wisdom of the state and the tax system. Here, however, the state is losing a lot of VAT cuts, and no one will feel it. Definitely because traders will handle it in their own way. That's where our proposal came from. In fact, our proposal comes from the need for changes in taxation with VAT but that they must be focused on redistributing tax burdens. And it can exist naturally by introducing the lower rate system. It is certainly to redistribute and reduce the relatively higher burden on the population with lower economic strength as proposed. The mathematical fact is that the relative share of VAT in the economic strength from which it is paid is reduced as the force is greater. Those who have lower incomes pay a relatively higher VAT and pay it for the elemental needs of survival. Thus, in the world too, this is a well-known fact, and the redistribution of the tax burden by applying VAT results in the introduction of an inter-step. In a concrete specific Croatian situation, VAT regressive devices cannot be adequately adjudicated by self-differentiating the rate of tax on the donor. Hence, more than one reason to introduce a step. In addition, it is already stated here that out of the 15 countries of the current European Union 14 there are interrelationships and that all 10 that enter are interrelationships, so tomorrow the European Union with 25 auctions in 24 countries has one or more interrelations. In doing so not only did the overrich Swiss as Mr. Linic said, this week he prepared a proposal to make the English do so and see why the English are introducing an inter-step to VAT to put more burden on food that has more fatty substances. And to them, it's not a tax-technical problem because they solve the essence. Which can't question content. Of course it's good for the farm, it was mentioned here that it has no impact on the environment. Tax treatment of food products, as well as tourism products and so on, is necessary because our neighbours and our most significant trading partners are also applying reduced rates or rates to agriculture. In Slovenia, the agricultural rate is also 8 and a half percent. In Hungary 12%, in Italy 4% and 10%, in Germany 7%, in Austria 10% and so on. They're all agricultural rates. In Italy, the rate for tourism is 10%. In some segments and lower than that in the hotel industry. Thus, our environment with which we are trading, with which we are developing, is intertwined. There are also them because of these activities and because of the social effects of these interrelationships. Let me conclude, however, not by saying any further about this whole elaborate, yes and Professor. The Tanzie that some of us know about for their tanzie effect has never denied this effect that I'm talking about and that makes all of Europe's countries have interrelationships and they don't think of reducing them. England, as you can see, is introducing a new inter-step this week, and it already has inter-steps. So let me recap. What does our proposal mean? What's he bringing? First, it brings redistribution of the tax burden through VAT, with less burden on those who are poorer. The overall regressive effect of the VAT is neutralised. Secondly, it is also supporting what is in our environment and in Europe and agriculture and tourism as key sectors in which Croatia can look for its future. Third, he's the only real measure of natal politics. Cancelling VAT on children's food and children's supplies means more than we've done with maternity benefits. Thirty or more times that means more, it's the only real measure you'd feel. Children's shoes would cost 60 kuna, and now they're going to be cheap with this VAT reduction from 22 to 20 for 4 kuna. If we talk so much about the real need for more active innovative policies, I don't know how you gentlemen from the position, from the ruling party, and will oppose the proposal that has so far been the most important proposal in the field of support for the birthright. And finally, the fourth reason for our proposal is that the budget is losing to our bill by about half a billion to a billion, and possibly more if we enter into the detailed analysis that we are prepared to do than lose when VAT is reduced from 22 to 20. So if the fiscus is already losing to the point of always reducing VAT, let something happen, let someone benefit from it, not that traders simply do it in a few months as it will inevitably happen because this is no longer an agreed economy where they would listen to anyone. My colleagues and colleagues allow me to say this. You from the parliamentary majority will, by nature, vote in favour of the government's proposal. That's understandable. You will vote against our proposal, I understand that. But I think you're going to have a hard time explaining in your family, especially voters, which makes our proposal worse, and this proposal that you're going to vote for better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8058	Thank you very much. I suggest that first they get the word of the MPs who asked for correction of the incorrect allegations then give a representative of the government. The first reported for correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8059	The incorrect quote by Mr Linic, who claimed that the reduction in VAT rates in the government's legal proposal from 22% to 20% meant a threat to the state budget and necessarily lower budget revenue. This actually means ignoring, for example, the prime minister's or minister's statements that it can be compensated for better tax charges, but it also means ignoring and some serious professional work, for example. The lefer curve applied to the elasticity of demand, applied to tax revenue, explains that the maximum must not be in the middle of the coefficient of 50 but that the cost of tax evasion has been shifted and that it can be lower income or simpler said one who pays less tax will consider and will rather pay it than go into conflict with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8060	It cannot be considered to be an correction of the incorrect assumption because it is an expression of your opinion and do not appear because of the correcting of the incorrect quote, but it is necessary to correct the statement that is given. Mr. Darko Milinović, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8061	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Mr. Slavko Linic said Minister Suker said it does not require 3.5 billion kuna for 2005 as much as is expected to reduce the revenues of a state budget that does not correspond to the truth. Mr Schuker said that these 3.5 billion kunas will be replaced and better than you have claimed, the efficiency of the tax administration, the control of the exploitation of relevant raw materials and the control of public companies that are mostly owned by the state, and other measures we hope to exceed 3.5 billion kuna in 2005 as revenue in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8062	Thank you very much. Mr. Zeljko Nenadić's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8063	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Correction of Mr. Linic's incorrect quote. It is the saying that the reduction in VAT rates affects state investments, there were allegations of railways, health care, etc. The colleague in charge forgot that the lower VAT rate has been applied since 1.1.2005. Therefore, a reduction in state investment for the above was caused by a pre-expended €6.5 billion in the budget, not by a reduction in VAT rates. And a respected colleague, Churchvenac, led a well-known tax expert and longtime director of the IMF fiscal department, Vito Tanci, to represent more VAT rates. But I'd just say, the Institute of Public Finance stated on December 14, 2003 that it wasn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8064	Time's up. You've corrected the quote. Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged representative Mr Stjepan Fiolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8065	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would correct Mr. Church's incorrect claim that it would remain 2% by trade chains. I assure you that this will not remain, that it will just increase competitiveness and that the very competition in the trade chains will reduce prices and that this 2% will remain a socially endangered population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8066	It's also an expression of opinion. Let's move on. A fellow Mr. Mato Stimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8067	Mr. Vice President, again, I am correcting Mr. Church's false claim that our country is in the same situation as the neighbouring countries where the interrelationships were introduced. It's simply not true, because we have food imports from export. We have a billion and $400 million in imports, and that means that their bill would leave directly to the importers about a billion kuna a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8068	Thank you very much. Mr. Jure Bithunjac correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8069	Mr. Churchvenac said that the reduction in the rate, the general rates by two index points, will be resolved by traders in their own way by making an additional profit. This is simply not true, because when it comes to prices they are determined on the basis of the laws of supply and demand on the one hand, and on the other hand this statement also means calling a large number of people, in fact one complete economic branch that works in trade as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8070	Also, expressing an opinion could not be seen as correcting an incorrect allegation. More respected representative Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8071	Thank you very much. I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my fellow Church that children's shoes are going to cost 60 kunas. It is a non-accurate and flat-rate, flat-rate assessment because the shoes will be cheaped, depending on the price before VAT, and since the SDP proposes a differentiated rate for social reasons, the shoes that would cost 60 kunas cost about 350 kuna. And those shoes certainly don't buy those who are socially endangered.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8072	Also, I would, of course, ask my colleagues, a lot of corrections of incorrect allegations are at the limit of correction, i.e. the expression of opinion, so when a word is received and an attempt to correct an incorrect quote, correct it even if it is not true, and at least we will be within the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Minister Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8073	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Dear Representative Linic did not miss an opportunity to touch the budget and Croatian railways. Well, I think the Croatian public needs to say some things. I'd rather that the budget concerns were managed last year and that you didn't leave us eight and a half billion unpaid liabilities, and as far as child shoes are concerned, you thought of two billion collective collective collective agreements to employees in the State Administration. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, because of that, it is true, as far as Croatia's former Vice-President of the Croatian Government is concerned, because of the truth to the Croatian public, you spent last year on spending in the Croatian Railways a billion and 500 million kunas, and you left this government at charge. 31.3. that amount of loan of 600 million kuna and another 10 million interest. The amount of the loan of $400 million which is 30.6. and the amount of the loan of 500 million which is due from 20.12. It's not long-term loans, it's not investment loans, it's short-term spending loans, it's cowardly egg to this government. That should be said for the Croatian public. If you hadn't, you had paid the commitment you made last year, then this billion-and-a-half kuna would have been paid back to the commitments you made this year could have been spent on regular business. And that's what's true. Also, these days we're talking about indifference. Can a government in two months lead to indifference in this country? He can't, sir. The thing is, the problem of outstanding liabilities since last year has been generated liquidity and that's true. You also failed to fulfil your government's commitment of 760 million bonded bonds that were to be transferred to the Croatian highways. By 31.12, you only transferred 360 million. This government transferred 180 million on 31.12, 230 million left untranslated, and should have been transferred to 20.11. The amount of Croatian highways could not pay for the work, and that is to say. For this amount, the government must be in charge and transfer funds to the Croatian highways because 31.12. there was no jury account of that money. And that's true. And that's what wasn't paid. And also those six and a half billion, we can define them all that's been passed on and what's been created this year's obligations. So, when you talk about Croatian railways, what about Victor Lance? Who spent 80 million euros here? Who will be responsible for this, if the 80m euros were spent critically in some other projects, perhaps this country would not have a problem with the deficit this year. The truth is also, if the goat is lying, the IMF report that the past government has not implemented any criteria for a signed "stand by" arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. That's not the opinion of this government, that's not the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, that's the opinion of the people you made the deal with. So much for worrying about the state budget, so much for worrying about the deficit. Also, how difficult is the SDP proposal to reduce VAT? Whether only between 500 and a billion kunas as easy as they say, only 100% more or less. Or is he weighing over 3 billion kuna? If the Croatian National Bank data has been published these days that the turnover from tourism last year was over $6 billion, let's say that 20% of that traffic is organised tourism in Croatia, let's say that $4 and a half billion was the traffic of the tax collector. So you just cut that VAT by half, so isn't that a loss of nearly a billion and 500, a billion and 600 million? Zero VAT on the newspaper, 256 million. So the proposal and one and the other is difficult between 2, 700 and 3 billion and 100. But what we have for you for this proposal, we have had the opportunity to achieve it in a four-year term, but you didn't even want to hear about it, but you're proposing it now. So, that your social sensitivity and concern you should have shown in moments while you were able to make decisions. The stable growth of the Croatian economy by all indicators, the Croatian economy unfortunately has a slight decline in growth since the 7th month last year and that is the trend you left for us. It's a trend that can't change overnight and that's true. That's true. That's true. So you're also saying that you couldn't bring certain incriminating actions to the Croatian public because of the coalition agreement. And that too, you mean it's not true, right? So one question arises, zero is it suitable for the rich or the poor? How can anyone who doesn't have money spend it? How can he buy one who doesn't have money, and how does he get a zero or a differentiated rate? And as for agriculture and VAT, you know well that the biggest problem in Croatia is that the largest number of farmers are not in the VAT system and that when they are brought here, when farmers enter the system, then they can talk about the impact of VAT on agriculture. As long as you don't do it, you can't talk about it. And you can't talk about the impact of something that doesn't exist. Unfortunately, many Croatian farmers are not in the VAT system. And when I talk about what VAT is in Slovenia or Austria, these imported goods from Slovenia or Austria with that VAT have nothing to do with it because when imported it is imported without VAT. Like the Croatian goods when exported, they are exported without VAT. And also something about, I was talking about how much traffic of goods and services has been shown, what is being taxed with a zero rate. So it's from, it's going to have to do an analysis of what happened, it grew from 2000 to 2003 from 13.5 to 21.7 billion. This clearly indicates, I repeat, that we are being warned by those who have a far longer tax system than we are, how much more danger there is to various and abuses or anything else. And no one can say who is seriously involved in this business, which says that the introduction of zero rate extensions does not create the possibility of various irregularities and various different holes in filling the state budget. All those who have two feet now tend to introduce one foot. But, I say, I had to tell you some things because again here today the question of the Croatian Railways was to be raised. I note, if we hadn't spent our money in advance, there would have been no problem with many projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8074	Thank you very much. Correction on behalf of the club. What about the proposer? Here you go, Mr. Linic. But before that, please, only a correction to the incorrect quote has Mr. Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8075	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the imprecise statement of the minister when he said that the VAT actually doesn't affect peasants who are not in the VAT system. Yes, it is even known that 90 percent of our peasants are not in the VAT system because of tax reform. But they're the ones who pay the most. Because when he goes to the store for repromatter or some of the product pays 22%, this is how he would pay 12%. It's not a heavy accounting operation. So those who aren't in the VAT system pay the most VAT because they don't have a deduction. It's naked math.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8076	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Linic. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8077	Mr. Chairman. One and two proposals mean three billion kunas or a hundred million kunas less or more in the 2005 state budget. Is efficiency going to be tax administrations like that, so more will be added to the budget that's something else. And that's three billion kunas less. 3 billion kuna. I can understand the anxiety of Minister Shuker, who's having a hard time making it 3 billion less. He's having a hard time with no development projects, which I can't support development projects. There's always a need to find the culprit. In these last two months, Minister Shuker, three, four times changed his mind, and it's not the former government's fault, and it's the former government, and 12 billion are listed in the material, so 6 billion, now he's said a new 8.5 billion figure. Great, great. If that's an excuse to stop investment, I can understand the Minister's nervousness, I can understand his and I would say tragedy because there is no development. There's no development. But 3 billion Croatian economy needs. And if we give up 3 billion, because that's tax philosophy, that tax is missing next year. And missing Croatian railways, missing the Croatian health system, which needs it as bread, is missing. And it's obvious it's missing. In this year, Minister Schuker is trying to blame the former government for finding an excuse to stop the investment. I'm very interested in what reason will the 2005 budget be? Then what will be the reason? Because then they're really gonna miss this money, and this money. There's no need to burden our citizens, whether it's more spent on this or on that. Yes, Croatian railways need money. In Croatian railways, what was not done 10 years earlier was done for 4 years. And that system is now working. And it needs a lot of money, it needs a lot of money. Every serious economist knows that these money can be reduced only by development projects and by creating a basis for railways to earn themselves. Now it stops. For what? Promised reduction of 2 VAT points. Is that why he stops? For what? Someone says, spent more, so now they're getting paid. Let's not be like that. Let's not be like that. I have to say, in who's capable, who isn't. But there is something else, which in Croatia in the last month and a half all accounts have stopped and no one in state services pays. Total indifference. Obligations from the state budget shall not be fulfilled. For what? For what? Well, people have my money. He's got money. The minister doesn't want to deal with the override. The minister does not want to admit that there are problems that the VAT in the first three months is not so generous, so it has higher expenditures at present than its revenues. Well, that's just financial overrides. We are burdening ourselves with this, and that will be the Minister's excuse for spending something of the former government. It doesn't matter. You know, personally, the question remains to whom is indifference? Who's that to? What does indifference associate? A part of us who solved this problem in '99, which grew to 27 billion. He knows what's going on. And there's no excuse. There's no excuse for that. That's the problem. and when we talk about the problems of missing funds, when it is evident that in fully stable finances are not paid by the Croatian state in the last month, both Croatian governments and its institutions are making a decision on VAT reduction. We'll bring it in today or tomorrow when we vote. This is why we say very difficult decision, because we need these money for the Croatian economy. But if we're already deciding, let's try to bring it in to those who are socially endangered, not to those who can pay and pay, and pay. You know, constantly looking for excuses, the former government what, the former government I don't know, but we need to know one thing, obviously that the efficiency of investment, the efficiency of investment control, the efficiency of the battle, that through finance and discipline, the financial cycle is the reason that in the last year, 5% of the development of the Croatian economy and growth rate was finally achieved. Yeah. Only the announcement of the election, the start of the election, has already reduced the trend. Why? Well, the government has stopped pressuring all those who are obliged to be effective. Just because the government with the parties turned to the elections, we already had a disturbance in the economy. And this government says, imagine, a negative trend and we can't stop it. So now you're all together. Jump and fight for 6%, fight for it. But find an idea of how. My dear gentlemen, it's the government's business. Raise state efficiency, raise investment efficiency. But you won't pay her off, be assured. It doesn't get up by not paying. That's our problem. No, we're dealing with a drop in rate. Part of us won't rest. We're asking you to be effective. And that's why we say, by reducing VAT, you're reducing your ability to influence the economy, at that rate of 5% that you finally achieved. And instead of fighting to get to 7%. And I remember in 2000 when we here, especially Minister Shuker and many others interpreted that the 12% rate is Croatia's future. And now we're dealing with the trend. We're not stopping that trend. Are we going to stop this trend with this law? We won't. So we suggest that there's no need to get upset, we don't mind if it's easy for Minister Shucker to accuse the former government, we agree, we're all to blame. But raise your rate to 5%. Raise your rate to 5%. Watch out for the railroads. Give it for health care. It's all our fault. No problem. You're just showing what we are. The railroads worked, don't stop them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8078	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Zeljko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8079	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm correcting an incorrect quote again. Amendments and additions to the VAT reduction Act entered into force 1.1. In 2005, and no causal relationship has a budget in 2004 with a reduction in VAT rates.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8080	Unfortunately, the minister could not but rather, after Mr Toncio Tadic, a possible correction. Well, on behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Tonchi Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8081	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, on your way, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Shucker. Today we have been having a debate for hours on these two laws that are trying to reduce VAT and, as I did last time on behalf of the HSP Club in the first debate, it is difficult to be against VAT cuts. But it is also very difficult to ignore the superficial approach that goes into these reductions without clear mathematics, or without clear effects. We're actually facing two schools today. One school of opinion says to have a VAT large with one rate and social transfers, i.e. social funds filled from that one VAT. Another school of opinions that says the social effects are being achieved between VAT rates and income tax reliefs. So, that's all Croatia is about, so today in this House of higher virtue between these two visions. Of course, Mr. Minister and the people who are helping him believe that it is better for Croatia to stay at a single rate and cover all the needs that arise from the budget transfers. The SDP, on the other hand, in its proposal is going to introduce a whole series of inter-steps and reliefs at least the heart of me, together with my colleagues from HSP, we haven't seen them while they were in the position of Minister Shuker, or while they were able to experate with those rates for 4 years. The government naturally insists on a 20% VAT that is a pre-election promise. I must admit that on our part, therefore, HSP did not promise anything that could not really be done but in the first year, however, the government announced a reduction in VAT from 22% to 20% no matter what it cost or what the effects were in all of it, but it is not quite clear whether it will actually be realised. That's it. I'm sure they won't, but next year they're supposed to, but me and my colleagues in HSP aren't sure about it all together. And it all reminds me of a scene from an old film from Eastern European countries there shot in the '80s when two peasants discuss when Communism will come and then one of them says to the next harvest and perhaps before that. So, it might be next year, everyone on this side of Parliament hopes it will certainly be next year while the left hand side is somehow very skeptical that it will be next year rather than that it will most likely never be. It is the current state of mind in the assembly, but Mr. Minister and the Croatian public. The government expects a price reduction. However, prices, you know, rise towards the market, prices rise to the extent that prices can be raised and maintained, i.e. to the extent that they make a profit to the trader. When they're so big that his profits are going down, then he's cutting prices. And no one or not who lowers prices to whether or not the government invited him to do so. So what's particularly wrong with the government's proposal is that there's no estimate that this whole thing is really going to reflect the standard. This is about some general investment of 3 billion kuna, although we don't really know what money it's about. But what is crucial to our public is that there is no change for basic food products. For them, rates are either zero percent or such a change, and price changes are really miserable. So the real effect for a lot of them won't be. Resistance among VAT rates is also often heard from government circles, and I have an ever-increasing impression that this is where the government is actually guided by tax logic, so it's easier to collect taxes rather than what are the effects of that tax on the economy. So one wonders in the end whether our economic strategy is determined by tax collectors with a way of collecting taxes or by our economic strategy, in fact, the needs of the economy and the needs of our citizens. And I think we should actually focus on that in the follow-up of the debate. From the SDP... get clear arguments on how much the budget is really going to lose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But equally, the government estimates that the SDP proposal is bad because it introduces a loss of 3 billion kuna while the government proposal is good because it introduces a loss of only 3 billion kuna. So I really don't understand who actually damaged Croatia more, i.e. who is using... Croatian. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, most likely, they have neither data nor data, but they pour numbers out of their sleeves. What is crucial, however, is that neither the government nor the SDP can currently assess the exact effects of this tax. It's a VAT reduction. We have, however, given our best efforts and decided in the future to advocate these inter-steps only for one which is completely visible, and this is the VAT rate for tourism and simply because everyone swears that Croatia is a tourist country, because everyone swears that tourism is our ability to place our products on the domestic market and simply because all our competition in the Mediterranean wanted you to admit it or not has an inter-step for tourism. Only Croatia and Denmark are stubborn in Europe. Everyone else has introduced a rate for tourism. And now you can experiment with me any way you want what's actually going on here, but I'm going to give you a nice chart from Ireland that clearly shows how to change the number of employees in tourism after you introduce an inter-stop for hotel accommodation. So when Ireland increased its VAT number, the number of employees grew, when it introduced a percentage of the number of tourism employees continuously growing. So, the thing is clear and the math. The same goes for between the VAT rate for restaurants because you can also see the shooting growth of employees. So these are data from the Association of Hotel Houses of Europe, also from their... It is clear how VAT stands in the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So all Mediterranean countries have an average VAT rate for accommodation, between 7% and 11%. So everybody has it, all that competition has it. And this year and in the future it is clear that a fierce battle will be fought to attract guests especially after the assassination in Madrid. So we need to be aware of these circumstances, and that is why HSP insisted two years ago on introducing a VAT rate for tourism. She wasn't then realised by the former government, we have to admit that. Now the SDP is proposing it. We doubt that this proposal will, of course, pass because the government insists on one step at a time, but what is important are also individual figures in VAT-related tourism. It is known that a VAT rate has been introduced, i.e. that something was introduced that was supposed to help tourism as if... between the rate, and that's what's so-called. Zero rate for organized tourist stay abroad. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also protested that when it was introduced simply because it was done without simulation knowing that it would introduce new excise duties because this loss in the Budget must be compensated from somewhere and we have actually brought tourism into a truly absurd situation. That it is enough for the Croat to go beyond the borders of Croatia and pay his stay on one of our islands and if he wants to spend 22% cheaper summers enough to go to an agency in Oras or Sovići, right? And there's going to be an automatic 22% lower price because it's a foreign signal. The more he can do it together in Croatia. It's only important to get the hotel for his vacation from abroad. So that there's an agency that has its own outpost only has to pay off from abroad and it's automatically on 22% cheaper vacations, and in that arrangement it can really include everything; belly dancers, dwarves acrobats, sushi, whatever it wants. With all of this together Croatia loses its horrors, and in particular it creates a very bad impression for all guests who come to Croatia individually, so if a man pulls out of Munich to the Adriatic then he if he comes to pay 22% more expensive stay on the Adriatic. We don't approve of his efforts, did he come to Croatia driving with the roads we have and struggling with the crowds that are the way they are in the summer. So what the HSP is proposing is that, today, it will not be possible to implement it because we have at the debate of these laws, but HSP will soon go into the parliamentary procedure, is that it introduces an inter-stage VAT for, for tourism, so for hotel accommodation of 11% and that in a way that ensures the return of the tax of half the VAT paid. By automatically abolishing this famous zero rate for organized tourist stay rather than equating all categories of tourists. What are the numbers? We, according to our estimates, Croatia loses because of this zero rate in tourism about 655 million a year. That's how much we're actually leaving to foreign tour operators. On the other hand, if we introduce what HSP suggests, which is the return of the tourism tax of 11%, we would actually have in the Budget a loss of 917 million kuna, which seems to be a lot to someone, but this practically means that for 11% we automatically paid all the hotel services in Croatia, that we became an attractive tourist country for lower competitive prices, but that we were just as sure that the return of taxes would be paid to VAT because whoever paid him more and paid him back, and on the other hand, in the first quarter when the tax return takes place, it would come to the fact that these wishes would not have to take loans to prepare the season. We are therefore in a situation that when we talk about VAT, we need to talk in the first place about its economic effects and we believe that only this path will lead to a faster growth of the economy, and not this experimental decline of 2% that actually serve only to fulfill pre-election promises with the same difficult effects in the State budget. The objectives of the tax system and tax reform in Croatia from 1995 to today are the same; encouraging investment, fostering work, encouraging employment, taxing consumption, encouraging exports, and of course through tourism, and all together with such an HSP proposal could indeed be realised. But what is crucial and what is really lacking in both of these proposals is that, with the best intentions, let's say from both of us, we really didn't get a simulation of what is really achieved with such VAT rates. That's why we're gonna be in a big doubt about how to vote in the end for all of this. But regardless of the outcome of the vote, we will go to the procedure with our own initiative to lower VAT on tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8082	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8083	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would correct the allegations regarding the zero rate of tourism. So a zero VAT rate on organised tourism should not be defended or challenged. It stems from the fact that tourism is an invisible export and it was a resonation that the past government managed by introducing such an instrument. In the case of exports of goods and services from Croatia abroad, the rate of taxes is exactly that principle is applied to tourism and I still think it is a good approach.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8084	Thank you very much, colleague. Let's move on. It's a club debate. Yeah, I didn't, I didn't see it, it's that application from before. Okay. Minister Shuker on behalf of the motionary. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8085	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, there's one question left to hang in the air, and that's the question of indifference. I think some things should be explained and said. If in the first three months this government has not created any new obligations, if revenues are at an annual level for the first three months of this year 4.2% higher then it is very interesting how this government could generate indifference if it is not about commitments not transferred from last year. However, as we have already raised some questions here today, it is very interesting that at the meeting that discussed the transferred obligations of the president and the vice-president of the government have publicly stated that they do not know about the HABOR problem and the loan. That they didn't know. I'm still arguing here isn't this any regrets or anything else. However, if something is expendable and is to be paid this year, that's to be said. No one ever said it was 12 billion, and why are these two billion kunas more compared to what was said for the budget? Because the unions who sued the state for unsettled commitments from 2000 and 2001 have made an assessment that it is about 2 billion kuna somewhere. So much for the sake of the truth, and this year it will have to be paid out of the budget and for that amount it will have to reduce the source of funds for investments from the budget. So that's about that liquidity and liquidity. I repeat, the big problem is that Croatia's highways did not receive money from the state that was due to receive by 20.11. of all the bonds issued and that normally in accordance with the increased amount of work they did last year, and they did not have the means to ensure that part of the commitment was not paid. You know that because of the temporary funding... He couldn't have been in the third month, he was going to it at the end of the third month, in the beginning of the fourth month. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You also know that because of the coverage between the other and this 600 million kuna HZ loan, we had to issue an additional 150 million bonds on the domestic market. So, I'd still like to say something, so it's not like there's no one in this government who knows anything about being geniuses in the last government. Well, it's not like anyone doesn't know what a bridge loan is, it's just a question of whether the financial market is at this point, given all the debts given to the money market at this point, there's enough money for a bridge loan. So there's all the stuff that's being left behind. But I repeat, you've left us with commitments of six and a half billion plus collective agreements. And the second thing you spent last year is a billion and a half kuna for Croatian railways, and that's now paid from 3 to 12 months. It is true that those billions and a half kuna paid last year when the works were done would not be a problem this year. Also, works carried out by Djuro Djakovic have been commitments from 12 months since last year amounting to 70 million kuna. If the budget had been paid last year, it wouldn't have had to be settled now. So these are all the things that you can't escape from, they're facts and therefore if they need to be established by them if you keep going. BUT I'm saying talking about someone who's capable or not capable is a matter of judgment. Just as nervous about it, the same thing can be talked about. But I say this government will not, however, be put in a position not to bring certain incriminating actions out of the coalition agreement. That's for sure what we won't allow.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8086	Thank you very much, Gyospdoine Minister. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Radimir Cacic, please elect a fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8087	Here's a 786 jubilee path I find that never and nowhere has the government been able to confirm by any excess number of not six and a half billion debt but by a total of a billionth of the debt being transferred. And obligations are one thing and contractual obligations are the other. And the signed seed and harvest contracts are third. And we all know that, so let's just say we don't know how to do the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8088	Short consultations at the presidential table because obviously we use a table for political opinions, very often charges. But it's nothing new in the Assembly. I invite you to respect the Rules of Procedure. Please, let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zlatko Tomcic, please welcome Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8089	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It seems to me that if there is a direct transmission from this hall that the viewers and listeners of the vervaton are in error what we are discussing. Are we discussing gambling between the former current government, whether we are discussing who left or discussing amendments to the VAT law why our citizens are of course interested and how interested they are. It's a clear thing that you can't stop talking about who left what debt to whom. Who left to whom the rate of war of gross domestic product. And when that's said, then I'll remind you that we inherited a negative growth rate of minus 0.9%. It is indicative that Mr. Minister in the opening statement also devoted a good part of his presentation to a subject that is related to taxes but not directly related to amendments and additions to the VAT Act. He was talking about the need for tax reform, which nobody argues about. He spoke of the need to change the contribution of income taxes, social contributions, the grey excise economy and so on. All this is necessary with this or some different law on VAT that will be necessary again and will have to be discussed again on tax reform and will again have to be discussed on excise duties. And again, there will be a need to discuss reducing the grey economy and again to discuss the efficiency of red tape and so on. So this topic always remains the subject has absolutely nothing to do with the subject of VAT. And to be perfectly clear here we are talking today about the conflict of two concepts of value added tax. One concept proposed by the government is another concept proposed by the SDPe. And that's why we're trying to free our viewers of the doubt that we're talking about here, I'm going to be very specific about these two legislative proposals. First I'm going to talk about a government proposal, which I have no doubt that this final bill is actually identical to the first reading. All provisions are almost irrelevant except in Article 1 which states that the total tax on added value will be reduced from 22% to 20%. So the text is the same, the percentage is the same, the provision is the same, and I think I can simply say on behalf of the HSS Club that there's no need to repeat the views we made in the first reading in detail. The phonograms will remain, the phonograms in this House have been kept for a long time. I would just like to stress that phonograms will be available to those who propose today reducing the general VAT rate from 22% to 20%. And at that time when they will realize that they have actually failed with a political decision, not with a professional decision on the need to cut VAT. And then the phonograms will remain when our public will finally realize that with such a reduction in VAT rates the public or citizens, especially those who are given social assistance, have not received anything or received only crumbs. But to avoid any confusion, HSS is a party that is for dispensing citizens. Which is that in these circumstances VAT as much as got he is unfair and so on play a certain social role. We are for discharging the economy, we are for encouraging the development of the economy, we are for increasing the concreteity of the Croatian economy. But there is always a question of how it can be achieved. I assure you that this is how the government proposes these goals cannot be achieved. Especially not the one based on the goal, which has been served many times, that by reducing the VAT rate from 22 to 20, the Croatian Government will actually invest in its citizens. Three billion kunas and that's how they're gonna unload their citizens. It can only be in principle true, but we need to analyze in detail what it means in this social and economic situation. Our citizens are not interested and they have no direct benefit from it, will they cheaply build highways by 2%. Will the purchase of locomotives and planes be cheaped by 2%, whether the yachts are cheaper than 2% or something else. Our citizens are not interested in whether a serious investor from abroad comes here to build whether it costs 2% more or less. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. Our citizens are only interested in one thing if he is currently changing certain tax policies, and the mother is directly benefiting from her home budget. A significant number of people at this point are the Republics of Croatia on edge or below the edge of existence. And certainly that through the value added tax system, we can make life easier for citizens more or less. This reduction in the rate from 22 to 20% of the effects on our citizens will not give. If they give, they'll give crumbs, but literally crumbs. We simply have to enter the analysis of the consumption structure. In the consumption structure, there is simply too little item of those daily supplies that our citizens spend every day from their home budgets to make it something spectacular with these 2% or something they might feel. Mr. Linic and some others gave good illustrations, which means applying a reduction in this rate compared to some other tax system. We need to be aware of another fact, that and that reduction of 2% will well lose that I said at first reading, in the mazes of price formation in the retail and wholesale network. There's no mechanism of control that can get all traders to cut the price by 2%. There is simply no such mechanism because it is simply all services and all products. If we cut it to some 50 or 100 products then our inspections would know what to control and how to control, and the reduced number of products would certainly be much greater. The question arises who will benefit from this VAT reduction. The greatest benefit without any complex I'll say, will be large producers of expensive goods and expensive services, will have traders and will have importers. Citizens will have literally crumbs. This tax system generates another major problem that we talked about at first reading. It's a lack of funds in the state budget. Lack of funds in the state budget requires new borrowing, requires a new reduction in funding from the state budget of those most needed, regardless of whether it is a clean social, whether it is health care, whether it is education, whether it is sport or something third. So again there will be less money to finance those needs that our citizens are more interested in than when we talk about angro reduction rate. It is not negligible, nor the fact that this model actually stimulates and imports and imports will be cheaper. Of course there's a model to bridge this thing, but I'll talk about it later. A very interesting argument that, with the final draft law, the Government gives as a key argument why no other concept or any other proposal from the first reading has been adopted. So he says, "Proposes and opinions on certain objections to the amendment law and additions to the Value Added Tax Act as if not accepted" as if some were accepted "refer to the introduced reduced and expanded application of the zero value added tax on different goods and services. The reasons why these proposals are not accepted are financial. By accepting the proposal to introduce a reduced rate and by extending the application of a zero-rate deficit of value added tax, it would significantly exceed the income deficit resulting from a reduction in the rate from 22% to 20%." First this latest finding is incorrect, but that they are financial character it is absolutely true, but the government seems to forget the fact that the introduction of the benefited rate and the expanded zero rate that this has the possibility of compensation in revenue, in the tax revenues of the state budget. Mr Shuker only spoke marginally of excise duties as well as the change in excise duties as part of a future reform of the tax system. Well, of course it's going to have to work, but if one minute you break out of the state budget, 3 billion would be healthy to make up for that inflow at the same time to keep the state in the same position and to be able to finance its own needs. I read only one thing out of this, it's very difficult to change a political decision and I dare say from this pay phone, this proposal is the result of a political decision rather than a serious expert analysis. Every day we can read in professional journals, in the daily paper and very serious warnings of very important economic experts from various areas that warn that this reduction in value added tax is harmful, and I will add that it is harmful to the economy, it is harmful to the budget, it is harmful to the social. We at HSS have repeatedly presented our model of change and complementing the value added tax system. I personally elaborated it when we read, when we had the first reading of the government's tax proposal, the changes and the addition of value added tax. The fundamental assumption that the functions of the VAT system in today's economic, social and budgetary situation are effective is at least three components. First in today's situation requires stability and security of income in the state budget. The state has certain needs, it simply needs to finance from something, and if there is no compensation in the proposal for lost 3 billion or 3 billion of which we voluntarily gave up, then there is a threat of security and the amount of tax inflows into the state budget and it will be missing, and it will have to be denied whether it is on social or development projects or something else. We're just running out of one part of our income. The second assumption that the VAT system in today's economic and social and budgetary conditions is normally and well functioning is the development function of the VAT system. I have no doubt that the state must once determine which economic branches it would prefer, most often agriculture and tourism are mentioned, and I also spoke of it in detail when I was on behalf of the club exhibiting our views on the first reading. Therefore, the development function must be represented, since it is obvious that from regular funds raised in the state budget, especially from tax revenues, there is simply not enough for some development component. The reduction of the tax rate to some kind of priced rate of 11 or 12% for certain economic branches directly has a development component because the services of these sectors then become so cheaper on the market, and these sectors are then simply more competitive than foreign competition. Of course there's a possible model to think about here, I don't think it's easy to find. How, when instituting a benefitous rate on food and agricultural products, some have experience in the world, how to allow domestic production to be taxed with a benefited rate and an import rate with a zero rate of 22%. There are solutions. I know it's not too smart or very public to talk about this subject that we're talking about, but there are countries that are protecting domestic production in this way, not to stimulate but to detimise imports because import goods, whether they're meat, wheat or something else, would be automatically more expensive by 11%. So that model is also available to us. The model of the benefited rate, which has, of course, the primary development component, also has a component of certain social security. It also has a certain social component because all the products at which the benefit rate would be applied, they are directly cheaper by 11% for all our citizens. Some will object, but it will benefit rich and poor alike. So normally they'll benefit both, but for cheaper products, let's not close our eyes, they're rather interested in those categories of population that don't have enough financial income in their home budget. Let's give them a chance. And the two percent same applies to both the rich and the poor. So if that's the case, then we're significantly improving the situation in the home budgets of those who don't have enough financial resources. In particular, this refers to the possible extension of the use of zero rate. And this is the third component that today must have a VAT system specifically social component on an expanded number of products, not only on bread, not only on milk, not only on drugs, not only on orthopedic aids, not only on scientific journals, etc., but on a significantly higher number of products. If you remember, in my first reading, I even suggested that the Economic Social Council, through a serious social dialogue, try to reach a basket of product items for which our poor part of the public is particularly interested and that these products that we can jointly identify in the Government, here in the Parliament, etc., this 10 or 15 products are additionally introduced, additionally introduce a zero rate. The government obviously has no hearing of any other VAT tax system for these reasons. There is no hearing simply because of it, not because it does not understand that it is better, but because a political decision that is now difficult, which is hard to give up. I don't think any mistake is so big that the moment you realize it's a mistake, you have to accept it and just change your mind. Our citizens will soon understand, they may still be deluded, but they will quickly realize that reducing the tax rate from 22% to 20% brings nothing to them, and that introducing an unfettered rate and expanded zero rates brings them a very direct benefit to their home budgets. I dare to predict that it may be on those minimum revenues from a thousand to 2,000 kuna. This is the first 10 minutes. This is the first 10 minutes. 20 minutes. Okay. You're objectively measuring time, I don't think this time was objective. [[Intruder: We objectively measure time.]] But let me say something about... No, no, we'll check according to the phonogram, don't worry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But let me also say something about the SDP proposal. This proposal is very close to what HSS has proposed for a long, long time. Since this is about first reading, I'm going to say that he's not very different from the concept of HSS. We were talking about rates 22, 11, 0. They're talking about rates 22, 12, 0. There is something different about the products, and I would just say on the surface what we should possibly pay attention to and think about whether we should be representing that position in this proposal. Let's just say, we at the HSS Club are not to delete the services of organized residence that are paid by foreign money. That would, say, be a questionable thing. Furthermore, it is questionable whether there should be daily newspapers at zero. That's about a hundred million kunas a year. I think it would be good to leave out the daily newspaper and use that opportunity in another situation. And at the benefited rate, they would suggest adding another item, that's the re-promatter in agriculture, and that's artificial fertilisers, protective agents, seeds. To add live cattle to meat and meat products for slaughter. To add fresh and processed vegetables to fruits and vegetables. To create detailed classifications for tourism services that all tourist services, but we all think that, in this way, this proposal fits well with the HSS proposal. And for the end, allow another sentence if I can. No matter how we discuss it today, I think it's still time for both the government and this House to seriously consider whether it is necessary to vote on this final proposal in three days. Why don't we take a little more time for consultations, for serious research, for serious systematicisation, for serious consultations with those scientific institutions that can help us. Because simply, no one's crown will fall from their heads if any of these proposals are modified, and this is about serious national interest. Here, my appeal to still think a little bit about whether it's necessary...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8090	I've got an appeal, too, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8091	Thank you very much. I especially thank you for this questionable extended time... [[You can't hear the speaker away from the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8092	The suspicion is granted. Yes, another announcement since we have registered on behalf of the HNS Club and the PGS, two MPs, a colleague of Lesar and a colleague of Cacic's. By the time you agree who's first, I'll read the notice you may have already seen or read. The 5th session of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget will be held today at 13:30 in the House of Representatives. Have you agreed on who's first? I'm a colleague of Lesar's. And, I'm sorry, we have two corrections to the incorrect assumption. Can you get some rest? Yeah, looks like you're fast. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The first representative is Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8093	Your Honor, Madam President, Mr. Minister. A number of incorrect allegations include concerns about the security of income in the state budget, which is particularly expressed here. Because of these three thousand, three billion kunas. It is an incorrect allegation that the government has not said what sources they are and how they will provide, but much more and greater danger is those funds that have been spent in advance, for which there is no way of knowing which way they will or will have to be compensated, and there is security. He'll have to make up for it from exactly the programs we predicted in 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8094	Thank you very much. You've really corrected the incorrect quote, and to the benching that it has nothing to do with the subject, I agree, so it's worth it to everyone who said so. Next correction of the incorrect quote, MP Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8095	Madam Vice President. Indeed in a number of false allegations, let me correct a few of them. First of all, Mr. Tomcic was talking about some kind of unfettered rate, and it's not known in professional terminology. A differentiated rate is known, but it was nevertheless concluded that you were referring to a differentiated rate. Secondly, it is not true that the word that this VAT reduction will ultimately be harmful. In fact, citizens will feel very strongly because it's about 3 billion kunas they won't pay for. Also, another incorrect allegation is that there will be only about 100 million kunas less per this proposal. It's not true, there'd be about 250 million kunas, so much more.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8096	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for correction of an incorrect quote. Comrade Lesar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8097	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In its 5.6 minutes, only 5 more important things about the draft VAT reduction law. The HNS Club, the PGS will not support the government's proposal to cut VAT from 22% to 20% because we have offered this Assembly and I hope that today we will have our proposal on the agenda which we think is better, that it is more useful for citizens and for the state cheaper. And to get about the same goal as was said, it should be invested in increasing the standards and purchasing power of the population. Today, Mr. Minister cited several reasons why the government is proposing to discuss the law at this session in a second reading, and next week it is obvious to be adopted. And of all the reasons, I will only mention the four that he cited as the reasons for, and for which these same reasons we cannot support this proposal. I'm not going to list them in order as he put them out, but in order to put my personal position in the essence of those reasons. One of the reasons the minister stated was that it was also a pre-election promise from the HDZ and that it wanted to be fulfilled. Since it is a proposal that would only apply in the year 1.1 next, it is therefore a delayed execution of the promise and therefore we do not believe that it can be called on to an election promise. The other reason is the effects this law would produce. So he would produce about 3 billion kunas less money in the state budget. It would produce an effect of around 86 kuna in the home budget on the average consumption of 5300 kuna on how many baskets of a four-member family provided that all traders lower all prices by 1.6% from the moment of entry into force of this law. The third reason why we cannot support it is the words of the minister, that other proposals that go towards increasing the untaxable part of the salary do not have an effect on the poor part of the population. According to the state statistics office of the Republic of Croatia in March last year, but also according to FINA data in January this year, the data are similar. Up to 1,500 kuna net wages, therefore, which is at a zero tax rate of tax scissors in income tax is 37,000 workers. By 2000 there are 161,000 workers. So the difference is 124 thousand employees and employees, who will not have a direct effect on this, and our proposals do. Both the fourth and last reason the minister mentioned was that it was a direct investment in the standard of citizens. In the first reading when we discussed this law, I presented a number of arguments and fears, which is why I doubt that most of the prices of goods will be lower by 1.6% next year. This time I don't want to list the reasons for my fear, but I have one recommendation, one proposal to all those citizens who are convinced that prices will fall 2% to those who are sure not to, especially those who don't know who to trust yet. Instead of trusting us who claim not to, or those who claim to, will, I ask you to go to your store on December 31st this year where you buy supplies from a monthly basket and list all items that cost approximately 100 kuna and their price and their name. Go to the store on January 5th and check these same items if it will cost 98 kuna and 40 limes at that time. And I invite all those who find such items to report to me urgently about the store and the item that will be reduced, whose price will be lower by 1.6 kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8098	Thank you very much. The second part is a colleague of Radimir Cacic, I think it's 15 minutes. 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8099	Dear Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I think we've talked a lot together about this law, maybe too much, but given the importance, we still have to remind ourselves of some basic things. This law certainly belongs to the category of laws that, in the worst sense, can be said of the worst, and that is the way it is. The worst thing a tax can do to the state is that the state loses to the citizens, the state loses a lot, and no one feels anything. It's this law. This law is just a political message and a naked demagogy. Cleaned of anything. There's nothing in it. It's already been said here, we've been discussing before the unfulfilled whether there's been a month of deficit, about this, about the billions proven, unproven. Some respected colleagues here known for horses and donkeys have also opened the subject of some contracts with the Italian State.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8100	Excuse me, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8101	No, I'm talking about those minuses that were mentioned here by the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8102	No, I don't. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8103	I get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8104	Don't insult the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8105	I don't want any more, thank you. So this is about having been seriously concerned for a reason, that we were seriously concerned about how to close the budget structure for next year, some important for the Croatian economy, for the development of things went missing, railways first and not just railways. And we stayed with the deficit of nine billion. Of course, I am deeply convinced of the justification, although I did not notice these development programmes, even as many of these development programs are said to be amended by the Budget Finance Act as an obligation to present in this House by the Government, but I am convinced that there will be development programs, that there will be development programs, which will raise the national product of Croatia, and not lower it, such as the trend of this moment. That we're gonna make up for that nine billion. That we're not just going to make up for those nine, that we're going to make up for the other three that we're going to take away here now. So 12 should make up for not being in the deficit, because we're not talking here about some surpluses that we have, so we need to cut the impulse to the budget, no, so we have a deficit of 9, but this just increases that deficit by 3. So in this completely grotesque situation where we are convinced that we will make it all right during this year, even though it is not noticeable. I suggest a simple little operation. Gentlemen, let's pass a law with one small condition that, indeed, through the functioning of the tax system and new ones, I hope the instruments, if necessary, the institution, the financial police, I don't know what everything is predicted, really make up for that amount and confirm that this space exists. If that happens, fine. And this tax reduction is good. In that sense, I must say the same thing to my party colleague, Mr. Lesar, we support every reduction in tax burden on citizens and the economy, everyone. There's no dilemma in that. Only here is the question, do we even have a chance at something like that right now, and if we do, if there are smarter solutions. That's what this is about. So, we too, if we prove that these three billion really exist, we support that reduction. Of course, these 2% will be slightly over 3 billion next year, not unknown, some colleagues like Mr. Tadic said we don't know, we know, there were 2 and 700, there's going to be something over 3 billion, it's not, it's not disputed and the minister will confirm it. We know the number roughly. These three billion will indeed end up in the pockets of some Croatian citizens. Whether to stay in Croatia or not, that's another thing. But in the pockets of some Croatian citizens, it will certainly end. Especially in the pockets of those who own the chain of commerce. Maybe some of them aren't really Croatian citizens, as you know. But money will come out of the pockets of Croatian citizens, the tax system will be directed into these trade chains and will end up where it ends. As for the citizens themselves, if those 1.6 really end up in their pockets, there will be some small benefit that will be over 75% increased imports, imports. So not only will there be an increased deficit, we have already established this at the beginning but also imports because according to a statement that is correct, even more said Minister Schuker at the mission forum, he said 85%, but let's say the data says 75% of VAT is being collected at the border. So by reducing 2% of VAT, we are directly suppressing imports. Things aren't complicated at all, it's just so simple, gentlemen, it's for little kids, really, no. Now, let's move on. If you don't believe me, I would like to say, gentlemen, here I will address my colleagues at this party, if you don't trust me, I suggest we accept Mr. Puljić's suggestion on behalf of the HDZ, which called for Mr. Lovrincevic as an indisputable expert. What does Mr. Lovrincevic say? He says this way, manipulation of consumer taxes will not bring any benefit to the economy or to increasing competitiveness. Therefore, the VAT issue should not have been opened, according to Lovrincevic. What the gentleman says is, therefore, he's an expert in the economic institute. What does Mr. Charvana say? A C.I.A.C.A.,... Investmentions of banks. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be a different order that the state first reduces the dividers and creates a space for the discharge tax and then goes to tax cuts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what I was talking about. There's not a minute earlier. That's why the VAT reduction decisions have no credibility at all, says Mr. Charvanja, so another uncontested authority. The third indisputable authority is the expert of the Institute of Public Finance, Mr. Anto Bajo, he says new borrowing, best deny the need for a VAT reduction, for such a decision there is no fiscal standoff. So, gentlemen, what are we talking about? We're talking VAT. Okay. Indeed, I ask you nicely, political promises are political promises, elections are elections, demagogy is demagogy and the fate of the country and the economy are too serious things, when a government gets power to look the truth into the eyes, it has to understand what's good for the country because sooner or later these things are completely revealed, citizens recognize failures but unfortunately then it's not just what would be deserved and it's a punishment for a failed government policy but rather unnecessary and damage for the economy and this country. And we will once again witness as we tragically witnessed the takeover of a decomposed, destroyed economic system of 2000. Thank you very much. Three months ago, we took over the country with 5.2% of the largest growth in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8106	Thank you very much, counselor, for not wasting your time. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First of all, the esteemed prisoner, Niko Rebby, here's a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8107	Mr. Lesar, it is incorrect that a few months' delay in the election promise is not the fulfillment of the election promise. It is true that this government and witnesses have prepared the law today and fulfilled the election promise in just a few months. It is also true that those who today are capable of differentiated rates failed to reduce VAT and thus fulfil their election promise for 4 years, i.e. the entire mandate. And that's why they lost the election. That's why it would be wise for us who keep our election promises to do that to the citizens expect you to give us support and finally adopt it like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8108	Comrade Rebecca, I must warn you that you were not correcting the incorrect assumption. No, I'm asking you nicely if we're going to behave like this and raise the wrong plates then we can cancel the Rules of Procedure. So please stick to the Rules of Procedure, correct the exact incorrect allegations. I think it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm a colleague of Lecko's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8109	Yes, she was Madam Vice President, just like you said. Indeed, my colleague did not correct my claim because he misquoted me first to deal with my fault. You want left or right to me is all one thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8110	Now I could also warn you about the breach of the Rules of Procedure because at least on direct questions you are obliged to start by stating the article of the Rules of Procedure. We helped you, Article 209. Another correction to the incorrect allegations, the correction of counterpart Matosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8111	Madam Vice President, I have two incorrect allegations to correct. Before there are no development projects in this year's budget. It is simply not true, or Mr. Cacic failed to read this material in which he could find development projects or lose. And if he lost, I'd be happy to lend him a chance to read the material in which the development projects are. And the second is incorrect that this is a reduction in VAT demagogy. It's simply incorrect. And it's true, Mr. Cacic, that demagogy is 200 thousand new jobs. It's demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8112	And this is a conditional correction of an incorrect assumption. He answered the words of a representative of Finance Minister Ivan Shuker. Here are the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8113	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Obviously, no subject can avoid certain political assessments. But at least I was hoping that in the second reading of this bill, the final proposal of the law on value added tax, we would deal with certain analytical data and indicators that have tortured the former government, which is bothering this government and how these problems are solved. In my view, since the SDP's proposal to cut VAT is also difficult over 3 billion kuna, so if we look at that there will be less revenue in the budget here we can say that we are here somewhere. However, what I've been doing since I was Minister of Finance, even while I was an opposition representative, I want to impose something on you that if we have passed certain laws that we all have to respect, that we have to pay what we have to pay. And let me just read you a few indicators so we can see if we're really right or wrong. If 2 billion and 379 million VAT is charged in the third month in the fourth 2 billion 326 in the fifth 2 billion and 507 million. So when practically tourist season is somewhere compared to what's in the score 10%. When it even reduces the activity of Croatian citizens as regards consumption and everything. The VAT is at 8 months is 2 billion and 237 million. So smaller than these three months I've read. When several million foreigners enter Croatia, several million vehicles enter Croatia and even Croatian citizens spend more than they normally spend. When in the ninth month, VAT is 2 billion and 470 million. I think that these are real problems when we talk about the Value Added Tax Act and I think they're real problems when we talk about growth in the economy because if money from certain activities doesn't come into the budget then they're not recorded by any statistical indicators and no indicators macroeconomicly can generate certain growth. And I think that's the question that I expected today, given that on the one hand, the HDZ proposal, on the other hand, is the SDP proposal, so the two strongest political parties and the HDZ and the coalition partners, so we're going to discuss this problem because if, through value added tax income, something went into the budget, it's not recorded anywhere as some kind of economic activity. So it's not even recorded as economic growth, and that's the problem that the past government was facing, and that's the problem this government is facing. And the whole of Europe. So that's something I think we should reach a consensus on and that's something the Ministry of Finance and this government is doing to reduce this grey economy. So this money that goes past the budget, the local self-government unit and past the State budget to focus where they belong, to finally get to the fiscal capacity of the Croatian state and then to say whether certain fiscal revenues can or can't be reduced. So I'm not in vain, and at the government meeting today, I said this was the beginning of tax reform. You know that income tax has also adopted a lot of proposals, laws that should have had a social character, but now that tax returns have been submitted and when analysis is made, unfortunately, the best interests of those who have high salaries will be seen. Because one who has a small salary can hardly take advantage of all the five possibilities of 12 thousand kunas of cost to show it as a cost and thus reduce the tax base. When I talk about trade chains, I'll never forget the debate about the Law of Incentives, Investments. At the time, I think he was the Minister of Economy, Mr. Fizulic. When precisely behind this pay phone, it is said that this law is passed precisely for target groups. Today, after 4 years, we can see who took advantage of the possibility of investing 30 million kuna in a new company, and with that basis was released 10 million, freed from paying taxes on profits for 10 years. At the time, we said that these trade chains had favored the no longer going across the border and that the Croats were shopping at home, but today is no longer good. These trading chains are not good because someone else has said that these trade chains are likely to lower the price for these 2% of VAT due to each other's competition. So that part of how much it's going down to 2% of the VAT. It is also incorrect to increase imports due to VAT reductions. And people are importing goods so they can sell them. Whether or not any goods will be imported because they are reduced or unabated VAT, which I think is at least not true. I'd like to look back at two more things. We obviously forgot that we had entered the WTO and that the WTO had its own rules and what Mr. Tomcic said on behalf of the HSS Club, I don't know how the WTO would accept his proposal to calculate VAT on imported food products. Well, we had to cut certain customs, cut the redundancies for signing a contract with the WTO. And what I'd like to say when we talk about the social basket then we need to see what that social basket really does. And what's certain is that the energy prices are going to decrease by how much they're going to waste to 2% of the VAT. Now take how much energy prices are in the consumer basket in one average Croatian family. That the price of municipal services will be reduced by the same amount. And finally, as far as these famous stories are concerned, since the distinguished representative Cacic is talking about... Nine billion and worried about closing the budget. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] At first, she was concerned that this government was in no condition, unable to bring the budget. Then when she brought the budget, she was worried about closing the budget, and as far as the deficits are concerned, Mr. Chacic of these nine billion kunas, what you spent in 2003 is at least two and a half billion kuna. And I showed you here the signed document that you signed a contract with HABOR in 2001 without showing that cost in the budget that you were in debt under all the laws. You've issued for 100 million bonds even though you didn't have the authority to do it. So what you did in the Croatian highways, you do more work than the insurance money, someone has to pay for it. And it's paid from the budget this year and it's undeniable. But you know well that we are limited to deficits and that we couldn't just do those billions and so much more last year's work and this year we've done so many and so many jobs. So the money was clearly spent in advance. And it's not true that they're capable and incompetent, but the thing is whether or not we stick to the law we've passed in this House. Nothing else. Because the easiest thing to do is spend something in advance. Everyone knows that. But the question is who's gonna pay for it and how it's gonna pay for it. And in order to pay for that, the revenue in the budget must also be provided. And the revenue in the budget can't be secured if there's no discipline. If there's no discipline in state finances, if we don't have a single gyro-account of the Treasury and the state treasury won't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8114	We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First respected representative of counterpart Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8115	Thank you very much. Of course, no one said about the trade chains that the trade chains were not a positive contribution. It's only said that money will end mainly in the market since VAT cuts. No one claims that 3 billion less instructions in the budget that will be on the proposal or more than the HDZ, according to the HDZ proposal is different than 3 billion or 2 and a half per SDP or 2 billion or 2 and a half per HNS. All these are reduced revenue accounts. There's no dispute about that. The only question is how, if that's already going on, that's exactly what I was talking about, how do we use that extra deficit best? And as far as this last one is concerned, it's already proven in a series of times that none of what you said is true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8116	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just two allegations, a brief correction. You should see what's in the union basket. The structure of the union basket was established in 1992. I'll make sure I deliver the structure to the minister because there's really energy and municipal services in there, though, without culture or anything else, because there's no money left for that. And secondly, the claim that tax evasion is the problem of this law. Tax evasion is not the problem with this law. She's a problem with the government and the tax administration, not this VAT law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8118	Thank you very much. Just one notice. Before the chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, Mrs Zeljka Antunović called for a meeting of the Committee for the Day in the session break at 13:30 in Hall 202. Information to the members of the Committee. And colleagues and colleagues should now speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and DC respected representative Ivan Chehok. Do you want now or considering that, or? All right. Dear Representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8119	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Dear students, I see they've joined us. If the old Latins listened to this today's debate, they would undoubtedly cry out about the tempara omoris. About time and customs and there'd be nothing wrong with shouting. That is why time is available for us to learn, and customs usually tell us what we need to learn and learn as something. But it seems to me according to our discussion today that we haven't learned much. I guess this is the only rust in the world in the political history of the world in which it is really possible for the current government to implement something that the former government has promised and should have done. Something that was also a pre-election promise between me and my party when we were part of the coalition. The fact is, this is what the current government is doing. And perhaps we could understand and need to understand it because the fact that there is always political continuity and fiscal policy and in general in the politics of a single state. Because what one governmental has come to do if a good measure is economic social, whatever should be done in the continuity of another government. So that's acceptable. However, the former government that was to do so today suspects and accuses the government that did exactly what the gentlemen had promised. That's neither logical nor politically correct. We can claim today that we have given up on promises in the meantime, and I will remind you that one of the important reasons why HSLS came out of the coalition with the SDP is the fact that we have never revised our programme in which VAT cuts were made. And it's not right for a government that has the courage to cut the PDWE today to say gentlemen, you can't do that and it won't be good. If it's not going to be good, we'll call the government to account. But the fact is that she's been doing something we've been saying for five years, which our citizens have already slowly and accepted as the fact that it's going to happen. The fact is, this government has the courage to do it. But it's not the end of this political I'd say not only conversion but also perversions, but even today the former government and the strongest party of the former government say that the government has to do what it didn't want to do. Gentlemen of the SDP and gentlemen of the HSS when it comes to agricultural food products, you had four years of comfortable time to do so. The differentiated VAT rates you could have at the final cabinet session and at the final session of the Parliament without any difficulty, and I would even say no, I would say even at a national consensus we could vote it out. But you gentlemen have changed the HTV Act three times that was the most important thing, but you haven't introduced differentiated rates. And now commit the government to do it for you. I ask you, the Croatian state in which people finally need to be held accountable for their political promises. And leave it to the government that's politically and promised to do it. So much for political correctness. I don't know what I'm trying to say. If the government has the courage to do so, surely that economy cannot harm it. The reduction of 2% rate can only have a positive impact on liquidity and in no case harm the economy, which does not mean that I agree with those or the same hunch as those who predict black today that they may not benefit Croatian citizens in purchasing power. The question is whether it will please but certainly the economy can't do any harm. Therefore, if the Government wants to do so, I think it is the task of all of us in the Croatian Parliament to allow the ministers of the Prime Minister, the government to do so from 1.1. so let us see the effects because it cannot harm the economy. And it is not true that we need to give up today's opposition demands or that we should give up this proposal just because the state cannot give up 3 billion states must give up 3 billion because Croatia's public spending is too big. The only way to force the government to reduce public spending is by now to defuse without part of the income. We all have to be aware of that. Croatia spends in the budget above what Croatian citizens can earn. And we have no other model than to simply tighten the belt and reduce the government to the framework of public spending that Croatian citizens can pay. So why don't we do it? It is clear to me as a liberal member of HSLS as a liberal party that all taxes should be reduced. ALL tax burdens as much as possible for the citizens more need to be tempered. Perhaps this is not acceptable because of the political orientation of other parties to others. But the Liberal Party always and consistently advocates that as a public service, the state can only spend as much as those same citizens of the economy. Everything else is spending beyond the possibility of citizens themselves, which eventually always brings citizens to their heads. As for the differentiated rates, as HSLS, my bismko and them accepted precisely because we are always to reduce the rate. However, ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing differentiated rates precisely for the two economic branches that, in my court, are the most speculative of fiscal revenues. Tourism please, we have heard nicely from the minister we kill less than VAT during the tourism season than we do when it's a dead tourist season. All of this tells us that just in tourism is the biggest tax invasion, all of it tells us that it's for those three months the highest percentage of the gray economy. And all that tells us is that we don't know how to charge the revenues from tourism. Even today I ask you nicely here is my colleague Cacic well thought out to mention economic experts, and today, economic experts have not calculated the actual income of Croatia from tourism. And we now want to give that tourism a differentiated rate and I think I'm a philosopher, but I think it's basic from the textbooks of any of the finances that differentiated rates are currently incentivizing the evasive. Differentiated rates are the best way to hunt in the blurry, unfortunately in the Croatian society it is very often. So instead of trying to fix the situation in tourism, instead of wanting to answer the good question of Mr. Minister, how is it possible that a tourist country in the peak in three months achieves less income than VAT in the dead season, we actually want to benefit more. So is agriculture. I would certainly support that Croatia does not import food so much. But ladies and gentlemen, we will not reduce the import of cheese, because we will have the rate proposed today by HSS. I want to tell the Croatian citizens quite frankly this is not a matter of fiscality, this is a matter of Croatia's basic strategy. Croatia cannot and will not be able to live from 3 months of tourism and three months of wheat. There is no country in the world that can live on 3 or 4 months of work. And we can introduce some different rates. We can't yet know how to subsidise tourism and wheat, we won't be able to live on four months of tourism and four months of wheat and none of the benefits of fiscal, economic or political will be of it. And I would therefore be like a liberal for differentiated rates and for the reduction of rates if we had clear simulations of indicators or at least a pragmatic effect on the payment of VAT or on revenues to the state budget. Not to mention the state experience, for example Slovakia, I think we all know about it by introducing a unique rate and not only about value added tax but, say, profit tax achieved, so they got a multiplier effect on economic recovery. I believe and ask the minister to consider also introducing a single rate of income tax in Croatia, for I think it would further reduce the tax... the possibility to hunt in a blurry one. Therefore, when we talk about differentiated rates, when we talk not only about VAT but also about other fiscal revenues, we must be aware that the single rate is always fiscally and economically profitable. And finally, I want to say that what we said and pointed out when it was the first reading of the law, by supporting this, I don't think this is enough. Croatia must reduce the labour price, Croatia must reduce huge unnecessary payloads. We all know that our competitive countries in terms of economic investment have about a salary of 40% or 45 that Croatia has twice as much. With such payloads, we can't even stimulate entrepreneurship because employers are expensive... We all know that there will always be fewer funds in our pay bags. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, reducing the rate, or perhaps increasing the non-taxable part that I think there are already proposals, reducing the payload is the best way to boost the economy and re-enhancing the purchasing power of the population. Of course, this requires changes in the entire tax code. It might be better, I agree with some colleagues here if we went right into it, because we all know that segmental and fragmental changes in tax laws are practically causing a mess. Tax administrations will now have to prepare for this, then we should have gone with everything, so the tax administration would also prepare for this second reduction by preparing for VAT reduction. It may not be the conditions and circumstances that are mature for this, but I think it was necessary to think as quickly as possible about changing and the rate of contribution to pay. With that, of course, I repeat again what I was saying when I was talking about the budget, as liberals, we advocate, if we need to get somewhere and compensate these funds, then it's quite clear to us that these are excise duties. Everywhere in the world, all states that are social states take Norway, Scandinavian countries collect most of the budget from excise duties. We have to tax alcohol, cigarettes. Our citizens are quite inclined to see alcohol and cigarettes actually as part of a comfortable life, and it is better to tax than to impose large contributions and taxes on wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8120	I thank Mr. Chehok. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Pecek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8121	Thank you very much, President. Well, a few actually incorrect allegations would like to correct. First, it is incorrect that the former government has done nothing about changing VAT because it is generally known that the reduced rate for the organised stay of foreign tourists for scientific newspapers and magazines, etc. Another false allegation is that differentiated rates would trigger a tax invasion. We heard just before that all developed countries in Europe have more rates, and they don't have a tax invasion than a good tax system. The third incorrect allegation is that this would not have had a quality impact on agriculture. It is absolutely certain that another, different approach to VAT can lead to lower imports of agricultural products, i.e. food and that it can bring larger exports. It is generally known that if the exporter uses domestic re-promatter to get VAT back from the state. That effect is not difficult to calculate. It is also an incorrect quote from Dr. Chehok that a single rate of profit tax should be introduced in Croatia. I warn him that a single profit tax rate has been introduced in Croatia and that the former government has reduced that tax rate significantly and I advise him in the future that there is no philosophical approach on economic issues but to try to speak economically.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8122	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative, Josip Leko. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, counterpart Chehok, except for the political washing for the coalition's exit and the false allegations have come out formally for an agreement with Slovenia for Krško. He listed a lot of incorrect economic allegations. In fact, Chehok argues that economic damage cannot be caused by a reduction in VAT and does not realise that the state is the largest entrepreneur, that it will spend 85 billion in one year. Secondly, public spending will be reduced, and the budget has increased by nearly 6 billion this year. It's public spending. I don't know where logic is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8124	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues would now break up, it would be a break, and after a break at 15.00 hours, the first one is on behalf of the club LIBRE, respected representative Jozo Radoš. I ask the honourable representative of Mr. Jozo Radosh to take his word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the LIBRA. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8126	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen from the Ministry. I think it's hard for anyone who advocates a good policy especially that policy that rests on liberal principles to be against tax cuts. In principle, this is so, but in any particular case certain conditions of the Abby man or politician should be met were indeed for some proposal to reduce the prose. The first condition is that all the necessary conditions are met in terms of fiscal capacity. This implies that tax cuts do not put some important items at risk, and that means that there will be no relevant policies in the conduct of a government policy. And, of course, the third essential condition would be to change any tax proposal or tax reduction. A proposal was made in the tax system found to be optimal. That this is precisely the proposal at that time, given the many circumstances of the macro-economic circumstances of the built tax system, discipline and so on, the development of the economy of the objectives which are to be achieved, that is to say, an optimal proposal. And that, of course, is decided for each country individually. Answering these questions can then be for or against a proposal. But I repeat, if these conditions are met, then, of course, it is logical that one who rationally approaches policy-making, especially from the point of view of a liberal policy that seeks to reduce the strength and consumption of the state, is therefore against some tax reduction proposal. I would at least often warn us from the government if it wasn't our concern, I'd still be here a little bit analyzing the state of our budget. It should be noted that this proposal reduces the revenue of the Republic of Croatia's budget for the coming year but all these analyses are also worth the next year. For about three billion kunas. In doing so, we need to know that this year our budget is about 6.7 billion more than it has been in the past years. And that just over the last few months since the first law reading, we've passed some laws that we've increased primarily social contributions for almost a billion. So that's the law on labor that we've increased the maternity benefits, whose value is about 4 hundred million kuna. It's a pension law that reduced the revenues of the state budget by about 300, 400 million kuna. Yesterday in the procedure, we had a law on the rights of Croatian defenders, which, according to the proposal, would cost the state 105 million kuna, so it's about a billion kunas of new tax burdens compared to what the state had last year. And this should also be added to the budget increase of the Croatian Defence Ministry, which is now called the Ministry of Family, Intergenerational Solidarity and Defence. For about 700 million kuna. Therefore, social giving or giving of the dominant social character this year will be higher by at least a billion and a half. And if we bear in mind that this increase in the budget I was talking about, the projected growth of the gross national product of about 3%, then it is clear that with this growth and this increase in the budget, it will not be possible to reduce the deficit of the state budget as an axis of speech. And as a result, the direct consequence is actually an increase in the borrowing of the Republic of Croatia. Whether it's foreign or domestic borrowing. And these are the reasons why we believe that the first condition is not met, and that means that in the country's overall financial business, no premises have been created to reduce this tax. In his first reading, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader spoke about how this amount of about 3 billion kuna would be raised spoke of using natural raw materials, operating public enterprises, reducing the gray economy, introducing discipline into public finances. And also in the explanation of the finance ministry in this second reading, we expect that there will be better supervision and better tax collection. So, in this year's implementation of these measures into the state budget, about 3 billion kunas will be poured into the state budget. And Mr. Minister also talked about some other aspects of budget filling, so he expects that there will be an increase in the revenues of the state budget. I must say, however, that all these measures he spoke at the last session when this was in the first reading of the Prime Minister. And the ones the finance minister was talking about today are all long-term measures. It is difficult to expect that these measures, which are of general character to be taken by each government, will increase the revenues of the state budget so much over one year, that this hole will be compensated by the loss of value added tax revenue. We of course welcome all these measures, in all these segments the government should act of course but it is therefore a long-term job, it cannot be changed an aggrieved by one legislative proposal. And of course we're going to follow the result that the government in that segment is going to achieve, but it's hard to expect, in that sense, that after a number of years and the attempts we've had, we're going to have such a high success of government in this system policy that we could make up for a loss of 3 billion in revenue over the course of one year. And why the opposition is talking about it, because a potential deficit in the budget, which means increasing the deficits of the state budget, can have very serious consequences for all other policy segments for which we are citizens and as representatives, are particularly interested. In my opinion, of course, it is clear that there is no other condition for this legislative proposal, which means that this proposal will not endanger the implementation of other good policies by the government of the Republic of Croatia. So I'm afraid at the end of the year, because we're going to have an increased deficit either by borrowing any budget rebalance in terms of cutting the budget, we're going to come into a situation where we're going to reduce education, for entrepreneurship science, for development. And the team equally endangers some other vital policies of the Republic of Croatia. And I think it's because it's not even a condition. The third condition to be for tax reduction law is that the law is exactly the best law given what the country wants to achieve at that time. I believe that this law is not such a law and a simple reason why this law will not reflect to the greatest extent possible as a positive move for economic development. Because it absolutely depends on the merchants, on their goodwill. What's going to happen to that over-income of 2%? and if we do not have strong enough infrastructure to force them to leave that money in the economy, that money will unfortunately end up in personal consumption, or because we have a lot of foreign ownership in our trade chains in the country will end up outside the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this money and the provision of extra profits to traders, which will end up in their increased consumption, or in the outflow of these money outside the Republic of Croatia, which neither is good. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader called on traders to cut the margins, after the state has reduced the tax by 2%, to reduce the margin by 2% more, so that the price for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia falls by 4%, to which one entrepreneur returned that it is not responsible to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but to its shareholders. Therefore, all our traders, entrepreneurs, will behave in the logic of their entrepreneurial interest, and only in the conditions of the highlighted competition would this law result in a reduction of prices. And we're not sure that's exactly how it is in this country. And that's why I don't think this law is good about the optimization of the tax procedure. And so these are the reasons why we can't be on behalf of the Club of Libre for this legal proposal. Here it is said, there has been a speech by the minister that this bill is not relevant for this fiscal year. However, it should be said that all arguments mentioned are also valid for next year. Therefore, the delay of this law, which puts off its application for a political debate on the relevance of what we are saying, is absolutely irrelevant, because all these problems are waiting for us next year. Thus, it is said in the explanation that, the law is delayed and that the tax system will be charged and supervised, and I have already said that revenues will be higher. I'm afraid it's not possible at first. I have no doubt the Ministry will take some measures in this regard. But absolutely not possible is one mechanism that has been real for decades to change over one year, because these have been the attempts of many governments, all governments, all governments have placed a major or one of the most important cards of their division, but this is a question of overall relations in the tax collection system, the overall mechanisms that the state has available, including tax culture. Therefore, in this sense, it is difficult to expect such great results as is expected by the Ministry of Finance. and I think that delaying this law, with this argument actually confirms that all the arguments that I've been talking about here, which means that there will be no success in that segment and that this confirmation is actually a fear of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry of Finance that it will not be able to fill that hole. That's why it postpones the application of this law for one year. And by then, of course, we should trust that we will have stronger economic growth than it was designed. That really these measures that the Ministry of Finance is talking about will succeed. And of course we'll have a stronger consumption discipline than it's shown over the past few months. When we have spent nearly a billion kuna on consumption projects alone, social projects, and that the country is actually available, when it comes to policy-making, there is no infinite number of billions, our budget is somewhere around 80 billion kuna. But in fact, the part of the budget available to policymakers is ten times smaller, and we have spent a billion, one billion and a half in social contributions, and therefore the room for policy-making remains small, and these are the reasons why we are concerned at Club Libre with this proposal. We fear that this bill at the end of this year or when it comes into effect, of course, what is a delay in the problem, will actually cause a rebalancing of the state budget in terms of reducing its items, which can therefore endanger policymaking in other segments, or the consequences of this law will be the borrowing of the Republic of Croatia within the Republic of Croatia or outside which there is little difference, because we know that most banks unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia today have foreign capital in our hands. So here are the reasons why we can't be on this bill. And we believe that the legal proposal that libra, together with the HNS and PGS, has referred to the legal procedure of this law, the legislative proposal to reduce, or increase the untaxable part of income tax, hence the reduction of income tax, is one that cannot be eliminated, which does not depend on the entrepreneurial will of this law, and of course there will be speeches when we defend our proposal. This does not depend on the entrepreneur, but will either result in a reduction in gross wages, so this means a very clear direct reduction in the cost of economic life, which means development or there will be a retention of the same gross salary, and then this has a direct consequence of the increase in net wages. and we think that at this time, in these circumstances where Croatia is present, where development is actually our primary political need, that this law is more optimal than both of these draft laws. And these are, of course, the reasons I repeat why Club Libre welcomes the government's willingness to cut taxes, which, of course, makes it difficult to be against at this time, for these reasons after this analysis that I hope is acceptable to present here before the Parliament, we will be against this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8127	I thank my colleague, Radosha. Now we've exhausted the club debate. We're going to an individual debate. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8128	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. In my presentation on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, I would refer to the reasons why I accept, or support the Government's proposal. But also explained why the SDP Club's proposals are not acceptable in order to realistically assess the final results of the amendments to the law and its effects on the economy and the end-user of the citizen and the ordinary man. In order to relieve end-use and a positive effect on entrepreneurship, the government is proposing, as has already been said to lower the overall VAT rate from 22% to 20%. The application of a lower general value added tax rate would be very quickly reflected in the country's macroeconomic picture, through consumer discharge, increasing citizens' standards, stimulating entrepreneurs and their more competitive product prices in a well-known general flood of cheaper import products of dubious quality, curbing the grey economy and reducing inflation levels. Initial income from value added tax in 2005 will be estimated to be lower by around 2 billion and 700 million kuna. The results of the value added tax reduction will not be achieved without rapid and effective control of its application. This is what the Government also emphasises in the context of its proposal, and by 1 January 2005, if all organisational preparations and adjustments in the tax administration were to be made to advance the system of collection and supervision would be carried out by 1 January 2005. I also believe that the proposed criminal provisions are very important because the law without sanctions is not the law. Entrepreneurs with positive business morality themselves seek to comply with the law because unfair competition destroys them. The SDP's proposal to introduce differentiated rates, i.e. 12%, for certain products and services, as well as the extension of products that are taxed at a zero rate, with all their arguments about justification, social and developmental character, are not acceptable for a number of reasons: first, its implementation is expensive and long-term. The reduction in value added tax from 22% to 20 is much easier to implement for the taxpayer because of the existing computer programs for its calculation that do not need to be changed, the stalking forms, the way in which it is filled, but also because of the lower costs in its application. The introduction of higher rates reminds me of the 5-foot Transport of Products and Services Act, which was valid until 1998. I also remember the problems in calculating product calculations due to difficulties in determining at which rate the product belongs. In particular, when it comes to border products which, by their nature, can be taxed at least at two different rates. The dilemmas were often addressed by the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration, which took a long time. A modern, modern entrepreneur wants to quickly and simply resolve his tax liability. Another reason why I do not support the SDP's proposal is that the implementation control would be more slow and ineffective and the effects you would achieve would not be adequate with the funds invested. The increase in tax rates increases the administrative costs of tax collection. A country that applies a value added tax at a higher rate must have more officers to process complex applications than a country with a one-stage VAT, and we know that we, our Government, have opted for a smaller, more efficient administration. The European Union also recommends to its Member States a reduction in VAT rates and pursues a single rate and the final result of this process will certainly be one rate. Third, I believe that social policy cannot be guided by the application of the value added tax at a higher rate. The theory and practice show that the application of targeted measures aimed at a clearly selected population group is much more effective and is cheaper for the budget than the general, non-selective measures that at least some also help those who do not need help. The introduction of more VAT rates does not completely eliminate its regressive action but also further introduces indirect subsidisation of the rich. I therefore support the Government to address social note and social character with a number of other measures within the tax system such as direct transfers from the State budget, such as helping the unemployed and other socially vulnerable categories. Ensuring free textbooks for students, equipment for newborn children, as well as progressive tax on income and other tax features. And at the end of the debate, I would like to say that it is certain that lower and simpler taxes are the key to a new relationship with entrepreneurship and the driver of a new entrepreneurial spirit in Croatia and that is why I support the government's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8129	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8130	It says a respected representative of the European Union's country is seeking one step. Of the 15 countries in 14 countries, the representative says: “The EU’s country weighs one step” [[Intruder: Difficulter.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8131	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8132	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I will also argue in the debate, and also in the vote, to support the law proposed by my party, although it seems a little absurd to talk today about two draft laws that are in two, two different stages in the procedure. One is the final proposal, and the other is the first reading as if, as if in advance, it's meant to say that the other has no chance at all to pass, so let it go into the second reading or finally, the final bill. Perhaps it was more democratic to discuss SDP's law in first reading, and then let both laws go into second reading to face arguments and opinions once again. When I debated the first reading of the government's bill, then I just remembered that there is enough time for discussion and adoption of the VAT law to appeal to a professional, political, reasoned debate on what kind of VAT Croatia needs, and to respond to all those intentions which, which the citizens of Croatia expect from the tax system. That was one thing. And secondly, I have advocated that in that time we should take advantage of or get the opportunity to discuss the beginnings of the entire system of tax reform, so tax reform, which will certainly ensure Croatia's new development cycle. Unfortunately, not only did we not have the opportunity to discuss this, that the public did not have the opportunity to do so, so I have to say neither the need to discuss enough, nor did the Ministry of Finance organise some round tables or analysis or a conversation of experts about what, which VAT rate would actually be the wisest to apply in the future to ensure therefore all of those national objectives around which there is a national consensus. It's a good thing we agreed on one thing, which is that there's a need to reduce the VAT rate. It is not good so far that we disagree or that we probably won't be able to reach a consensus on how much VAT should be reduced, but it would be good if we reduced it if we didn't need to change it again very quickly. And now allow me only with two examples to try to disprove the government's negative opinion that she wrote by rejecting the SDP's proposal to reduce the VAT rate or to introduce a differentiated rate, a third rate of 12% and an increase in the number of product groups with zero, zero rate. This, in particular, claims that regressivity in tax policy is not a good instrument for social policy, but that direct transfers from the State budget such as financial assistance to the unemployed and other socially vulnerable categories could thus result in this social sensitivity being shown or their position being improved. So set the example first. The average salary in the Republic of Croatia is about 4000 kuna, 3900 kuna and some kuna, but we will round to 4000 for easier calculation. Let us now look at the effect of both of these draft laws on the average salary or on the average citizen of Croatia. What life needs can satisfy, therefore, with an average salary, i.e. the structure of the consumption of the average family in Croatia. The average family spends on meeting the basic needs of life, i.e. housing, nutrition, clothing, children’s education. The housing if we apply the rate the government proposes, so from 22 to 20, there will be a reduction of what is paid in the apartment, for example, regardless of whether it's rent or own apartment, so we have direct costs, so somewhere there will be 2%, round again to 2%, although the real effect on the reduction is about 1.71 or 4000 kuna, so the average family will be able to buy more for 80 kuna, so that will be the effect of this reduction in the government's VAT proposal. 80 kuna a month. However, if we apply the SDP proposal of the law here in the first reading, the average Croatian family will be able to buy much more because if we take about a thousand kunas to be spent on housing, the application of the SDP law will not have an effect, however, on these thousands of kunas, there will be significant savings, so a portion of the product will be bought at 12%, and a portion of the product will be bought at a zero rate. If, therefore, at these 3,000, we again apply an average rate of 10% of VAT since then, although it would be less dependent on the structure of consumption, so the average Croatian family with average salary, which is the most in Croatia, would save, not save, but get the opportunity to buy between 300 and 400 kuna more products and those products that make up their basic needs, daily needs. With 300 to 400 kunas, a family that has 4 thousand kunas of income can do a real little miracle. That's not 10% of them, it's a huge 400 kuna that, by applying the law proposed by the SDP, this family burns. An example of another. I was on a car show yesterday and I heard that the new models of a brand of car that looks great and on average costs 50,000 euros that 50 pieces had already been swept up so that Croatian citizens had soared. Who can buy that car? The average family with average salary, and I repeat it most in Croatia, should do nothing but collect all the receipts and let them buy that car for 9 years. However, there are clearly 60 families already, and there will be far more because we know that over a billion euros in car imports per year, so these citizens, using HDZ's, pardoning the government's VAT proposal, are still the coalition government, so the proposal for a law on the reduction of the Croatian government's VAT, so these citizens will only on this one transaction that will buy a better car they will be squandering somewhere around 7 thousand kunas of VAT or almost two average salaries of an average citizen of the Republic of Croatia who spend a month living out of it. There is, of course, no application of the Government's proposal to reduce VAT to an average citizen in the case of buying this car. But there's another fact. In order for the average family to achieve this savings of 7 thousand kuna, which will result only in one car purchase transaction, the average family will need more than 80 kuna per month, so 80 months will take the average family to reach the amount of 7 thousand kuna savings on VAT. Now the question is, of course, for whom is this law intended? Is the law intended to improve the standard of average family and average citizen or is intended to improve standard and enable those who can buy a car of 50,000 euros to buy a better equipped car. Question to ask, let the citizens answer. Furthermore, if we're talking about the most intelligent policy, then you need a baby for about 500 kuna a month. By applying the government's proposal, you're going to go for 10 kuna by applying SDP's bill, you're going to burn 100 kuna. 100 kuna is one package of diapers, a large 100 diaper package, and for 10 kuna you can't even buy a Swedish diaper. Now the question is whether and to whom does it pay at all who has so low prices up to 20 kuna, say, apply a rate, a reduced rate of 1.71 because the government says it will be expensive to calculate a third rate of 12%. So I think at all these low prices of these products bought by average citizens won't have any effect, and you can see that for example in newspapers, because if the rate of 1.71 is applied, the paper will certainly not be cheap at 5.96, and if the SDP rate is applied, the newspaper will cost from 6 to 5 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8133	Thank you very much. One notice. President of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Neven Jurica, called for a meeting of the Committee today at 16:30 in hall 84 with agenda – giving an opinion on impeachment and deployment of the heads of diplomatic missions of the Republic of Croatia abroad. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8134	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is the professional public, and international institutions are much earlier, and the general public is now after what dares and as it is common after hundreds of days of the rule of the new government to say not only is it not impressed by what has been done but it seems to me that it is too classy to determine what is otherwise said in such situations when promises are not carried out. Namely, one of the HDZ's strongest election promises was precisely that, we will reduce VAT immediately. So I'm going to say something later on about one law or another bill, but no one here is looking back, or somehow it's like it's forgotten the fact that HDZ in the pre-election campaign announced that it will immediately reduce VAT, and this is just the fulfillment of the promise that happens, and we'll only see if these conditions are met next year. So this law that would eventually be passed is also uncertain and should be said about it. So what's up with us as an opposition to claim that this really is about a con voter's electoral body. In fact, we still find it unclear, even though tax policy is part of economic policy, we are completely unclear what kind of economic policy the Government is leading. She has still remained a great stranger, even for us here, let alone for a simple citizen who has no opportunity or opportunity to be at the source of all information. It's unusual, then, that vacato leges is so long. It's something unusual even in legal legislation, in the process of even adoption. This is done exclusively when a whole one, one structure of the administration of the state or some other bodies needs to be adapted to know how to apply the new law at all. We've seen some funny things, and I wouldn't be talking about it right now, some government members were saying, well, if it were easier for our citizens to count on whether, by the system of tens, is it, but when that number is two-digit, there's two and that sort of thing. So, something that, I mean, is underestimating citizens. However, even if this law came into force immediately, it will not boost economic activity, will not increase the tax base, will not reduce tax ejaculation, therefore, the citizen will not feel it. It is important for one country when it adopts laws, and I think one logical consistency of all laws is that they complement one another and one consistent government policy is seen. And how righteous they are in it. Here the tears are shed by the government at the expense of many neglected, dissuaded, those who, behold, barely make ends meet, but a lot of feelings have been sought out, or expressed over our entire destiny as a nation, because there we are dying out. This is where the SDP Club proposes something quite logical and which is cheaper than, or more effectively, some three-year maternity leave that would eventually result in such effects that the birth rate would increase. So what our ordinary citizen, the young families who really don't decide because of, uh, having more children, is this. This is a proposal, at least one of the attempts to solve something burning in every family. That's what makes every family look big because these costs are huge, big. I'm not going to repeat what my colleagues have described so plastically. And it's an essential feature of every authority's leadership that's what counts for justice. It has been said so many times here, and it's so clear that this law that the government is proposing is going to cause damage, and the benefits will be given to them, the pockets of those who are already full anyway. So it seems to me that one thing is a naked promise, an empty promise, and the government's opinion that rejects the SDP club's proposal is really too much to talk about. Some colleagues here have already thrown it out in some way and ridicule. I think things are serious, so I wouldn't even read it, you know. To say something, therefore, that the deficit in the budget will, in the reduction of VAT as the government sees it, be at peace with the once greater efficiency of the tax authorities, one more effective tax charge is completely unrealistic. But we're about to introduce the Financial Police. It is too high to point out that in a very short time an increased tax discipline could compensate for what the minister himself was talking about. At the same time, we have seen that measures are being taken that will enable, without any criteria to certain economic operators or private persons who carry out certain economic activities, but any criteria that may be fair, but are totally non-transparent to the public, and then because of their non-transparency, they cause serious doubts about justice, any justice that the government, or the tax authorities, will, in their own opinion, release tax obligations, and the other will be sent to the Financial Police. So that's something that's causing serious concern. On the one hand, this proposal does not take into account, on the one hand, the basic constitutional principle of uniform tax compliance, and on the other hand, in these additional measures that further complicate the whole thing. So, clearly, it's a simple naked promise given as the smoke curtains of those, and that's what our media have argued, a few times that have extra words and that want to compensate them right now with a lack of action. It is therefore in power to comfort the citizens less cheaply and to complain of their fate. So one specific solution is required. Therefore, I think it would be both fair and directional to this resulting, this legal proposal stemming from the SDP Club because it is just, because it takes care of what you wanted to show to guide your proposal, but that is not the case. Sadly, the people do not offer cheap comfort on the one hand with such legal suggestions but are filled with the pockets of the few. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8135	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8136	Here's why I'd like to correct some of the sequences of incorrect, but that's why the very politicized allegations of a colleague. Among other things, is the con of the electoral body, citizens will not feel that 2%. Well, here, I'm asking a hypothetical question. If those 2% won't feel like citizens, if we can also punish bad traders so why didn't you raise the VAT by another 2%, to 24% and not leave all these debts and not have a budget deficit. That's both, one quote, if that's a political promise we at least promise our political promises, and you promised 6% reduction, so you didn't do anything. We're running out, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8137	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8138	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We have two laws and two concepts ahead of us. One is the reduction in the overall tax rate, the other being the introduction of differentiated rates. Let's think about what one means, which means the other, what are their advantages, what are their disadvantages. First, the Government's proposal, a reduction in the overall tax rate. That, of course, reflects on one side of the country, on the other side of the public. What does that mean for the state? For the state 3 billion kuna less in the budget. It is legal for the government to reduce the overall tax rate, probably and welcome whenever it can be done. It's always good to cut taxes. But it's a little weird that the government is proposing that because I'm reading it in the paper today, and we're going back to a time of indifference for four years, we didn't know what "individence" meant. The university complains today that the Ministry of Finance doesn't deliver money to them. Social care institutions, they're threatened to turn off their phones, they can't pay for electricity, they can't pay for food suppliers, and the government is proposing a 3 billion reduction. It is strange that the government, on the one hand, is stopping development programmes such as the railway, and is proposing a reduction of 3 billion in the budget. It is strange that the government on the one hand promises pensioners an increase in the average pension of 50% of the average salary, which also costs 3 billion and will give up 3 billion. And all in terms of budget deficits. It is therefore clear that this promise made to the pensioners will hardly be met because it also gives up development programmes and because we are returning to that terrible age of indifference suitable for every corruption and for every crime. What does that mean for citizens now? So what it means for the state is the government's problem, the problem of Minister Shuker, how he's going to solve it we don't know, but let's see what that means for the citizens. Whether citizens will have any of these cuts of two index points, that depends on traders. They are completely in their mercy. Merchants can certainly cut prices for that amount and they don't have to. The price reduction, however, was triggered by Prime Minister Sanader's appeal. But please be nice, so Minister Cobankovic is the wine maker. Well, he hasn't listened to his prime minister's appeal by now, so he's reduced the price of his wine by 2%. He has not reduced, nor will he reduce, nor will he reduce any other merchant and manufacturer. There's also proof of that. Customs duties on non-imported food are being reduced. Food from the European Union. There's food on the shelves all you want in our shops. Has anyone noticed that the reduction in its price for the reduction of customs duties? It's no one. The merchants took that downsizing as well as the 2% VAT. No appeal can help nor state or financial policy can lead to appeals. Now let's go to this second motion differentiated rates. We suggest food products. First, he'll help the peasant, he'll help the agrarian, so why? Well, because his product will be cheaper. Well, of course they'll be more competitive. It'll be easier to sell. What does that mean for consumers? For all consumers? The introduction of a differentiated rate of 12% means cheaper food. Mr. Shuker, how much does your family spend on food a month? I guess as much as any other average family, no more. So let's say it's a minimum of 1,000 kuna. Food mainly consists of those products for which we propose a reduction in the tax rate. It means that in every home budget, that money would remain. You don't accept that. Second. Tourism. Well, people of God mean tourism to this country, so I guess we don't have to prove it. Well, our tourism is located in conditions of competition with other tourist countries that have differentiated rates like Italy on examples. So let's help out our tourism. So let's help him be competitive, so it's in the interest of all of us, it's in the national interest. An excuse for introducing a differentiated rate in tourism, so I guess nobody needs to be proved and explained. Third. Daily paper. Look, if we put pressure on the tax, they'll have to go yellow. They're going to have to produce tabloids. They'll have to because they have to, they want to make money, they have to survive on the market. So let's help them issue a serious paper without yellow. It was an intention, which is the intention of this SDP proposal. And let's help the citizens get better information. Well, that's in the general interest. For they will not give up the publishing of the newspapers, so they will not, nor are they in the world; but you have the tabloid as much as you will. We're lucky they're not here yet, but they will be if the state continues to put tax pressure on the publishers. Third. Baby food. Now, please, on this example, I'm going to prove which model is better for the citizens. Prove it. This is a box of baby food, it costs 30 kuna. The child spends six to seven of those boxes a month. That's 180 kuna. This is juice, this is tea, it's tea, the child spends two boxes of this tea a month, that tea costs you 32 kuna, it's 64 kuna and this is juice, juice, juice costs 13 kuna and the child spends, drinks a bottle of juice like this every day, no more, it's another 390 kuna. All together it's for a child up to the 6th month of life 634 kuna. The government is proposing to cut the rate by 2%, by two index points. In a month, citizens would pay 10 kuna less. On what we propose in a month, Kuna would pay 114 kuna less. And that's 1368 kuna per SPD model in a year and 120 kuna per government model. What's better for citizens now, is that what I'm asking you? Look, this government stands for the most intelligent policy, completely justified, completely justified. And we're up for it. And we think we should do everything in this country to give birth to more children. And make it easier and cheaper to raise them, so it's even possible to raise them. But give, instead of demagogy, instead of talking about it, instead of extending maternity benefits, maternity leave, instead of increasing your birth benefits that you haven't done yet, let's do something that won't be demagogy. Let's help these parents save 138 kunas and only on these basic products. My colleagues will later say what it means to be a diaper, what it means to be a shoe, what it means to be an example of clothing. We're going to prove and prove that this model is more favourable to the citizens. So come on, we invite you, think again, let's let go of our perverse pre-election promises. But we invite you, accept this model because it's more favourable for the citizens, because it's more favourable for those kids, because that way we're going to help even the most intelligent policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8139	Thank you, dear fellow Stazic. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8140	Mr. Stazic said this, we are going back to the time of indifference. On the contrary, the state fulfils all its obligations and for any temporary difficulties, Mr. Stazic, it is your Government's fault that I would say in a one-off and irrational way that I would be in a harmful position both for the economy and for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8141	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8142	Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In his presentation in the second part, the esteemed colleague stated that a family on child food would save 1360 kunas, however, in the first part of his exposure that refutes this part of it, means an incorrect quote he said would end up in the pocket of merchants. So that money wouldn't end up in a family pocket.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8143	Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8144	Mr. President to the President as recommended by the World Health Organization... Is the best, so HDZ stands behind mothers feeding children with breasts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm correcting an incorrect allegation and an incorrect process of advertising food that doesn't even stand behind the World Health Organization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8145	Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, so I'd like to look back at the Danes again on this left hand side of the assembly again and again to see that there is indifference in the state. There's no such thing as indifference in the state. However, I would like to warn that the decision on temporary financing that was worth until about ten days ago, which did not cover even 60% of the loads during which it was scheduled, but I would like to repeat what I had already said in the pre - noon debate. The revenue for the first three months in fact, two months and a part of the third is 4.2% higher than it was last year. Since, apart from the salaries of state administration employees, no expenditure has practically been raised, one question is asked, whether non-payments by the former government or something else are generated. And again again, this government is going to fulfill what the last government didn't do. Among other things, I repeat 230 million not transferred to Croatian highways that were to be transferred by 20.11. And the normal thing is that Croatian highways had nothing to pay for work with. Also the decisions of the Croatian Highway Supervisory Board, signed by former Minister Cacic, to transfer billions and 221 million to pay in 2004. Is it generated on... Because those billions and 600 million unpaid liabilities actually raised and not paid in part by HZA were also generated by this government. Because this government did the job for 11 and 12 months to Đuri Djakovic and this one, so she didn't pay or pass the government. So these are the obligations that were made last year and they weren't paid. And I repeat, you can't generate indifference in a rusty impossible dish in two months. That's impossible. That Mr. Linic who you claim to be anists knew about HABORA's loan, so now I have to pay him probably can. If that's how it's done. But I repeat, they're trying to create a mess in the state, with insinuations and stories. And it's happening again today. All obligations will be settled. You know that the road show couldn't get away because of the situation it was. But I repeat, gentlemen here today you are crying over this or that. You've been thinking about 200 thousand civil servants you didn't give a Christmas card to, who you didn't give a regress and who didn't pay for overtime. No one's gonna talk about it. Peeta, you may have asked yourself how many of those servants lost their children's shoes. That'll have to be paid by this government. Because the lawsuits are coming. So gentlemen, these are facts you can't escape from. I repeat the past, the government has made a decision to issue 760 million bonds for Croatian highways. By 31.12, only 360 million were transferred to the Croatian highways. HABOR In 2002, a billion and 600 million are owed, spent from it in 2002. 670 million. See if you can find these sheep in the 2002 budget as a cost there is no such thing. And why because she played the game she played? In 2003 spent 570 million to rebuild find them in the 2003 budget you won't find them, but that's why when the loan returns in 2004, 2005. 2006 and 2007 you will find it in the race of the new side. Now take the new Minister of Reconstruction and Development, when he gets that loan and the cost normally to reduce his ability to act and now someone will say it's okay that it's the right way to run state finances. No, it's not the right way to run state finances. And that's what I can't agree with. So also on the other side of the enthesis, which is going through this whole today in the debate. On the one hand, traders will certainly not reduce prices by 2% if VAT is reduced. But on the other hand, traders will certainly cut prices by a differentiated rate. It's amazing where that safety comes from. If they are such dishonest people as to be spoken of, then the belief will not reduce any other price. I'm just gonna stand there and sew it up. But everything and theoretical and scientific analysis, they're talking about something else. The differentiated rate suits those who have more money. Because I can buy more, the differentiation rate doesn't differentiate exactly. You can't just put food bought by the poor in a differentiated food rate, and the one that collects and so on at rich tables, you won't catch it with a differentiated rate. So I still think that this debate today and once and about the drug law has gone too far into political waters. I've tried and I'm going to say it again several times today, our biggest problem is that we have a VAT charge and also a excise charge in months when we have a few million inhabitants and consumers more in months when practically the tourist season is dead. And that's the information we have to worry about. Also, the law on the achieved and uncomplicated claims announced in this House, where we have found that 24 billion dollars in the revenue of the state budget and the work of the budget of the units of local self-government went into the wind and again we are going at it as if nothing had happened. These are our problems. And those money that doesn't get into the state's budget that I've cancerd in the morning's debate, don't generate economic growth or, they're somewhere black. You know what you can see after the tourist season is very good just as the foreign exchange balance for saving Croatian citizens has increased. The effect of the tourist season, however, is not seen in the budget. So that's our problem. That's the problem we need to talk about. The problem is a riot in expensive finances, the state cannot speak to this or the one until there is no single jury account at the Croatian National Bank while each ministry runs its own financial policy, while each ministry has its own money. Until then, we can't talk about having control over spending. So these are our problems and when we solve these problems then we will be able to talk without political emotion, and far more developed about some things but I repeat budget revenues for these two and a half months are 4.2% higher. The only expenditures that have increased compared to those that were not in the 11th and 12th place are 4.2% of the salaries of officials and subsistence in the state budget. Then if it isn't true that there are so many unpaid accounts left from last year and what money was spent on. By knowing that we have issued 350 million bonds on the domestic market, unlike the former government that was in charge outside. And also, I said in a few days it comes to the collection of 600 million short-term loans for Croatian railways spent last year but not paid last year, but the state took over from HZA. And normally, this year, that 600 million can't invest because someone spent it last year. And now the same hook on the Croatian railroads. There's a problem with spending what we don't have. Let's spend it in the house on a credit card or a current account more than you can pay, and you'll see what sanctions will come to you. Unfortunately, however, there are no sanctions in this country, so someone spent money. You, as a citizen, issue a note without cover. How can a bond be issued for something for which there is no collateral in the state budget, let's talk about it. So these are our problems. And Croatia's deficit is not a problem with this government, Croatia's deficit is also a problem with former governments. But last year's biggest problem is that at the expense of macroeconomic indicators of makeup, these indicators are not books of expenditures as required by the budget law. That's our problem. How can it be spent paying for something that this House didn't approve of? If we hadn't had these six and a half billion spent and these lawsuits that would come that had not been created obligations that were not known to have been secured. I'll tell you just one such absurd and banal example. Former Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Granic signed an agreement with the science unions on these lawsuits three days before the formation of the new government, etc. That it would be paid. But at the same time in the budget, he didn't have insurance money. Then how could he sign the agreement? and how this government could support this agreement. And yet someone will say, no, it's not true, it doesn't exist, but gentlemen signed an agreement from which living people need to get some money, it stands, and this agreement must be respected, and for this agreement we in the Ministry of Science have secured 40 million kunas. Therefore, that 40 million kuna was paid by 31. 12. Probably the Minister of Science of these 40 million kunas could invest for something more. Perhaps you could even give the Croatian Olympics more swearing to prepare for the Olympics. Same story with 530 million long drugstores, where it's clear now that there's that debt 31. It was 12. However, no one recorded it. Why? Why did the government send a report to the IMF that there are no outstanding obligations with 31.12? And according to this, it's obvious there is. I have now cited only two examples, probably during the afternoon there will be an opportunity to talk about others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8147	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Corrections to an incorrect quote. First fellow Stazic correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8148	Out of many false allegations, for a short time it allows me to correct only one. And that's, that's what I said here about the indifference that these are insinuations and stories. Please, nice. The Croatian Employers' Association warns the Government that indifference is growing again, it is not my insinuation, all the daily newspapers are writing to you today, that welfare institutions have not received the money. The directors of these institutions don't dare say their names or names, because they're at the Hebrang Ministry, so they're afraid of falling under his lawn mower that cuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8149	Correction of the incorrect quote by Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8150	So I'm correcting an incorrect statement from the minister that someone said that merchants are dishonest, so no one has said that merchants are dishonest or that they will be dishonest. We're just saying it won't pay the price of six kunas by 2%. It would be very impractical to pay ultimately impractically to pay the paper 5 kuna 78 limes. So, we're talking about low prices mainly bought by poorer citizens will not be paid to cut the price, and this will be shared, this reduction will be shared by producers and traders, such as the example of some Croatian producers abroad when customs duties are reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8151	Thank you very much. On behalf of the second proposer, respected colleague Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8152	Mr. Chairman, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I can understand a minister who doesn't like the 99th year, because reminding himself of the indifference caused by the government, the state, which was the biggest non-payment, is not pleasant. But I'd like to make it very clear. I don't want to go public when we talk about taxes to open up a debate about what a deficit is, and what an indifference it is. But I'd like to ask the minister, when he talks to us, he doesn't interfere with those two notions. And I can understand and accept the debate about what a deficit is, how difficult it is because our budget has a deficit, so it's hard to invest in investment, so we get into this deficit and spending on investment, unlike what's called liquidity called the Ministry of Finance, which doesn't follow the commitments that need to be settled. and we understand, the indifference that appears in Croatia these days is the problem of the Ministry of Finance that has to solve it. He's got to get rid of it. and that is not the question, whether the costs of last year, of this year, are agreed, not agreed, left or right. Obligations must be paid. He's got money, and the minister has to pay. And that's something we need to understand, we're trying to have a problem of liquidity that has nothing to do with the budget, it's got nothing to do with any contracts, but it's the financial ability and responsibility of the government to pay the obligations and that it's the most dangerous, because if the state doesn't pay, it's spreading to everyone else. And there's no reason not to pay the bill, no reason. Nor is the reason so-called. Not enough temporary plan is neither the reason nor the reason for last year's spending. and I would ask, because if we open the topic here on economic and financial concepts, which is liquidity, and what is the deficit, and did the budget deficit have an impact on last year's financing of last year's investment, last year's contracts? That's one topic. But indifference is just a matter of the work of the Ministry of Finance and this government. Because obligations have to be paid. He's got money to pay for it. The mode of financing is a sign that the Ministry of Finance has to work. And that's what's just astounding that we're opening these topics from this pay phone. I can understand the Minister's nervousness, and I understand it, because it's his fault, no one else. Individence cannot appear without the responsibility of the Minister of Finance and that is what we must understand. That's what we need to understand. Four years' worth of indifference was gone. She's been gone for four years. With investment growth, with investment growth, with all the problems they've been having. The cost-to-year transfer. There'll be them next year. But there hasn't been any indifference in four years. He's showing up this year. They're showing up this year. That's what we need to understand. And now I'm going to be very clear. If these are really the problems that the finance minister often mentions, then we have to ask ourselves, why don't we go back to the subject of reducing VAT and reducing revenue in the budget of 3 billion? Whether they should be discussed now for reasons, as it is evident that funds will always be missing. It will take more funding from year to year if we want to maintain projects and programmes and investments and social contributions. But if the government's decision that we have to, that's what we want, because it's an election promise, not because it's our budget... it's our election promise. So the question is, is that a unique rate or a differentiated rate? You know, we can accept that we politicians can say a lot. But today Minister Shuker does not recognise one authority such as Bozidar Jelcic, Croatia's strongest expert in tax systems. And that here the minister from this pay phone says that the unique rate is more favourable, more social than the differentiated one, that's exactly the minute before I said it. Then I have to say it's not a recognition of authority. People who work their whole lives in taxes, which is very clear, that a single 20% rate will not benefit from the poorest layer of citizens, that is the aurity said. Even gives us an example, he gives us an example, that in one rich Switzerland of 7.6% of the basic rates two steps are introduced for the sake of social, political and social and responsibility towards poorer citizens. That's what the authorities are telling us and we want to simply disprove them. No, no, It's true what Minister Shuker says. It's not for us. It's not. And these are the topics of conversation. Therefore, as legislators of the second law, we say very clearly, it would not be wise to reduce revenues in the VAT-based budget this year or next, both for the budget and for the budgetary users and for Croatia's development policy. But if we're already going, then we say that the proposal that we're proposing is a proposal that speaks of being more social and that more benefits than mutually is going to be given to those who are poorer and who have fewer incomes. And that a unique rate is not the one that protects their interests but the opposite interests of those who have more.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8153	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote by counterpart Nenadic, I think.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8154	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the correction of the incorrect quote in respect of the authority spoken of by Mr. Linic. The question arises why is this authority not respected until 2004, and why is the rate of differentiated now being introduced?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8155	This is not a correction to an incorrect quote, a statement of opinion. A colleague of Pleško, a correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8156	I thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Linic said the minister is solely guilty of not paying the current obligations of the Republic of Croatia. I think we can comment on it in a different way. It is known that the budget of all units of local self-government and thus the state budget is the weakest in the first, second and third months. So in the first quarter. It should have been in the spirit of a good host, leaving a good boss in the budget at the end of the year for the liquidity to be normally executed. And you, you spent it all at the end of your term.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8157	Thank you very much, dear colleague. You said so yourself. You started out like this. But I ask you no longer to abuse the plate correcting the incorrect quote. We continue the debate of the esteemed colleague, Zvonimir Puljic. A colleague of Zvonimir Puljic. He's gone. He's losing his right to discuss this matter. A colleague, Željko Nenadić. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. There has already been so much said here about this proposal for a law on enforcement, amending and supplementing the law on value added tax but all in order to politicise the problem that has arisen, not in order to look at the whole problem that has been brought here. And why do I say that? There are three questions that these amendments and amendments to the law define. The first question is to lower the overall rate from 22 to 20. The second question is to amend the provisions on tax exemptions and third amendments to the criminal provision in Article 25(3). So far, I have not heard a word especially from the opposition about what these two other questions are saying. The reduction of the overall VAT rate in the sense that it is a pre-election promise of the Croatian Democratic Community is deliberately highlighted. Yes, it's a pre-election promise but it's not being fulfilled because it's a pre-election promise but there are reasons, objective reasons why it's being discussed right now and why it's being put into office. First, if you have carefully followed and read the government's argument, it is about reducing the price range, improving the competitiveness of the economy, reducing the grey economy and so on. So I believe that there will be a lot more discussion here on this, on this first issue, I would like to pay more attention to the other two issues that resolve amendments and additions to the Law on Value Added Tax. First Amendments to the Tax Liberation Provisions. To date, Article 12 of point 12 stated that the import of goods that are donations or are purchased from a cash donation as well as imports of goods means paid from foreign donations received is the release of VAT. The changes say that all of this remains as before except for oil and oil derivatives, tobacco and tobacco products and alcohol and alcoholic beverages. The aim of the government and the ministry is quite clear, to prevent the abuse of tax exemptions from paying tax on added value because it is quite inappropriate for me to quote part of the law that says: "Humanitarian organisations, health, educational, scientific, religious, social, sports, state, local administrations and regional (regional) administrations will be exempt from value added tax for those products." And it's also quite clear that this is about lost excise duties. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The laws state that when a taxpayer loses his right to work unless it is accounted for and paid a value added tax. So far, the law stated that he could lose his right to work, ban his work if he meant not to do both. It means he doesn't account or pay the value added tax. Now the amendments to the law talk about being lost, getting a ban on work if or not being calculated, or not paying a value added tax which we consider to be exactly what we are missing and it is to close up the space which is undetermined by the law created for manipulation. And this part of the amendment and addition of the Value Added Tax Act is one of the reasons why the VAT rate reduction rate will be reduced because, in this context and among other things, the difference that will arise by reducing the VAT rate will be settled. Therefore, I unreservedly support amendments to the law on value added tax as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And I'd like to say something about the SDP proposal on the differentiated VAT rate. First of all, it is clear in all the documents that we have been able to read that the European Union is seeking a uniform VAT rate. No one claims that the European Union has a unique VAT rate. But if you look a little bit through the near history and the differentiated VAT rates are shrinking dramatically. So one Ireland whose model is very, very close to us is in the last 10 years with 6 differentiated rates came to three with a weekly course to go to one or two. I also disagree with the claim of a respected colleague and professor Dr. The church, which cited the opinion of a well-known tax expert, Mr Tanci, because in the literature available, which refers to the report of the Institute of Public Finance, explicitly states that the respected Mr Tanci cited and proved by calculating that the transition from one to two degrees of VAT increases the administration five times, and the transition to three feet ten times. And that's exactly what this government is trying to stop. It's also being manipulated here by who gets more VAT cuts, whether they're poor or rich? Well, it's quite clear, and I'm going to do you again an excellent example because it can be calculated very quickly and realize that the differentiated rates of VAT get more from a rich layer of society than from the poor. Let's just take an example of cabbage and broccoli. It's the same group, same group, belongs to food, but we all know that broccoli is a few times more expensive than cabbage and broccoli eats a richer layer and there's a difference in VAT that would come with savings much bigger than what it is, rather than that difference that's in desire. According to who will benefit more than the differentiated rate, it is quite clear. For example, the example is simple precisely because, in order for an ordinary person to understand what it is. The differentiated VAT rate definitely benefits a richer layer than the poorer. That is why I believe that we are on track for the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance, we are just on track to protect what is being attacked here, and I think that we should ultimately close down more space than open up the grey economy and manipulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8159	Thank you, dear colleague Nenadić. It's time to correct the incorrect allegations. A colleague Mršić has a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8160	Well, I'd like to correct the inaccuracies that the rich eat more broccoli than the poor. They probably eat equal broccoli because the only broccoli, the only broccoli available to the rich, but if it were a zero rate or 15 or 20% cheaper broccoli, maybe the poorer ones would be more available, so they could eat the same. Unfortunately, drought and desire have made it inaccessible to the poor because the herb is somewhere around 5 kuna now compared to 50 limes two years ago. And the potatoes became inaccessible to the poor. But that's exactly what we're talking about is that it's going down 10 to 15% of the price, not just 2%.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8161	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8162	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It wasn't a correction to
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8163	That's what you think. Unfortunately, it wasn't, this time it was a correction to the incorrect quote because it was talking about the price of the broccoli you were talking about. A fellow Linic rectification of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8164	It's an incorrect quote from my colleague who says the differentiated rate is the differentiated rate of the rich. If in the SDP proposal, a differentiated rate was said to be a lower rate of tax on yachts, expensive cars, huge houses only then would my colleague be right. Since it's about children's food, that's about food, that's not what they're buying at the moment, but mostly just the poor, whose average doesn't even allow the purchase of other goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8165	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Schucker, Minister of Finance on behalf of the proposer. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since there was a lesson here which is liquidity and deficit I would only judge some professional public assessing what, what is the link between liquidity and deficits and how they are interlinked. So you can't say if you finance two billion interest and you collect two billion kunas from the domestic market and place them outside so it doesn't affect liquidity. But we're not gonna talk about it. This one, but I'd like to say one other thing. Professor Jelcic is the President of the Tax Council, which was formed by my predecessor Professor Churchvenac and I was a member of this Tax Council and trust me that according to Professor Jelcic, many tax laws passed by the government would never have seen the light of day. I'm saying it openly here, but secondly, I'm just going to say about liquidity and responsibility and the Minister of Finance. If the Ministry of Finance had not had to pay 11 million to the Bank of Commerce, 11 million Raiffaissen to the guarantee bank for “Vicor Lenac” and EUR 16 million to HABOR for “Vicor Lenac” would probably settle all its obligations, however, for guarantees issued to “Vicor Lenac” and for all that will cost this country as regards “Vicor Lenca” someone else. And we can't keep blaming ourselves on someone else. Some four years were justified for the 1999 debt left behind. Although, in 1999, unfortunately for some of the ugly things about the death of the late president, I remain in that memory as it is, but otherwise I'd like to say something about it. So when we talk about liquidity and indifference, what is it to do a job and not pay for a job? That should be assessed by those who deal with it, and unfortunately that's what was agreed and be assured, Mr. MP, that the finance minister is not nervous about it at all. In fact, we have a plan on how to do this, but the Croatian public should be reminded very much of how politics were conducted and how money was handled and how it was done when coalition agreements did not want to bring certain things incriminary to the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8167	Thank you very much. My colleague Zgrebec will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8168	Mr. Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today, through the debate and on some of the committees where I attended, the other side is always asking us why you did not propose a VAT reduction in the term of office when your party as a coalition was in power. In fact, it should be said that when going into tax reform, economic policy should also be defined. The economic policy of the coalition government was that economic growth should be accelerated. In 1999, it ended with 0.9% of the social gross product decline. It was then decided that it is not possible to go to a reduction in the highest tax income, it is a value added tax but rather to do some other tax policy procedures that are only part of economic or economic policy. Thus, the reduction in the contribution by 4 index points was reduced by a total health and pension contribution. The profit tax rate has been reduced. There has been a reduction or increase in personal or personal income tax deductions, and in later years a few of the reliefs that are currently being applied at the time of the final application of the income tax. So these were measures of business, tax policies that should have been in function of economic policy. Today we are also talking here in the opening statement and Minister Shuker says, this is the beginning of tax reform. It's a little strange that tax reform starts with value added tax and it's a way of reducing the rate. It's not a tax reform at all, it's just a reduction in the rate of one part of the tax. It would be good, I did, and in the first reading of this bill, it would be good to know which direction tax policy and tax system will be reformed, in a way that first we get information, that is to say, that we know that economic policy is defined for the next four years of the term of office of this government and in which segment the tax system reform will go. At that time, we could really assess what it is for us as a society in two segments as businessmen and as consumers waiting for us in the next term. And now if we start to assume if the government so decides that it is possible to deprive three billion kunas of income in the state budget then these two proposals that are ahead of us should be seen in that segment. It should be said that our constitutional category that says that everyone must contribute through the tax system according to their economic strength to VAT is not valid. VAT is a neutral tax for entrepreneurship, and for citizens, i.e. consumers an unfair tax because it is equally paid by everyone who buys a particular product regardless of its income. However, this tax can also be reached in a way that, if we want to, that is, we can reduce tax revenues from value added tax so that it is socially more acceptable. I'd like to ask colleagues who don't care, to come out because they're distracting me from exhibiting. So when you determine what the effects of the total reduction are then you can't figure it out exactly. The government spoke, or Prime Minister announced the adoption of this law, about investing in citizens of 3 billion kuna. In the light of the bill's proposal, it is now said to be a reduction of around 2 billion and 700 million kuna. But when we talk about this investment, we need to take it under quotes, we ask the question in which citizens it is invested. Is this being invested in citizens' buyers, so those who buy these products and use services that will be reduced to the price or will go into a trading network in a way that invests in higher profits from traders, and that's where we come up with these calculations that colleagues have done in different ways, so now we have the last copy of what we want and the broccoli. It's not about how much someone's gonna save, how much someone's gonna cheat on someone, it's about the fact that if we go down from 22% to 20%, then that difference to 100 kuna is only 1.30 kuna. At lower levels, prices are negligible and this really shows the practice of not having a reduction in prices at all because in calculations it is always rounding up. This is what the European Union, citizens of the European Union, felt in their skin by introducing the euro. All prices are rounded up to never lower. But if you're going down from 22 to 12%, that's about 8% of the tax difference. 8% feel lower. On 100 kuna, that's 8 kuna. That's not $1.60. So if you're introducing a zero rate, or you're freeing the value added tax at all, then that's at our level now of 22%, that's a 18% reduction and that's the point. No one accuses traders of putting this in their pocket on purpose, but simply practice shows that there is no reduction in the price of that reduction on such a low percentage. And now, in short, let me just look back on one more and another proposal. The SDP proposal has already been said in the first question in which we think it is fairer, more socially fair and three billion not going into how much and to what extent the revenue of the budget will be deprived and what consequences it will have. But if we really want to help young families with children, then it is recommended that one part of that billion of these three billion kunas actually go to a greater extent to those very families. This means that it is necessary for children's food, shoes, clothing, to be free of taxes. But as the government says through its opinion why not, it says it is not a good instrument for social policy. So if you're reducing by 18% of that price, those gross prices that it's not a social policy instrument. He later says it is not, that it cannot bring any economic effects and calls for new patterns to be created there. They're really not gonna say funny, but arguments that simply no one can take seriously in that way. But you have one contradiction when it comes to the government's proposal. Then all that isn't SDP's proposal is all that's the government's proposal. They say it is a neutral tax for taxpayers, so for entrepreneurs but on the other page it already writes to you, says he will have multiple macroeconomic effects. If neutral, it can't have macroeconomic effects. So it is further said that it will improve the competitiveness of the economy, and when you lower the rate then it will not have such an effect. So he says the grey economy will shrink and when you further reduce that rate and there's really no reason why the entrepreneur doesn't pay that tax, so in that sense it won't reduce the gray economy. So one completely contradictory argument of one and the other bill really speaks about the fact that this is just a political decision and does not want to think at all about how to provide citizens with a slightly greater possibility of buying precisely those who need it the most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8169	Thank you, colleague Zgrebec. It's time for my dear colleague, Joseph Leco. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I have no doubt that this was a decision, a pre-election guarantee, and now it's a political decision. Why? If the reduction in VAT rates from 22 to 20 is a matter of political decision, or will rather than precise economic analysis with effects and mathematically accurate results, then I would, from today's debate, say, overrule what is, what is an advantage, and what is the disadvantages of one or the other, one or the other solution said, let's accept both. Let's take both and we'll please each other. Of course it's not like that. Of course it's not like that. I really expected that, in addition to the very safe effect that the government's budget would lose a 3 billion-dollar security income, I expected it to be and exactly where it would be calmed down from, and 3 billion that would be lost by such a reduction in the rate. Since that is not available, I can say that the declared objectives, however, are only financial objectives, and not economic, and they certainly produce economic effects, I can accept them and say that the government has made a good point in its reasoning, but if I accept them then I cannot understand why the SDP model and the proposal would not be better? Why? If the Government proposal claims that a reduction in VAT tax rates from 20 to 22 will reduce the price of the product and thus facilitate purchasing power, or facilitate, reduce the price of the product and ease the price of the product, then the proposal for a law proposed by the SDP will also reduce the prices of the product, but aimed. So another additional effect will be achieved. They will achieve that the prices of the products spoken of by the SDP Club's bill will facilitate the survival of people materially dependent. At a time when Croatia has 300 and more thousands of unemployed workers who do not work at all, it is really important for them whether part of the goods that are important for the family will be reduced by 2% of taxes or by 12%, or absolutely will not have a tax. So I appreciate that the government seriously thought that reducing the tax rate from 22 to 20 would reduce the price of the product. But then, I repeat, I don't see how that effect won't do when SDP suggests it. We only view the matter socially, so we say, replace it, and we will certainly encourage the consumption of certain products, i.e. the production of certain products. And Croatia's economy has real structural problems, and this can also affect the economic impact of the structure of the Croatian economy. Of course, the citizen is not very interested in where the European Union's countries weigh if they continue to retain two and more rates, tax rates. That's for sure. I have already stated in one communication that of the 15 Member States of the European Union 14 has one, 14 has two or more VAT rates. And out of 10 and 11 countries that are candidates for members of the European Union all 10 and 11 respectively have two and more VAT rates. It is interesting that all countries or most countries have 3 feet, so, generally, reduced and zero feet. What is the economic strength of the Republic of Croatia and what is the social situation in the Republic of Croatia that we say that only one VAT rate is valid for us because it is neutral? Compared to what is she neutral? It is neutral of the country's social situation. It is neutral of the country's social situation. It burdens as much as any product. As a percentage, it burdens each product equally. And we just want not to be a burden on every product equally, to deploy the burden and price and cost of this country. Because of this, I am convinced that there is no citizen of this country who does not think about his future, if not for himself what is absolutely certain because of his children. And the bill that goes towards reducing the tax rate of children's needs I am sure that it is certainly a great deal of attention for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that it will certainly wonder what happened in the Assembly when everyone swears to work in the interests of the citizens, the future of this country, that they do not see that in the Republic of Croatia the social situation is such, 300 thousand unemployed, small birth, or negative birth rate, and do not pass a law where the differentiated burdens the product. I cannot believe that social insensitivity will overcome social sensitivity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8171	Thank you, dear colleague. Correction of an incorrect quote, counterpart Puljic has.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8172	Mr. Chairman, I must point out that I haven't heard from you here now. You can barely be heard, and it's impossible up there. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote, but consider it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8173	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8174	The incorrect quote by his counterpart, Lek, refers to the claim that he expected the government, with its proposal for a VAT reduction law from 22% to 20%, to explain how this part of the smaller funds that will go into the budget, will calm them down and move them away and there is no explanation for it. It is obvious that his colleague Leko did not read the argument of the Law he is discussing because here, in a sentence, I can quote: "Therefore we expect that the initial income from VAT in 2005 can be lower by around 2.7 billion kuna, which will be compensated by better tax collection". You don't have to accept the argument, but that's what it says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8175	Thank you, dear colleague. It's my dear colleague Milanka Opačić's turn. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8176	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Many today have said that economic analysts have recently warned that the wrong moment to reduce VAT is because the situation in the Croatian economy is such that it is necessary to go towards a reduction in the expenditure side of the budget. Unfortunately, this government, instead of going towards a reduction in the expenditure side, has increased the expenditure side in this budget, focused on good spending, stopped and reduced money for development projects, on active employment policy measures and on many other things that have been financed in recent years from the state budget. It all turns out that the budget deficit next year will be greater than it would otherwise be, and this will result in more government debt. The question arises why the SDP in this situation has also proposed, in this way, a reduction in VAT rates. It is primarily because when we saw the government's intention to reduce VAT, we decided that when it is already going to reduce that reduction to be more socially sensitive, to be socially more acceptable and that this reduction of citizens of the Republic of Croatia will feel different from those 2% for which not only we but all the almost economic analysts who have reported in public these days claim that Croatian citizens will unfortunately not feel. Also, according to all the texts that we could read, VAT is relatively, therefore, one tax mechanism that places a relatively higher burden on those who have fewer incomes, and because of the fact that VAT is fairer to socially poorer layers, that is why many countries introduce a differentiated rate and that is why many countries that are therefore far richer than us introduce lower rates or almost zero rates primarily for food products. So here we have suggested that for food products lower than 12%. What's the problem somewhere today's debate from the very beginning is that we've been listening all along that the former government has left many debts to the current government but we haven't heard a single good argument why the government doesn't accept a socially more acceptable VAT and therefore insists solely on reducing the VAT rates of 2%. As someone said this morning the pre-election promises are one thing, the election campaign is one but responsibility for the future of this country, for what it will look like in an economic sense, how we're going to put together the next budget, it's something quite different, and then it should be led by a lot more rapping. It should also be said that there are several discussions in this House about how we have a problem with Natalie. We all agreed here that this is one of our country's major problems. However, we have also warned here often that the existing measures aimed at citizens are insufficient and will not bring about positive shifts. And that's why this proposal we made with a zero rate for children's supplies and children's equipment is something that is much more on the trail of a natal policy than any of these measures proposed by the current government so far. We think that this way we can help citizens a lot more because these 2% of everyone here said, citizens won't feel it, it's going to spread somewhere between traders and so what citizens should feel. However, a 22% reduction or, in fact, a concrete 18% of citizens would certainly feel much more. The reduction of 2% will not be felt by those who need it most, and those who might, to whom this could be reflected as well, for example. to those individuals who bought 300 thousand euros on a Zagreb car show a few days ago. For example, they would. To these 3,000 euros, the reduction in VAT meant about 4000 euros, to that category of people who can allocate such large funds, perhaps these 4 thousand euros would be such a nice gift but I don't think that's the category of people that the Croatian government should worry about. So let’s look at what this means for those who have children, this is where it was already talked about in order, for example. Children's shoes, so if we bring them down to those 250 kunas that some colleagues here have warned about, which I've asked myself about, which is really the lowest price of shoes for children, so that's where the cheaping with 2% would mean 4 kunas lower, and with this fuck-up and the VAT reduction that we're proposing would mean somewhere around 55 kuna. When we look at diapers for children, then it should be said that somewhere in the family it is about a month or so around 400 kuna for diapers, with a reduction of 2%, it is less than 5 kuna, with our reduction of zero because it is less than 72 kuna per month for therefore Croatian families, and it is only one child. In the union basket and in many analyses, therefore, which are about the standard of our citizens, how much our citizens spend on their own needs, it is evident that our citizens spend most of the money on food and therefore children's supplies and directing. Namely, in the last basket I could find, e.g. The diet for the four-member family is about 1800 kuna per month. So, with the proposal, our VAT proposal where VAT would therefore be reduced to 12%, Croatian citizens would have more than 130 kuna in their pocket and with a 2% VAT reduction of only 26 kuna. After these indicators, I think it is quite clear to the Croatian public that the proposal to cut VAT is more social, which is suitable for those who should be eligible, and these are those citizens who have lower incomes and not those who have high incomes and who do not need a VAT reduction. As for the effects on the budget, the effect is the same, some here also said that the financial effect of both VAT cuts is the same. Therefore, what effect will be on Croatian citizens should be taken into account and all the arguments presented here today show that if the SDP proposal was accepted, it would have more positive effects for Croatian citizens than a percentage reduction, therefore proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And once again I say, the problem of today's debate is that there are no real arguments that can be rejected by the SDP proposal and defend the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And in the end, I'd like to say something about not only being here, but the last month, tax reform is announced. There is talk of abolishing benefits primarily when it comes to income tax. Does this mean that this government will abolish the tax reliefs that we have introduced for those categories that are really hard to live in Croatia, so tax reliefs for tenants, tax reliefs for those who for the first time took housing loans still at very high interest rates to take care of, so to secure their roof over their heads, therefore, as for the first time solving their housing solution. For those who have therefore invested in a kind of adaptation of the house, for those who have paid medical services, for those who have been exempt from payments, therefore, taxes for, on additional insurance. So these are all categories that were covered by tax reliefs and it would be very bad if this type of tax relief were lifted to Croatian citizens because it really is one category of people that I think are very important and focused so, according to those who really need it most in order to relieve them and leave them with some funds in their pockets. Here, because of what I've said, I think it would be good to take a little more care of the future of our country, of the future of the budget, of the future of the economy and less of the pre-election promises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8177	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote by counterpart Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8178	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear colleague Opačić here said one expression of social VAT on food. The objective of tax policy is not to implement social policy. The objective of the tax policy is to collect tax revenues more easily, more effectively and justly, which need to be refuted by existing expenditures for public needs. It's in all the books of economics. A more efficient way to help the poor with direct transfers from the budget. And the food and the rest tax at the standard VAT rate. That way we'll help the group we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8179	You may be, you may be right about that attitude but you did not correct the incorrect allegations but expressed your opinion on what is social and what is not social or tax... Through VAT. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8180	A colleague was injured by the Rules of Procedure because I did not at all say social, social VAT on food. I didn't say that, so you didn't have anything to fix because I just didn't say it. ... /Intruder:... Fornogram, social VAT... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] /... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8181	But we do well to continue the debate. It's time for a respected colleague of the Koreans. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. In light of the fact that in the opening statement, Mr. Minister said that there is not much difference in this text to the final proposal of the VAT law compared to the first reading, I cannot repeat a few things that I said then. The fact is that in pre-election campaigns, we all said that our goal is to increase the standard of living of Croatian citizens. Unfortunately, in this Law, he will not go too far in favour of raising the standard of living, especially if we look at the proposal that SDP made because the fact that they wanted me to admit it or not, and as bitter as it is for someone or not, this bill goes in favour of those who are richer in Croatian society. Unfortunately, not the poor ones. If we look at it now, let's take a few items to look at which I've made an effort, so I've calculated how much savings would be for the Croatian family if it were proposed by the Government or if it was going to count on the amendment bill and the additions of the VAT law that the SDP gives. First of all, if we look at everything about children's food, for children's needs, and let's not forget that this particular government is very much talking about the most intelligent policy and asking you both how Minister Kosor even raised her hand at a cabinet meeting like this, and she also raised her hand not to accept the SDP proposal that is now in favour of the ultimate policy. Just for example, children's diapers, I'm not going to name the kind of company whose company it is that you wouldn't object to someone I advertise, which cost, and the prices are from the varazdin stores. The price of such a package is 99 kuna and 90 limes in the store in Varazdin. At the government's rate, the savings would be 1 kuna and 96 June, according to the SDP if you go with a zero rate of savings is 18 kuna and 2 June. If we look at children's shoes that cost about 200 kuna, there are far more expensive ones, but we go what could possibly be available to the widest circle of Croatian citizens, by savings at the government rate means 20% of VAT savings would be 3 kuna and 92 June, according to our SDP 36 kuna and 7 limes. For children's pants or panties that cost 130 kunas under the government's bill of law, it saves 2 kunas and 55 limes, according to SDP's savings is 23 kuna and 44 limes. The children's jacket is approximately 190 kuna in one of the shops, savings under the government's bill would be 3 kuna and 73 June. On SDP 34 kuna and 26 limes. I can see it's funny to Mr. Minister, but it certainly isn't for Croatian citizens. As far as children's food is concerned, I'm not going to say no again, that I wouldn't be in some way rooted in whose food it is. Price that is 12 kuna and 25 limes, 12 and a half kuna in the store. The savings per government model are 25 June, per SDP's 2 kuna, 25 limes and so on and so on. If I don't say for daily newspapers by, savings by government model should be or the price of newspapers should be 5 kuna and 88 limes. I would like to see which publisher in this situation will lower the price of his newspaper, and according to SDP, the price of newspapers, daily newspapers, of course, would be 4 kuna 92 June and to round it up is 5 kuna, which is still a monthly savings of 30 kuna while according to the government's proposal is 3 kuna and 60 limes. Let us not forget that according to the publishers, only 10% of Croatian citizens regularly buy and read daily newspapers. In this package, I also tried to put one family to spend only 1000 kuna on basic food products. In that case, according to the government's proposal, the savings would be 19 kuna, 61 June. According to our SDP 107 kuna and 14 limes, or if everything summed up according to the government's proposal for this whole package of savings would be 35 kunas and 90 limes, according to the bill given by the SDP in procedure 253 kuna, 78 limes or more precisely 7, more than 7 times the savings according to the SDP model. For a Vartex worker where the average salary is 2,200 kuna, and Vartex workers who work often in two, if necessary in three shifts, who earn about 1800 kunas with, with food costs, it is a very significant, significant segment and let us not say that this way we do not help the proposal according to the law which, unfortunately, would have been adopted in view of the climate of the majority coalition, would have contributed to the widest layers of Croatian citizens. The state budget would make approximately equal or equal profits, but the distribution is far more fair, far more social because respected ladies and gentlemen, the one who has 100 thousand Euros to buy a car before paying VAT, he will save 2000 euros according to the Government's Bill proposal, which is about 15 thousand kuna which Vartex's worker earns for 9 months full-time work. The more honest it is for a wider circle of people not to talk. In doing so, they cannot accept the thesis that was said during the morning even by the minister how they can buy someone who has no money. The SDP proposal will keep the worker, the Croatian worker and the unemployed, far more money in his pocket so that he can buy more, and it seems to me that it is precisely the desire for all of us to rise the standard of living this way and this way. I have to say, I can't agree with the thoughts of those who say that the richer they profit more than the differentiated rates. The rich buy expensive cars, the rich buy all the other expensive things while the poor, let's just start with the vartezdin worker's biggest share of their salaries spending just on mere survival. And I don't think that's why I can support this proposal from the government. I would be far happier given the state of affairs, and the fact is that the needs in this country and for the war and everything that's been following us for many years are such that these 3 billion or 2 billion and 700 million kuna would come in handy in the budget that other social programs and not just social funding. Unfortunately, I'm afraid it's going very quickly to reduce the VAT rate. I accept that probably by training stricter or, with stronger financial and tax records, it will go to collect taxes. In the past, at the time of the first reading of this Law, I did not unfortunately receive despite the request from the Minister and his colleagues an analysis of tax collection in the Republic of Croatia. I am afraid that strictness training will go back to northwestern Croatia and the continent, and I would like to see how and where and to how much taxes are collected in this country. Because it seems common to me, it was for, by 1999, that he would start again when more taxes are needed, let's train tax discipline in northwestern Croatia. Once again, I cannot accept the Government's proposal for a bill because it is socially unfair and it seems unwarranted to me not to accept the SDP bill, especially because it goes in favour of the majority of Croatian citizens, especially those who are poorer, who have salaries lower than average, and I would just like to note that in the area of northwestern Croatia, it is precisely such wages that it has the most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8183	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague Nenadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8184	Mr. Vice President, a correction to the incorrect quote of a respected colleague of the Koreans. First of all, I can't accept it, and here you will all agree with me. Mr. Secretary, that's not funny, and none of us are funny here, which is what we're talking about today. It's a very important thing and I don't think we should use it, and the other thing I can't accept is that it's not incorrect, that it's a fairer distribution through a differentiated VAT. Because there have been speeches here and it has been proven that this leads to a breach of the tax system and it is more effective to help the poor with direct transfers from the budget, the laws that we will agree on here in what way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8185	Thank you, dear colleague Nenadić. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8186	Article 209 of my colleague, Nenadic, was injured, correcting my position and my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8187	He corrected an incorrect quote. Thank you very much, dear colleague. He's a pal. A bit of a replicator.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8188	Mr. President, I'd like to apologize first if I interrupted any colleague or colleague in their conversation. Now let me. It would be funny for me to hear Mr. Korenick talking about diapers. And baby food. I'd just like to hand over the following money that the former government put into Victor Lenad, the River Bank and some other missed projects would be enough baby food, diapers and the rest for another 30, 40 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8189	Answer to the replica of my colleague, Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8190	First of all, a colleague could be a little more polite. It's not funny what I said to anyone here. It is unfortunately tragic for Croatian citizens. You can say that if you think that the missed investments in the construction of roads in Croatia, the construction of highways and everything else is going on then it's just sad because the Croatian Government has passed the Parliament's meeting and how carefully and responsibly worked to get Croatia started. And as you run it, the best says state on the railroads where you stop all the projects that should have been launched and completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8191	Injury of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8192	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: Six and seven, and I wouldn't particularly comment on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8193	Well, now that I tell you, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure that has the right to reply to the replica to state your opinion, as you do in the replica of your opinion. Each representative chooses the way he will lose his opinion. We're continuing the debate. It's my dear colleague Milan Meden's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8194	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, the government's representatives. My colleagues and fellow MPs. We were actually witnessing a series of expert discussions both at clubs and at Parliament meetings on amending the law to an additional value or tax reduction of 22% to 20%. The debates mainly went into political spheres and there were mathematical calculations on 6 decimals and calculations on examples of shoes, juices, diapers, cabbages and broccoli. I would therefore like to say a few words before the debate on the bill itself about the economic indicators in the Croatian economy that have been following us these years. It is a little known that Croatian patronage from 1950 to 90 of these years was acclaimed at an average annual rate of 5%. Yet the gap between Europe and Croatia has spread indefinitely. The real sector structure of 50 years ago has not changed significantly compared to today. These are products for older technologies and low competitiveness of the economy. The contributions of the countries in charge abroad already in this year come for payment. And since this course of debt would actually grow by 2015, it would be 120% of GDP, we're actually going into a state that's unsustainable. You will agree with me that the surprising growth of personal consumption in the conditions of high unemployment and high debt of the household sector and minimum wage growth, is the main culprit for high economic growth. If the increase in consumption was not accompanied by the growth of production, the economic growth would fall apart as an adjective as a soap balloon. In macro-economic activities, professors very often in colleges know this, that we have ministers who liked to sign. That's how I believe we're witnessing these situations today. The fiscal policy mkoral would be aimed at defining and accepting the golden rules, therefore borrowing for investment. The difference between the current and the acute consumption. in order to actually achieve an optimal location of available resources by the public sector. In order to reduce budget deficits and halt the continuous expansion of public spending, it is in fact to redefine the fundamental principles of public resource management. The future situation in the public sector and the public sector balance sheet will depend greatly on future developments in economic growth, and the rate of growth of interest rates. These movements in the macroeconomic system require one fiscal consolidation of the public sector, with a minimal need for monetary expansion. Which would actually curb the growth of interest rates. In fact, this is a theory that has succeeded on an Irish model that we have very often called upon. But also known is Clinton Cristin's policy, which by the time of '98, actually mimics the public debt of America and keeps GDP growth at 4%. We have heard about the fact that the advantage and flaw of the bill's proposal in the first reading, and what will certainly happen by applying this VAT reduction law by 2%, is that it will eventually relieve consumers and, in a liquid sense, relieve taxpayers. With money and goods moving in an open competitive market, I would like to highlight the facts and other fundamental macroeconomic indicators that will inevitably happen in managing reduced value added tax. Therefore, in order to reduce and stabilise the level of prices, consumption on the market will increase and increase the quantity of products, i.e. ultimately investment. That definitely means a positive shift in the competitiveness of the economy. Structure investments must inevitably change in favour of research and development and new technologies that will only boost the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and boost exports. It is a desire, in fact, for all governments, but one solution to allow young people to stay in our country. To give them support and to create their innovation in our country and then the old people will come and buy these ideas. If we make a comparison with the other European Community countries, as we have heard today, only Sweden and Denmark have a higher VAT rate of 25%. But the average general rate in the countries of Europe is 19.5%, the SWE said this is a valid confirmation of the eligibility of the adoption of a legal proposal to reduce VAT by 20%. On many occasions we've listened here and the reasons why the differentiated rate is less appropriate right now. I won't repeat myself too much probably we used the same materials with our colleagues. But the fact is that introducing a differentiated rate is certainly administratively more expensive. And we heard in fact that Europe is seeking a smaller VAT rate. Representative STazic said that it weighs, so very simply mathematically, because I am doing this education, say Limus, more rates in Europe at this point tend to a differentiated rate. And why is it a modern tax theory for a simple reason, because the administrative costs of the tax bill are reduced. And that means maximising the value of the budget with the same tax effect. We therefore give full support to the Croatian government to reduce the rate to 20% of full support for the announced co-ordination, and tax reform that will result in the effectiveness of the tax administration and the quality of tax collection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8195	Thank you, dear colleague. On behalf of the proposer of the SDP club, Honorary colleague Antunovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8196	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. We've been having the same argument almost all day and repeating the same story. A little while ago, we heard some additional arguments or at least a colleague who was discussing is thinking that there are additional arguments that could reduce the overall loss rate to added value from 22% to 20%. But I will repeat again even though it was a very picturesque way here today, on several occasions said, such a reduction that is not to support, will unfortunately not cause any positive effects, no effects from those who announce and promise. It is true, in essence, that taxpayers may be disbursed. They will certainly be relieved by 2%, but the effects on the growth of what you are questioning, the growth in production and the growth in the consumption of effects will unfortunately not be. The duty to pay is one of the arguments to be more responsible in the amendments to tax legislation. However, the debt cannot be an argument to reduce the tax rate on added value from 22% to 20% because that debt and the increased debt that will take place to cover the balance sheet deficit, to cover the budget deficit are a completely different kind of problem that needs to be dealt with in a way that all the resources provided on the basis of the debt are directed in such a way that they return to the budget as quickly as possible to positive effects, which means that they should be directed as quickly as possible and that was our policy and therefore we have not fulfilled our promise and reduced the value added tax rate than we have reduced some other taxes to the states which also cut taxpayers but have had a more positive impact on the growth of production and consumption. Let me explain here so that it doesn't turn out that the rate of growth of the gross social product was caused only by the growth of consumption, to present only some of the elements that speak of that growth of consumption being followed by the growth of production. It is true that at a rate of 5% we are still lagging behind the growth that is happening in the developed countries of Europe, however, it is maximum that, in these conditions, Croatia was obviously able to give as a whole. If you look at the parallel indicators in 99 and 2000 then you will see that in 99, industrial production grew at a negative rate of 1.4% and that in 2000, this same industrial production grew by 5.5%. That the processing industry in the 99th was growing at a negative rate of 2.3% and that in 2003 it registered a growth of 5.2%. I don't think there should be any further arguments between you and the Croatian public, but once again, it should be pointed out that regardless of the differentiated rates are not a trend in the world. That we need them if we are to meet and finance and encourage some of the priorities around which there is a consensus in this House, regardless of whether it is a position or an opposition, which is to encourage the birth of children, it is to encourage demographic policy. That's what most of you are talking about. And is there a higher priority, whether there are better measures than those proposed by the SDP by its law, where it proposes a zero rate for children's food, clothing and other supplies. It is that it enters the system of differentiated rates, is that it is not trendy, but it will help more than anything else to young families after we hire them. The first priority is employment, and the second priority is that what are their priorities and what are national priorities we pay at a price from this budget no matter how expensive. And I don't know what you're up against and up against, and you're explaining that it's better to cut the general rate from 22% to 20% and you don't want to accept what it costs, too, but at least then we know it costs and that the price we pay is worth it. That the price is valuable and that it will really be a support to families to get involved in increasing their members, the number of their children because then their shoes will be cheaper 60 kunas, because then their children's food, diapers and everything else will be significantly cheaper and the rest of us who have a different consumption structure will pay instead of 20, 22% for some time and have increased expenditure on average by 1.6 kuna. Once again, we appeal to reason, we appeal to those priorities that you have highlighted yourself, which we are discussing in the last two months at three meetings of the assembly, one on two occasions in particular all day, where we obviously have an opportunity to direct one reduction of tax revenues to nothing or that same reduction in tax revenues and perhaps even an increase in deficits, an increase in debt to something useful and there is a difference between these two concepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8197	Thank you, dear colleague Antunović. Corrections to an incorrect quote. First fellow respected Matošić has a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8198	Mr. Vice President, I will correct two incorrect allegations by MP Antunovic. The first is an incorrect assumption that there will be no effects if this reduction is introduced from 22% to 20%. This is completely incorrect, because it is quite clear that unless the state collects 3 billion kunas that have been spoken of today and slightly more than Croatian citizens, they will be able to invest in something else. It is also incorrect that the government will be in debt due to this lack in the budget because it clearly states in the material that it will not be in debt, that all measures will be taken to improve tax collection, in order to further improve tax policy in this direction and, of course, to bring equalisation to other instruments, i.e. to the resources needed in the budget. So not in a way that the government would be in charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8199	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague of Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague said it was necessary to introduce differentiated rates. That's not true. It's just one of the options that we don't think is necessary right now, so this rate is going to achieve the unique effects that we want to achieve. And I'd just add that it's not true that only diapers, shoes and bottles sound so pathetic, it encourages birthright, it's a small segment, and the incentive of entrepreneurship solves the structural problem and the development of the economy, so this VAT reduction will raise the birth rate if we help the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8201	Please. We're continuing the debate. Dear colleague... Please, I didn't register you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here is my colleague Nenadić's correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8202	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I need to intervene.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8203	It's all right. I didn't see, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8204	The first incorrect allegation when Honored colleague Antunovic explained why the SDP government did not reduce the VAT, that they allowed the production of other tax reliefs, it is incorrect or I do not know, but I think it is incorrect. Secondly, a differentiated rate is not necessary to promote demographic policy. Therefore, I repeat, the objective of tax policy is quite different, and we are a demographic policy, we have had amendments and additions to the birth law where we are from the budget, just filling it with an undifferentiated rate of help to the births.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8205	Thank you very much. It's next, dear colleague Zdenko Antesic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In order not to repeat what has already been said many times, I will limit myself to some effects that, by introducing a 12% VAT rate, would have an effect on Croatian tourism. Namely, a passed legal solution, thus reducing VAT from 22 index points to 20 will have virtually no practical effect on Croatian tourism. I believe that the differentiated rate of reduction for tourism would be 12% clearly, assuming that there remains a zero rate for organised foreign arrivals would continue to be a strong promotional asset for Croatian tourism and would increase the competitiveness of Croatian tourism by about 10%. According to information coming from tourist fairs across Europe, competing countries such as Turkey, Portugal, without speaking Spanish, have announced a 20% price reduction this year. By reducing the rate to 12%, a strong message would be sent that the state is behind a strategically important branch and that would also make marketing effects extremely great. Furthermore, for the 2004 tourist season, hotelers announce an increase in the price of services and accommodation by about 5 to 10% and extra-pansion consumption by 10 to 15%. By introducing a 12% rate these effects would be significantly adjudicated. Furthermore, the possibility of granting discounts for the domestic tourist market... /The speaker turned off and subsequently turned on./... and thus increased domestic tourism traffic. The tourist economy would be scattered and conditions of business improved. Finally, tourism would finally and truly gain the importance of the strategic economic branch and, with its resources, become the generator of overall economic development, thus undoing the initial and negative effects on the state register. I'm going to say, for example, the Rapian "Imperial" which would mean a differentiated rate of 12%. This totals an effect of 6 million kuna, which means a complete maintenance of cold drive in winter months or 3 total gross wages or complete preparation of the tourist season without borrowing. For all Croatian tourism, and indirectly for the whole economy, these are certainly unmistakable positive effects. With the existing legal solution, all these effects, except, clearly, for easier calculation, will be left behind. Otherwise, to say a few more sentences, this constant justification of inherited debts reminds me of that story about the three envelopes that the new director found on his desk when taking office, with a clear, instruction on how to use them. In the first, of course, it was written about all the trouble that blamed the predecessor. The second one said, "Do a reorganization and replace anyone you can replace." And the third one said, write three envelopes. I, of course, think it is too early to write envelopes and I deeply respect Croatian voters who gave voice to the current government, but they certainly did not give a vote to listen to excuses and alibis for obvious failures already wanted Croatia to be guided in a way to ensure the general conditions for better standards of citizens and faster development of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8207	Thank you, dear colleague. It's time for the Honorable fellow Shima Swarf. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8208	Thank you very much. Here, tonight we've heard all that enough for a few sessions not just this one tonight. But I'm going to try to remind you of some of the issues that are related to this topic, but in this whole debate, there's probably still one party missing, I think, a few years ago, came into elections here somewhere from the north and told the citizens that it would be best if we organised the state without taxes. I say that in the introduction because on the one hand we pour crocodile tears which will be less than 2, or 7 or 3 billion in the state budget depending on what method or how we calculate it, and on the other hand we say, so there's no problem dividing it by the criteria how it goes. For the introduction, we should remind ourselves that we heard all of this in the first and second readings, the VAT cuts from 22% to 20%, and that tonight they repeat, in fact, the same stories and method of sampling and examples on diapers, and tonight nobody actually remembered that there are about a million pensioners and other social categories in this country. Therefore, it is not just a state policy. And that should be said for reasons to be very briefly commented, I won't go in, try to avoid all these discussions that have been so far, which have actually been repeated and proven several times. Both systems offer similar solutions, but this system that the SDP is trying to try and adopt is, of course, actually creating a final tax with the aim of removing the existing VAT, that is, the consequence of its regressive policy that it implements. That means that they pay less, possibly less, taxes because this one is so unfair. However, by introducing an inter-step, i.e. differentiated rates, it is also equally, at least equally unsocial or equally unfair because those rates are also used by everyone in the country. Which will not only be used by socially privileged categories, so of course it could be said. So our proposal is a correction from 22 to 20 is an attempt to cut still taxes in the state, and talk about the functions of money and what happens in spiraling their movements in the process of production and traffic, I think it's too high to point out here tonight. But if such a corrected rate would continue to be applied with social policy and tax policy. Therefore, the order should and should be to tax those incomes that have more and through social policy, unlike this differentiated rate, to help those poor who we all cry over tonight in an indirect manner, directly, and those who have to pay this higher rate that they have. Therefore, each one draws his own arguments about how they are responsible for such a policy. As for the complexity of controls and others, we said, the advantages of one and the other shortcomings, the assessment also completely doesn't matter if it's 3.1 billion or 3 or 3 or 200 or 2 or 700, but it's going around here somewhere, and there are still multiple effects of introducing a complete system of surveillance and everything that follows it, organisational technical implementation and everything else that's going on. We have heard the stories of Europe, but it can be looked back critically, of course it can also be observed and so on. However, just as VATs and differentiated rates are viewed for themselves as well as before application only to diapers or hawks, then the story looks completely different. However, the picture is three-dimensional. If such differentiated rates are not applied through this application and other instruments will remain or almost the same as we have today. If at a single rate of 20% and applied other tax policy instruments, of course, we'll get a completely different picture. Therefore, I think simply in the end that no matter how many arguments there are here, as much as we can draw arguments for and against the same, and I think that this rate proposed by the single government, that it would finally have to withdraw, as it is applied from January 1st next year, that it would have to withdraw a few other measures that go towards increasing that or making up for that loss in the budget. I'm thinking primarily of excise duties that can be affected. And no one tonight, although Croatia was poored, mentioned the possible extra profit that is still being made in Croatia. Therefore, there are other ways to make up for it and how socially sensitive groups can also be helped, and that these unique rates can tax those who have, so let's not cry, let's not cry over them because these examples of cars are completely non-transparent and probably very limited. And I still have to say in the end, and that's the point of the debate, which of course this has taken over completely political, not economic connotations all night long. I'd be happier if I hadn't waited for this debate tonight, so I could spend the SDPs in four years of that policy. He still didn't spend it and yet we came here tonight to discuss it, which doesn't mean that he shouldn't and in the next time or no solution is perfect so he shouldn't be promoted. But right now that we've tried that rate of consciousness at a 20% unique rate and of course there's a counter argument that can't be held and I simply think this is an attempt to make up for a lost social position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8209	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8210	Excuse me, Mr. President, it was a replica. Namely, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8211	Oh, I'm sorry. It's a long way off, so you can't see the replica or anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8212	Namely, fellow MP Peronja floor, perhaps a mask of objectivity is trying to discredit and the importance of encouraging individual groups..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8213	Easy, easy. Not Mr. Representative Peronja is the mayor of the Split-Dalmatia County, this is Shime Prtenjaca representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8214	I hope so. It's just a simple lapus that my colleague, I'm sorry, I'm sure I'll remember exactly now. Namely, a respected colleague under the mask of objectivity discredits the importance of incentives through the tax policy that we are trying to consolidate through the offer of differentiated rates. Of course, it's important for us in the SDP, it's not important for us how daily measures on the wallet will feel family, especially families with children, and even pensioners you mention, because they run a differentiated rate of 12% and, accordingly, 10% reduction in food products that even pensioners use. These life-important things, a fellow agent calls stories. I can understand that he doesn't personally consider them important, that's his business. But our fellow citizens are very important, especially those with lower incomes. Also before the end of the discussion, a colleague says there is a way to help social categories. So I'd beg, if there's any way to do at least what the SDP did, which is to at least suggest one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8215	Replicate response, respected representative of the Arthrial Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8216	One more apology. I hope my colleague remembers me. And so far I repeat once again for four years you could really introduce all the necessary instruments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8217	Dear Representative Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8218	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax proposed by the SDP Club and another proposal proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The SDP considers that a reduction in value added tax from 22% to 20% under-thinking and responsible HDZ promise in the pre-election campaign, while forgetting that it had just announced a VAT reduction from 22% to 17% for the 3 January 2000 elections. Their promises that have not been carried out and proposed are two things that are evident. Number one, the VAT needs to be reduced. and below two, to propose a reduction in the overall rate by as many as 5% points. However, by coming to power, the SDP failed to deliver on a promise to Croatian citizens throughout its term of office. This morning we heard from Mr. Cacic a debate that the Croatian government does not understand. Well, here I'd say, we're witnesses here when they come to visit us students, students and others, I think the opposition's making them completely confused, because the opposition isn't fighting for tax cuts, just because they didn't spend that 5% themselves, which they promised the people. Now we can hear earlier thinking that the new government is going to spend one and a half billion on various social contributions, and in reality, that's what the Social Democratic Party is supposed to be up for. But it's not. Because instead, she struggled to take away the rights of mothers to maternity care, children's allowances, students of scholarships and defenders of their rights. Well, I think the Social Democracy has left just a name, and this god-awful concern that we're hearing 16 times about shoes, I think it looks ridiculous after that. The LIBRE gentlemen said that as liberals we should advocate here for tax cuts. In the end, however, they said they would not support such a proposal. And probably all the liberal parties would have given them up after today. The HSS gentlemen who were an integral part of the coalition in power have always proposed something, negotiated, but nothing with their coalition partners has been seriously agreed or implemented. Well, I don't think it's just that you as a coalition were a bad government, but it's a far bigger problem that you and the bad opposition. Because you're trying to be against something you suggested yourself four years ago, not two, but five percent. Now this new draft law amending and supplementing the VAT law, which is proposed by the SDP to introduce a 12% rate for agriculture and tourism, on the grounds that we are approaching such a tax policy and harmonising legislation with solutions in the European Union countries at the very least raises an open issue. Why didn't the SDP go through and apply it when he was in power, if that's so good? The SDPs are trying to justify the introduction of an inter-step for tourism that will, in particular and directly, stimulate export policy, and tourists will buy more, cheaper goods, but it simply does not stand, because it is obvious that we are not too expensive tourists, but that tourism should invest much more in infrastructure, conditions of accommodation, service levels and enriching other content that we do not have so far. The value added tax was introduced on 1 January 98 and with a single rate of 22%, taking into account the principle of efficiency. After almost two years of a number of pressures from stakeholders, a zero rate is introduced for certain products, e.g. bread, milk, books and certain medicines. Since mid-2000, a list of products and services that are taxed with a zero rate such as books on CDs, showing films, delivery services of independent artists' goods has been expanded. We need to make sure that lower VAT rates mean less revenue for the state budget. In 2002, around 38% of tax revenues were paid into the state budget only with the basis of VAT. The reduction of VAT for certain products alone would further reduce tax revenues and significantly increase administration. It is certain that VAT rates in Croatia of 20% to be applied as of 1 January 2005 are absolutely acceptable and compared with the European Union countries where the overall rate is moving in Denmark and Sweden 25%, in Finland 22%, Belgium and Ireland 21%, Italy and Austria 20%, Germany, Spain 16%. The average rate in EU countries is 19.5%. I am convinced that the unique VAT rate proposed by the Croatian government is a better variant for the following reasons. The reduction of the overall rate is acceptable, it is more acceptable than the introduction of another rate is the application of multiple rates to open doors to corruption and lobbying. The increase in the number of rates increases the administrative costs of tax collection as it requires significantly more officials to define taxable and non-taxable products and to process much more complex tax returns. The lower VAT rates are not a guarantee and lower prices, e.g. for food because prices are formed according to the terms of supply and demand in the free market. The lower VAT rate for certain products is no guarantee of helping poor citizens, e.g. for food because the same lower rate will also help the rich. It is already much more effective to help the poor directly, directly from the budget and tax food at the standard VAT rate. The introduction of new tax incentives and benefits undermines the consistency and transparency of the tax system and its stability. The frequent changes have a negative impact on the decision-making of taxpayers. Tax policy must not implement social economic or development policy measures but is its primary objective and purpose as simple and fairer collection of tax revenue to cover existing expenditure for public needs as possible. For these reasons, I do not think that the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the value added tax law proposed by the SDP club should already be adopted by the Government to reduce the general tax rate from 22% to 20%, which will aim at discharging the end-use by reducing the tax burden as well as more effective tax collection and curbing the grey economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8219	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote first. Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8220	So I'm correcting the inaccuracies that the former government has cut children's allowances, it's an incorrect colleague, we haven't reduced children's allowances, but thanks to our policy, we've secured a child's allowance for 150 thousand children more than it was during your government. And as far as maternity benefits are concerned, it is true that they are in one part a reduction, but thanks to that, the unemployed mothers and mothers of crafts were able to receive maternity benefits because for those of us who had social sensitivity, every mother was equally important.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8221	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8222	A colleague asks why you didn't cut the tax you promised, VAT to 17%. That's why a colleague of mine found a decline in social gross product by almost 1% in the year 99. What we found was the business of the Croatian economy of 4.3 billion kuna losses. What state-owned companies did with a billion kuna losses. As investments in state-owned companies were only 2 billion kunas. As subsidies in agriculture were below a billion kuna, the wages were only 3 thousand kuna, which amounted to 1300 kuna. Economic policy should be defined on the basis of which economic growth will be achieved. Therefore, the reduction of contributions in order to change the labour price and thus stimulate employment went on first. The rate of profit tax was reduced from 35 to 20%, income tax relief increased, etc., etc., these were the reasons why we couldn't do it at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8223	The reply to the replica is Mr. Sočković's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can only say for a little while that what the lady was saying is possible and only with the reduction of the rights that we had but which I've already listed, so I wouldn't want to repeat.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8225	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8226	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I would like to correct my colleague Sockovic's misstatement. And the claim that the SDP is not fighting, according to a counterpart for VAT reduction. We spend all day in favour of reducing VAT with a differentiated rate for supplies, children's supplies, agriculture, nutrition, tourism and children's food. Then the claim that the SDP does not advocate a VAT reduction really does not stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8227	Dear Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8228	Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow advocates, a few words on the final draft law amending and supplementing the law on value added tax proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Law lowers the general tax rate by 2% in order to dissipate end-use and encourage entrepreneurship. One part of the tax exemption is also introduced for the recall of the exports made, for imports of certain goods donated to humanitarian and health organisations, imports of certain goods paid from foreign donations received. Another issue has also been settled and this concerns the exclusion of the exemption, from these releases of non-profit organisations, institutions and associations for the sake of difficult control and prevention of abuse. The issue of application of the provisions of Article 1 of the Law to be applied from 1 January 2004 is also regulated. In my opinion, I have obtained the conditions that this Law is now well regulated and that is why I support the adoption of the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would now also like to take a brief look at the amendment and supplementation of the value added tax law proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club. Proposers suggest expanding the range of products that are taxed at zero rate for children's food, clothing, other products and newspapers. In addition, they suggest introducing a 12% lower rate for agricultural and food and tourism. The introduction of a zero rate is explained by the need to address certain social and pro-analytical issues. In my court, VAT is a tax which taxes the end-user and is in no case suitable for resolving social issues. Zero rate as suggested will hit more, more will please low-income people. We know how our merchants did when we introduced a zero rate for milk and bread. Milk and bread didn't come cheap for a single lip. And that's probably what would happen if we introduced these rates because it's up to them, and it's really up to them to decide how it's going to be done because there's not and there's not going to be any pricing in our country. So far, zero rates for 7 products and two services have been introduced. From, there were no results of what, how, as the legislators were then expected. The introduction of a reduced rate of 12% for agricultural nutrition and tourism services is explained by the need to encourage the development of these activities, reducing the cost of life to stimulate the export of agricultural, food products. This does not indicate that in 2001 a 0% rate was introduced for foreign tourist services paid by foreign officials. However, the 12% inter-step does not cover a re-promatter that is very important and important for agricultural production, not to mention agricultural, agricultural machinery procurement without which there is no agricultural production today in modern conditions and on serious agricultural areas. By introducing these rates at an existing zero rate and 25% rate, 22% of the rate increases to three, making it difficult to collect value added tax. According to the Ministry of Finance's assessment, the application of this bill would lead to a reduction in State budget revenues of $3.1 billion, which is impossible to compensate from real sources, although it is estimated by the Ministry to introduce a rate of 2%, a general rate of 2% lower, as well as a decrease in income but significantly lower. Therefore, I believe that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on value added tax proposed by the SDP Club should not be accepted and supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8229	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues for this debate have eight other deputies. I have received the wishes of some MPs and today we end only with this VAT point and tomorrow we continue this, the same united debate over these two value added tax laws, how? Yeah, yeah, yeah, income and income, yeah, income, so then this is local self-government funding still in order, not to work very long tomorrow for Friday. That somewhere until 3 o'clock this,... Dear Representative Slavko Linic. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8230	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I personally believe that neither 2004 nor 2005 are the years when the existing Value Added Tax Act should be touched. I estimate that the deficits that are still very high in the State budget oblige the creators of the draft budgetary policy to still try to reduce spending and only then change something in tax policy. It is my personal thinking and then I would return to today's frequent objections that the SDP in 2000 spoke in the elections on VAT reduction and had not spent that policy for 4 years. And yes, I was one of the ones I thought in the 2000 election that should reduce VAT. In four years, I've advocated with other members of the government for different incentives to the economy, and the truth is, that's why we've suffered criticism, that we haven't made election promises, but we've done something else. And I would just like to simply tell the current tax policy promoters to try to see if some other means motivate development, invest in the Croatian economy, and not turn to the execution of one wrong, so far wrong electoral promotions. What do you say these changes are possible? So maybe it's best to remind you what it's done? Although I remember one of the most important points was the reduction of contributions, 2 times 2% and pension and health care, and we all talk, we even admired the Competitiveness Council when he said overwork. And it's not the net salary problem, it's the contribution problem. So we can contribute to making more competitive work, some more money for entrepreneurs, and probably for the increase in wages. That's what must have more effects. That's what's given the effect in four years. Well, it's not just that. A change in profit tax. So the reliefs used by entrepreneurs to reduce their tax base and on several occasions raised untaxable value. These are all tax policies that can give effect. And in the end, surely in the battle for a more efficient tax administration, a number of tax reliefs for citizens to report their taxes, to fight for tax returns and to get back taxes. It's been done for four years. That's why it gave up VAT. Yeah. Critics, you haven't made an election promise, but the results of the four-year work, so I'll just say the most basic data. Croatian economy 99. 4.3 billion more minus the plus. Bigger minus the plus. Last year about 11 billion plus. You created a domestic accumulation, the possibility of forming that pto is the most valuable kuna for investment. The Croatian economy in energy, infrastructure, transport where the government is responsible for most of the losses of billions larger than positive ones. And in 2002. Two and a half billion positive results. And are we going to talk about making nearly 19 billion kunas available last year in these trading companies for investment. For what many will not admit, however, there was an investment market in Croatia. An investment offer. Not just spending. And of course that's all the reason that indices have changed from negative GDPs, from completely negative trends in industry and the processing industry to positive trends. This also enabled pension growth and wage growth. So do you mean other politicians can have positive results? We can and that's what we need to talk about further. Because it's a battle for investment and development. And it is evident that changes in value added tax will not allow that development. And that's what we need to talk about. A permanent loss of 3 billion kuna in the budget. Secret loss. Because we need kunas in our budget. If the Ministry of Finance will be more effective in tax evasion, it still helps. The money's missing and there are still deficits in that direct budget over 2.3% still. So make it a successful finance ministry to collect taxes. But these 3 billion needs both science and development. These are the effects that gave up and changed politics. We've been successful at that interpretation, we haven't, but obviously these data are very different. And now something personal. As you can see, I've been waiting for my five minutes to try to speak to Slavko Linic personally. Not for this speaker on behalf of the promoter. Three times behind this pay phone on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Shucker throws it. That's what we're different about as politicians. Which his first file is trying to silence me by saying that on behalf of the coalition he wasn't hiding the crime. It's a message to me about Ina. And what I will say about Ina during the past year, Slavko Linic, as chairman of the Supervisory Board, brings international audits, determines the factual state. All the documents are with a state's attorney who needs to be dealt with criminally. It's something to do. Slavko Linic as chairman of the Supervisory Board at the session is also being replaced by a member of the administration who has not run the procurement business... The question remains whether the President of the Administration should be replaced. It's a matter of politics. Because I'm not saying he's responsible for the bad and the losses that came into the oil. But he's certainly responsible for not doing enough of that work as a management. That's what Minister Shuker's pay phone is using to think that these arguments will help him to abandon our arguments. He's throwing Victor Lenac away. That there's no doubt it's true. In Viktor Lenca, trying to save the company. Because his founders were international banks, domestic banks, minority shareholders. Yeah, that's right, obviously misjudged. Yeah, he jumped the budget. Who's going to take care of the Minister of Finance. No doubt. But those are government decisions. I'm sure it's enough and too much money put in Lenac to try and save the project. It didn't work. Yeah, maybe the wrong government decisions. But it's a throw-off. The railroad we're talking about. The railway law passed last year solved the way the railroad was financed. Reduce revenue from excise duties in the budget in one part to increase new excise duties and osgiura to the railways of revenues. Who changed the law. Who changed it in the last session for me. Why is there no such revenue, if there were these revenues, would there be a payment from the budget? There wouldn't be a budget payment. If the minister knew that, he did. But he was on behalf of the government too, proposing that the railways' income be abolished. That was laid down by the railroad law last year. According to the atom once we have to understand behind every word should be an argument, intimidation will not significantly help. It won't help. And I'm sure we'll be able to tell the difference between who the politician is. And who's using the pay phone?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8231	Thank you. We've got one show. The violation of Mrs. Maria Byte's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A fellow MP injured Article 214 because in much of his debate, he ended up asking who was a politician and did not stick to the subject he was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8233	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8234	Mr. President, there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8235	I'm deliberately asking all MPs just for a moment to see as a fog which, as a matter of fact, is what it's all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8236	I'm sorry, but there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so let me just say it. Mr Linic has injured Rules of Procedure Article 210(1). In addition, Article 214(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: He was talking about topics he wasn't talking about, about Ina. And he was talking about a report from the former government. We're not interested in the Ina case in this particular case, and we're not interested in how the former government did, either. At least when it comes to this subject right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8237	Then we'll go to the corrections. Honorable representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8238	Thank you, Mr. President, my colleague Slavko Linic has already twice apostrified Minister Shuker's statement that it will increase the efficiency of the tax administration. I wish that were true, but it's incorrect. Efficientity could increase if, for example, as in the Istrian County two years ago, the principle of tax administration between several candidates was chosen as a non-partisan candidate. Who these days last week without an education changed. And the decree set up a new and accidental but truly accidental president of the city board for the city of Vodnjan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8239	There's nothing in life by chance. But I don't know if you were correcting your colleague, Linic. And you were correcting your colleague Linic. Dear Representative Željko Nenadić corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8240	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Linic said Minister Schuker throws. That's an incorrect quote. Minister Shuker spoke from the pay phone about exactly what he needed. And secondly, when it comes to Victor Lenac, it is an incorrect assumption that the government of the Republic of Croatia is wrong. We all know who's behind Victor Lance, and it's hiding personal responsibilities behind the government's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8241	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8242	Actually, I wanted to replicate Mr. Linic. And it's wrong? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8243	What's the word for those who see the wrong color? Daltonists, yes. Then the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8244	I'd like to replicate Mr. Linic. We listened to his arguments and excuses today, why they failed to fulfill the election promise. We've heard about liquidity, about borrowing, so it's a valid opinion that SDP's Social Democratic parties are easily borrowing, they simply can't control consumption, and they're very hard and very bad at creating. In fact, this people recognized it, stopped them, and perhaps in this way gave this country a chance to get out of the crisis that these mind experts have brought us to today who talk so much and know so much about differentiated and other rates. And from there I repeat once again for the public, allow this government when it executes election promises to give this people a chance to get out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8245	Reply to the replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8246	The SDP carried the burden of power for four years. There are results that will be very difficult to reach a new government, but they have a four-year chance and I wish them success in it. I really wish them success because I will live better then, and so will many Croatian citizens. My job as a SDP, and the entire SDP will be to try to be different in the proposals. You don't have to listen, but that's what we as politicians want to say. We therefore want to fight for a chance to prove once again that we are better than HDZ. If we succeed, the voters will say in the new elections. And as long as it's here, a part of us will talk. As far as the profession is concerned, I'm used to a lot of people insulting me, humiliating me, but you have to understand, it's always important that you listen to me a few times. And listen. Four years of experience in the government, a huge experience in finance says that I'm not a random man who I am constantly in executive power, but if you don't want to listen to me, it's really sorry. I'm really sorry. But maybe someone else will.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8247	Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8248	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Representative, if you've understood what I've said in public what you've said on Croatian television that it's a threat and a throwaway, I apologize. But allow as you have the right to speak, that I too have the right to speak. So it's not a threat to me at all, but as an opposition representative, I've heard all sorts of words from that bench, and I wouldn't want to do it here again. But I'd like to look back on some things. Mr. Representative, you were the chairman of the Supervisory Board of Ina, under the circumstances I was recently appointed to this post. You and I had a conversation a dozen days ago, and you came here on one subject, and I'm not going to convince you because it was a conversation between the two of us. It was logical that as a man who was in a particular place, and if we say that we both work first and foremost for the benefit of this country, and I think that's my and your primary goal and job, I never said that you didn't do it. It was logical for me as your successor to at least give me those documents that you were talking about delivering them to me so I could see some things. So much for Ina. So as far as I'm concerned, don't mind my words and correctness again, but I'm saying a threat in no way. I only repeated because I was horrified when I heard such a statement on Croatian television and interestingly on that statement nobody in the Croatian public even reacted. ... I'll do it again, what you said. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, Victor Lenac... Mr. Representative, I listened politely while you were saying... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8249	Please, I ask you nicely and moderately and impeccably to continue the debate but within the borders of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll try to hold on to that. So Victor Lenac definitely shows one failure of one policy today. With "May 3rd" shipyard with tradition and everything to create a new shipyard from a remonting office is at least odd and ruin "May 3rd", but this will be paid by Croatian taxpayers. I should've added that maybe the River Bank, but good. We must not object to that either, and I have listened to the sins of my party colleagues from previous years as a parliamentary representative for four years. I had to listen to it and no one told you it was a threat, you had the right to say it. I can't say it today because you feel threatened and that someone, no one, is threatening you, Mr. Linic. HBOR, you spoke publicly at a session where the former Prime Minister and current Prime Minister were primarily present that you did not know about HBOR's loan. That's what you and President Racan said in public. That it's spent from a budget beyond your knowledge a billion and 600 million. You admit that publicly, I repeat in public in front of eight people. I said that today, interestingly enough, that you haven't repeated it over and over again. So I repeat, the money that is not recorded in the budget is spent, and that is what I cannot agree with at all. And that's what's causing this government's problems today, so whether you admit it or not. HH, yes, Mr. Linic, last year, the government spent a billion and 500 million to make this government pay. Well, you, then you want to take over Racan's billion and 500 kuna credits, sign that you'll pay it back so this government doesn't have to pay back if you didn't do it. The second thing, that famous model of your funding for taking budget money and giving someone else, is an ancient model of funding that no one else has anymore. It's a parafiscal policy and it's pushing money out of the budget out of control and that's why it's happening in HAC what's going on and that things have been going on for control. Why does this Parliament make a financial plan if someone can outrun it by 30, 40 percent? Then why the debate? Why the debate on all this? Let's spend the money the way anybody wants. Well, for such public finances, I can't be sure to stand up for it. After all, you gave it right. And now for the great successes of last government. The outer spirit of 9.7 billion states, today 24.5 billion. Let's take that 2 or 3 billion is a course of dollars. The effects of this external trade deficit twice as high as it was, imports twice as much as it was, and exports may be higher by 100 or 200 million dollars. It's the result of the borrowing. Number of employees, unemployed, identical to 2000. So today you have 318 thousand unemployed. Public debt, therefore, is released if we are already to say that the external debt of trade, the debt of companies and banks and if part of the external debt of the bank is the public debt of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, from the budget. Public debt with guarantees 46 billion plus 9 billion guarantees, so somewhere around 54 billion. Today it's 104 billion. I repeat, the external trade deficit is what unemployment is, as is the amount of unpaid liabilities from the budget that remain, primarily for the employees and public debt by 50 billion. The biggest economic growth in the last four years at the time the balance of payments deficit was the biggest. Very interesting how these indicators appear. When I talk about the 99th year, you have the right, negative growth at the cumulative level of the year, however, positive economic growth in the fourth quarter, and you unfortunately have negative growth in the 3rd and 4th quarter. So much for grand successes. So, to commit to unconsciousness, to spend money on whom it pleases, and then to say, we did it, and that's what we did. If we had more than 50 or 60% of our exports today than we had in the year 96, then I could say that some result has been achieved. The export of war 95th and 6th was $4 billion and $100 million. He's 6 billion today, so if we bring him down to some kind of exchange rate, that's 4 billion 704 billion 800. Imports in 98, so we're not talking about 99, 7.7 billion dollars. Today's imports are $17.7 billion. The VAT charge at the border is 75%. So, what are we up to? We're talking about tourism, shipbuilding as export branches? Today, shipbuilding according to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is installing 80% of foreign components in one ship. How many imported food and other needs at sea are sold to foreign tourists? So these are indicators that are like that. These are the results of the budget. We can talk whatever we want, but the results in the budget, therefore, tax collection shows how some policy is being run. As for the profit tax and this and that, by abolishing the protection interest, you've raised the profit tax rate. The average profit tax rate with protection interest in Croatia was 11%, and today it is for those who extract dividends from companies 32%. And that's why the difference between income and expenditure is 99 and 2002 because you no longer have a reduction in the tax base for protection interest. And the protection interest certainly benefits those for whom we all swear that they need to be encouraged, and that is what they are working intensively, so those who work in production. So everyone has their own way of truth, but the right and freedom of speech cannot be taken away from anyone. About you disqualifying who's a politician, Mr. Linic, that's your personal right. I will never take myself to talk about you in one way or another. It's a personal matter, I'm not going to say, but I'm saying, "Viktor Lenac," you said what you said at the press conference for INA. I've done it three times here today. And, well, then I didn't hear well, but I'm saying, it would be logical and normal that as former chairman of the Supervisory Board, since we're former colleagues, you from the former government, that you're those indicators that you had, that you're also undermining the new government. Just as it would be logical and correct for me to hand over the authorities, if the ministers had left their fellow heirs, let's say, so my colleague Church could leave me to have 230 million plus 180, that there were 410 million kunas of issued bonds that entered the state budget, and unsettled by the HAC and a number of other things. Then I'd be talking about, then you probably wouldn't be here discussing it so much, if it was written. So, so much for correctness. But I'm saying, I repeat, at the end of my mind it wasn't a threat to me, but obviously you don't like the arguments, but I'm saying, arguments and figures are the best indicator, and you can't deny that the Croatian state today has a public debt far, far greater. And you can't deny that under the conditions that you left behind, that the state can no longer be in debt, that the deficit and liquidity have nothing to do with each other. The way you've been doing, the way you've been doing it, the way you've been doing it, the way you've been doing it, the way you've been doing it, the way you've been doing it, the way you've been doing it, the way you've been doing it, the way you've been doing it, the way you've been doing it, the way you've been doing it, the way you've been But under the conditions like this, this government certainly has something to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8251	Before Mr. Slavko Linic... Takes the floor as a proposer, has a correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Antun Peru. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8252	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, just for the sake of the truth and for the accuracy of the data, with no evil intention whatsoever. You said 80% of the side of the component was built into the ship. The other day, Prime Minister Sanader was on Radio Zagreb "How Government Government" and on the other hand he was the director of "Third May" Iron Rukavin, I think both of the same party provinces and the same question the prime minister asked Mr. Iron and he made arguments, figures, etc. prove that 60% of the domestic component is being built into the ship. And now, I find this quote of yours, but without any ill intentions, it's incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8253	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Slavko Linic, on behalf of the legislator of this second bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8254	Mr. Chairman. The subject of the INA, the railroad didn't start me, began Minister Shuker. Minister Shuker's statement was, I wouldn't be doing any coalition hiding crime. I never said that, but it's been repeated three times today by Minister Shuker. And I ask why he says what no one said. Because what I said, for the sake of the coalition, I didn't replace Dragicevic. I'm sorry, replacing the president of the board and hiding the crime, so that's a big difference. I made it very clear that international audits have been made, that they have also been delivered to law enforcement authorities, and also in my final report, everything is clearly written. And he noted that we even replaced a board member without judging him, but appreciateing that he didn't do enough to prevent illegalities. Excuse me, what's the president's shift to a coalition deal with crime? But you see, tossing from this phone booth about hiding crime has been said three times. It's not said, you haven't replaced the President of the Board. Hiding crime. Well, I'm sorry, if the paperwork is in the state's attorney's office, if the audits have shown any damage, if the internal audit by order of the supervisory board has defined the damage, then all the documents are present. Minister Shuker was supposed to point out that he promised to invite me to talk about the INA. I'm waiting for a call. But there's something else. All the documents are in the INA. I expect he'll find the time I've been dealing with all the trouble of getting him through. All documents and international audits and internal surveillance and evaluations and decisions of the Supervisory Board would at least be correct to read something before being thrown. Here, so much so that we try to take the seriousness once, really serious. And if it's necessary, I'll show you the quotes of your speech that you've been throwing away crime. And whether or not we're going to change the president of the administration is a matter of politics, a relationship of the coalition, which I'm not very interested in during. I don't care about that very much. But we're talking about crime. So I expect the state's attorney's office to do its part, and as far as the former supervisory board is concerned, he's changed a member of the board that deals with it, and now you know, he's talking about the railroad. The debts have to be paid, they have to be paid because last time we changed the law. Did the former government bring budget expenditure? No, I don't. It's not. During this year, we have now decided that the railway will run out of revenue to serve development. That's what we decided. Why? This government believes it will not deal with such funding. And her right. But he can't accuse the former government of missing funds. He can't. Because you'll allow this House to decide that there is no cost, tax revenue that should have been used for railway projects. Which was passed under the Law of Railways. The Law on Railways also included a development strategy. These were the documents of the former assemblies. The former Parliament. They've been brought in. You know, it seems to me there was a consensus about the project and the Parliament. It was a consensus. So now the philosophy of funding is changing. I don't mind. The right of this government to define it that way. But you can't accuse the former government of being unprotected. You can't. And that's something we need to understand. I guess we're pretty clear why there's no money in the railroad. For changing the law on railways. And passed by consensus along with strategy, in the last year. It's been brought in. We don't take away the right to change that for anyone. Then we just need to know where the problems are. That's what we warned you about. And that's why I want to make it very clear about that part. And yes, it is true, at the working agreement of two prime ministers, which Minister Schucker has been so called upon, that it is said that all costs incurred in the last two years at an accelerated recovery have not been properly implemented through the budget, and that part of us is not kept secret, it has not been properly implemented. But it is also very clear from Minister Shuker that he accepts that the work can be done, and the payment can be made in the next year and that the issue is..., even before the press he has declared that there is no problem. But the main problem is how to justify a small budget, a little pre-election promises, and then we go back to the dues again. We need to know that highways if they open 15.6 is a question of the dynamics of doing business. The question of paying and the way to negotiate is what everyone has the right to negotiate. And none of us have disputed, that part of the contract is paying in this year. But it has nothing to do with inequity, because it's less covered by loans, it has to do with the deficit problem, the problem of further investment, and it has no impact on indifference. There isn't. But if we're going to open expert discussions here between us who are doing a little more financial work, I don't know where that's leading us. I really don't know. I can accept that Minister Schuker says he's more handsome in 99, that he's proud of the results in 99, and that he's having a hard time in 2003. His right not to recognise the figures, not to accept the assessments and experts of the international ones, because these international experts and statesmen praise that Croatia did and Prime Minister Sanader, he boasts. But Minister Shuker doesn't admit it to the Croatian public, no. The changes, the reforms, the results, the less complete macroeconomic, the more Mr. Shucker admits. He thought it was better, it was better when we didn't pay for stolen savings, so they were here every day. It was better when at Mark’s square 150 thousand people who did not get paid came strike, then there was a better situation. Well, the Minister's right to think so. I would wish him the situation, I would really wish him 150 thousand in Croatia did not get paid and that he would care for their salary. That's what you'd want him to do. Croatia doesn't, to him. Why? Because it's hard for him now, I understand him, but he'd like to get him back to 99, so he can see what it means to settle outstanding debts, stolen banks. And something else, Minister Shuker, something else, Minister Shuker. I'd still like to say something. As far as the Bank of Rijeka is concerned, you promised to tell us how much the Croatian State gave to the Bank of Rijeka. That's the difference between us. During the banking crisis when HDZ was, there was a problem with the enormous money they gave to rehabilitate banks. It will never be charged in Croatia. The Rijeka Bank has not been rescheduled by a single kuna of taxpayers. I expect it to be the minister, because he has promised one of your parliamentary questions and a foregleam. So let's take down this story once, which the Croatian citizen gave to the collapse of the Rijeka Bank. That's what I'd like.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8255	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8256	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Linic, again injured Article 214 because in one large part of his speech he did not hold the topic, and on the wishes of Mr. Minister Šuker, I think that not only are the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, but they are also inappropriate for this Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8257	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8258	Mr. Vice President, it is really hard to correct everything Mr. Slavko Linic said incorrectly. But let me just look back at something that seems important to me. It is about stopping, allegedly stopped projects around the Croatian Railways, and how no debt or dubiosis of the former government has affected it. In fact, it's quite true and true that these 6.5 billion plus that we could hear today another 2 billion coming out of the... collective agreement, they're very much burdening the budget, this year's budget, and they're very much reflecting on development projects. And what is crucial is that these 6.5 billion did not have the necessary decision of the Croatian Parliament. Thus, past the decision, that money was spent past the Croatian Parliament's will. No one says that money may not have been spent on some of the things that need to be done, no one would say. But that should have been said to this Parliament, and it should have been kept in mind that certain financial limits were not breached. So you know exactly what order of things is. It is known that a budget is being made in the Croatian Parliament and that the Government cannot pass by decisions that will affect its implementation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8259	Thank you very much. Now he has the word Mr. Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8260	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. First of all, on behalf of the HSP Club, I must express my dissatisfaction with today's debate, because we are at least sticking to the subject. And I don't think Croatian citizens are interested at this point in what happened in '99 in 2002, 2003, are interested in living better, to know that the rule of law and all other things works. And these topics discussed today between the SDP and HDZ, keep a round table and discuss it there. If there was a crime, Mr. Shucker, it is your obligation to submit it under the Penal Code. So let's wait for what the state's attorney says. And let us take a job for what we were chosen for in this Croatian Parliament and everything else. We expected that today the most debate will be about when Croatia will finally get a tax system that will not be intended to fill the state budget, for the sake of the state budget, that we know whether we will have a development tax system or we will have the social tax system but not as radical as we have at this time. I must also say in all of this that I am pleased and most often repeated words by Minister Shucker lately, and I have heard this today and in the halls and heard further, namely, his words say there is no money, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, there is no money. And we rightists support it because we finally got a cheap minister. It means he'll behave properly towards the state budget. But with that support, it means that you care about taxpayers' money, Mr. Minister, we expect you no longer to talk about how no excise fees have been charged, that there is a problem in the tobacco industry regarding the revenues of the state budget, related to flour. We expect you to say, here, the instruments of the team, the team and the team, that it will no longer happen that the revenues of the excise duty budget related to the oil derivatives will be reduced. That's what we expect from you now. So on this part you commit yourself, that is what the Croatian people expect. We are in the past debate when there was first reading how and in what way it exists and therefore I would ask that in future about all these and such important topics for the Croatian people we talk about moving forward, to draw the line if something was wrong, if a criminal act was done and committed, let it be done in that part of what Mr Linic said. But let's get back to the real theme team. Therefore, it is also our contribution to this debate and so we ask that we also discuss such important topics in the future because taxpayers, all of what we talked about today, are paid by taxpayers, all of which are paid by our voters. So, let's do something to make it an important step to bring order into the country, to get the revenues that belong to it, to prevent this many areas of the grey economy and we have already located them and to go to enable Croatia's economic development, to employ people, to solve the position of defenders and all other important things that we all know very well about the situation in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8261	I thank you, she now has the word of Mrs. Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8262	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I think it is good that the government has decided to reduce VAT from 22% to 20% not only because of the citizens' pre-election promise, which confirms its credibility but because the VAT reduction law will have consequences for redundancies in the economy and will reflect positively on the macro-economics. I believe that from the first step is in a series of measures that need to be taken to combat the grey economy that is very much present in Croatia and that we meet daily. I particularly welcome the legislative measure which can be prohibited from carrying out the activity if the taxable person does not charge or does not pay VAT in contrast to the provisions which allowed it so far, assuming that both conditions are met, i.e. in the case where the taxpayer did not account and did not pay VAT. In practice, there have been many cases where the taxpayer accounted for and did not pay VAT, thereby making it impossible to charge the state budget. I believe that this measure will quickly compensate for the lack of funds in the state budget by reducing the rate of 2%. It is doubtful whether reducing or bringing VAT to zero means guessing people with low incomes. In fact, citizens with higher incomes using a zero VAT rate do not contribute to the state budget as well as others. It would be better for low-income customers, other measures to receive tactical compensation so that income taxation is gradually increased through the budget and directs unemployed and socially vulnerable categories of the population through the budget. It can be helped by direct interventions or free textbooks for children or equipment for newborns or the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8263	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8264	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. Among other things, today we have been discussing here all day and at the end of the debate today or when we are going to vote we should also determine the SDP proposal to introduce a zero VAT rate for children's clothes and shoes, children's food, hygiene supplies, and help raise and educate children. That's how this is going on today's debate all day. When he heard the announcement on the radio in the morning of what we are going to talk about here today and do some uninformed listener, it would be perfectly clear to him and perfectly normal that all parties will support this SDP proposal is a very concrete, very clear, understandable proposal that can significantly facilitate the situation of families with small children, especially families with more children, and in this sense it is a measure that strengthens the most intelligent policy. Of course, an uninformed listener could conclude that because not so long ago in the last session of the Croatian Parliament, everyone pointed out a devastating demographic picture and all, truth some and louder, some stood a little quieter for demographic restoration. One of the louder ones on the issue was the HDZ, which probably to the surprise of the same uninformed listener, rejects the SDP proposal. Of course, this attitude of the HDZ can be surprising only by an uninformed listener because we all have more and more addressed constantly warn that HDZ insists on showing reservations according to concrete proposals that facilitate the everyday life of most of our citizens and, instead, proposes, for example, a three-year maternity leave for mothers with three and more children, which is a good measure. But unfortunately, there are still a small number of families, specifically between 7 and 8 thousand families, and today the problem in Croatia is to encourage the family to have the first and second children. As I said at the last session, we discussed a lot of what measures would be most optimal in population policy. There have been various proposals, but almost everyone who discussed them specifically agreed that certain tax reliefs should be introduced, which citizens would really and daily feel in their wallet. And it is precisely the SDP's proposal not to pay VAT on children's supplies, clothing, shoes, food and, in particular, that the retail prices of these products will be lower by about 18% to 19%. My colleagues explained before me the example of shoes and pants and diapers and children’s food. But I want to point out once again that I don't think families with children care and that the home budget will make a difference if one pack of diapers is paid 100 or 80 kuna. And that's exactly what the SDP wants to introduce to certain categories of product-wide consumption significant reliefs, significant reliefs, not 2%, kuna and half, two kunas that won't mean anything to anyone. I therefore call on respected HDZ colleagues and hope that they are aware that not supporting the SDP proposal actually supports the idea that young mothers and fathers, young families are paying diapers 100 instead of 80 kuna. And not only diapers, not supporting SDP's proposal you are for families, fathers, mothers to pay more expensive baby food, you support expensive children's clothes and shoes, expensive toys, more expensive methods. And that's pure math. A really interesting way of showing concern for the family, caring for children, caring for motherhood, a demographic picture that is, in your words, one of the most important national interests. So once again, I call on all MPs and MPs who were not long ago at the last session of the Assembly to advocate very, very loudly and very loudly for support of families, for support of children, for support of parents. Unfortunately, most of my colleagues in particular are silent about this today to support the SDP proposal in order to really, not only in principle, help families. Otherwise, the same uninformed listener from the beginning of this story will become highly directed. And it will become quite clear to all of us who really cares and wants to do something concrete, and who only talks and finds barren excuses in the administration so that people don't make life easier. I think we've heard too much today about the need to form new registers of cash registers, complicated tax returns and so on. Those who really care will also find solutions to administrative problems. Therefore, once again respected colleagues and colleagues especially you who have raised your hands to pay mothers with three and more children for another two years 1600 kuna birth benefits per month, I hope you will prove your own credibility by raising your hand and for our proposal that each family will receive 1,000 kuna a month more in their wallet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8265	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8266	Mr. Vice President, it's completely incorrect that HDZ supports some kind of hoarding. My colleague Lugarić obviously did not listen well to everything that we at HDZ have suggested, and I am sorry that when she said that the good proposal was about maternity benefits, although the smaller number as she said between 7 and 8 thousand families, it is a pity that she did not raise her hand for such a good proposal because you had the opportunity to help the families with this proposal, and as far as this collection is absolutely incorrect that HDZ is behind some gathering, however, contrary to these measures, it is precisely in favour of keeping the money in the pockets of Croatian families and spending it, that money on something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8267	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Zeljko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8268	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues apparently that young colleague Lugaric did not attend the entire course of this debate, so she had no opportunity to hear it, I had already corrected the incorrect allegations once: the differentiated rate does not solve the demographic renewal. The objective of tax policy, I will read again the definition of textbooks, basic economic textbooks, the objective of tax policy is to make it simpler, more efficient and fairer to collect tax revenue that needs to be covered by existing expenditure for public needs. So it's more effective to solve demographic policy... from the budget, and we'll fill the budget with a unique VAT rate. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8269	Thank you very much. Expressing an opinion, not exactly correcting an incorrect assumption. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8270	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your part, but I want to react to something else. Namely referring to, correcting my alleged colleague, a respected colleague pointed out one of my characteristics of the years with the intention of my personal discredition and I ask him not to insult me on an age basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8271	You're not the only one that, uh, alluded to in years, so let's take that. Correction of Mrs. Maria Byte's incorrect quote. [[You're at least solid.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8272	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President, my colleague Lugaric has presented a number of incorrect allegations, and it is among other things that HDZ supports the gathering, that it is for more expensive children's supplies and that it does not show reserves towards demographic restoration and so on. However, at the first, after the constitutional session of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian government proposed an amendment to the three-year maternity leave, paid for all births in Croatia, have twins, three and more children. The reduction of VAT is also on the trail of what the Croatian Democratic Community has promised, and I am really surprised that in 4 years, all these reliefs from the diaper package, cheap to children's shoes have not come to an understanding, but 3 months of opposition have managed to show what to do in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8273	Also, in my opinion, correcting an opinion, not an incorrect assumption. Ma'am, correcting the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8274	Yes, it's quite incorrect, Mr. Vice President and fellow MPs, that HDZ MPs are just silent. I was very loud the last time, it was perfectly received in public, and today I've already called and it's incorrect that I kept silent when you kept saying that the periphery of events is most important for you and I repeat: it's not child food that you should be crying about all the time, but it's an economy. So get into the essence of things, and then what's the difference between us and you to say that when we share, we in HDZ think that breast milk is the best food, and that happiness is not subject to VAT, and it's free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8275	Thank you. You've also expressed your opinion and I think that these, like this, corrections to the godless, god-awful corrections of the false quote will make us extend this session for another hour. I ask you to state in the first sentence the correcting of an incorrect quote. Please, for everything, of course. The word now has a representative Mr. Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8276	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's a really unusual atmosphere here. We could call this not a VAT debate but a government debate. We seem to have a lot of candidates for ministers here and a lot of experts who are for polemics, and less for debates so that, in fact, these changes of VAT can affect the development of course and the welfare of this country. The first thing I'm trying to say is I'm not in a group of those who don't give the ruling party the right to go to the realization that it's qualified here lightly given the pre-election promise. Of course, the ruling party, and now the government in the coalition thinks it's a good move. However, the move will also be able to be quantified over a relatively short period of time. Furthermore, when I listen to these discussions and these polemics and these corrections about those before, those before and those who are now and those who will come, probably the best decision that we still go with the VAT is less likely to be a good message that the revenues of the state are as small as possible because it is obvious that it spends irrationally or not effectively. But what's most important is what we don't talk about. Since we are going to postpone the VAT tax application, we were likely to be able to discuss first the tax reform that is so necessary for Croatia and then include this change in VAT as part of this. Price reduction effects for these two index points or 1.64% will probably not be too high. This if we refer the appeal to the merchants or we trust their messages that they will accept it by hand or if we expect to sign some form of self-government price reduction agreement is probably an unrealistic expectation. We can observe price effects in some basic sectors. Unremembered are the low prices of cattle so that the heifer costs 10 kuna, however still in the meat shops is we pay 45 kuna as the price was formed for a kilo of 15 kuna. Recently, I was in Germany, so I listen to their businessmen, but also citizens who complain about trade marks in EURO where actually retail prices have been converted from marks to EURO and traders and manufacturers have not seen much of sentimental reasons. What is safe here and unequivocally unequivocally that VAT is a tax paid by the final customer means he is real, he does not favour anyone, however what is certainly a reduction in the rate by 2 index points suits exporters. Here it has been mentioned several times that we charge at the border 70%, with these 2% lower we favour exporters. Those who are going to have worse passages are, in any case, our exporters who use domestic repromies that export perhaps 70, 80, 90% and who use VAT returns, of course, they will not like this measure. What we'd like in HSS. We would like such a shift in tax reform but also in VAT where we will increase Croatian production where we will have an increase in exports rather than stagnation for 10, 15 years. Where we will try to resolve the trading deficit that is increasing to try to reduce Croatia's debt as well. And, of course, try to introduce such rates differentiated where we're going to encourage agricultural production especially in those areas that we're too left with, and that's where I think of the Slovenia that I know too well. Of course, it is not an unimportant question of social or demographics, and we can change that in a good way if we are implementing the reform, i.e. the change of the VAT law. So I'm just curious about how the social gross product is going to grow, I'm interested in how employment is going to grow as part of these changes. How we're going to stimulate production. I appreciate their assessment that this is the most favourable for Croatia in this moment. But I'm also absolutely sure that these effects are measurable and that we'll know how much we've stimulated the growth of production, the growth of social gross employment products, exports and everything I said earlier. Someone here mentioned it during the day of Ireland. Ireland is an interesting country, because according to the number of inhabitants according to the great territory, even according to the diaspora, which is almost entirely identical to Croatia. It's interesting that 15 years ago she had 350 thousand unemployed, and we're very comparable according to these criteria. And it's been mentioned that 3 percent of VAT today had 6 percent of VAT 15 years ago. Of course, they went into reform gradually and think the same way, and there lies the secret of their success, and in the rest of the taxes. So the profit tax is 12%, and the exporters pay only 10% of the profit tax. Thanks to such a policy, they also opened 350 thousand new jobs and encouraged Ino investment, and brought their diaspora back to the country to invest in it. I am very sure that such solutions exist in Croatia, and it is good that Ireland mentioned here, however, did not go in this kind of change, from a pre-election promise to a bill for only a few months. She was simulating models. She found the best solution, and that's why she has the best results in Europe. I'm afraid if we go here and with one mass another proposal I'll qualify one and the other proposal in such a hurry. No analysis, no goals we can achieve. I guess that's wrong so we can do it differently. And I urge all of us to try to think a little differently about not discussing this kind of atmosphere in such a serious matter. The final supporter of the tax reform and, as part of this amendment of the VAT law, we have plenty of time to do so because we are postponing such application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8277	Thank you. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8278	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me say a few words on this subject first and foremost I'll talk about PDV in the field. And I'd like to talk about a certain continuity on the subject. Almost two years ago, I personally proposed and came up with such a proposal from my nestress that I had to go towards the differentiated rate, especially that it should apply to food. agricultural products. Why, it is absolutely necessary, and that is why I stand firm today in that position. We have very clear days of that connection when we talk about agriculture with the gray economy. Unfortunately today we know that barely 8% of our family economies are in the VAT system, we know that it means that this is a great possibility for us to have an increase in this grey economy I'm going to set an example in this part of being a hostage I would say as clearly as possible. If today and the non-VATa economy sells some kind of property and puts it as an example of meat, then we have a case that this is a sale, for example, to an object, a slaughterhouse. Which, due to the lack of obligation in that part that the seller is not in the VAT system, receives a product that is almost cheaper for 22% when he can talk about which part of it is made by the dens himself because of the grey economy. The estimates are very clear that the grey economy is not only in that sector when I talk about meat, but also about other works is extremely large. And we think that because of that high VAT, she's bigger anyway. Examples are very clear that this problem can be contained in secret. When I talked about it, and last time I called for it, it certainly wasn't a mistake in many European countries that there are differentiated rates. I will be free, so I will read at least a few European Union countries and a few future EU members to see and make sure I say how they see it. For example, in Belgium, the standard rate is 21, and food is 6, and 12%. Pesticides, i.e. Imputations are also 6% and 12%. German basic rate 16, food 7 and 16%, Imputi in agriculture 7%. And pesticides and protective means 165 as well as basic PDVEs. If we look at Spain 16 standard rates, 4 and 75 food, Imputates in the field 7%. Our neighbour in this part of Slovenia can be seen as a future member of 19% standard, food 8% impute in a farm 8%. Poland 22% VAT basic, food zero, and 3%, impulses also zero and 3%. I won't list the other countries I believe that maybe a lot of you do, and I believe that in the Ministry of Finance, it's analysed. This speaks for sure d except for the two countries and this is Denmark in that section which has a unique rate of VAT very few European countries have a unique rate, and as so we go to food and in this part have almost 50% in the majority, and many of these countries have what we especially emphasized from the HSS Club and the imputations in agriculture, which is neither a proposal nor in the SDP Club proposal. I'm just saying that in that part of it, in any case, it would help to get rid of that part of the gray economy, which, unfortunately, is extremely big today. But they would also help to highlight what is especially true about the very competitiveness of Croatian agriculture. If we don't improve in this part of it, I'm afraid by staying at a unique rate, we're not going to help, and then we're going to continue with those problems that we've been having. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8279	Thank you. As the last in this debate, Mr. Representative Ljubo Jurcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8280	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I don't have a minister, a respected colleague and a colleague. Today it is rarely mentioned, but we are talking about one instrument of economic policy all the time today, and economic policy as well as any other policy has its objectives. The objectives are derived from an existing situation that we are not satisfied with. For example, if prices rise at a high rate if inflation is high, then the goal is to reduce price increases. If we think the deficits are large, budgetary, foreign trade, then the goal is to reduce the deficit, if the external debt is growth, then the goal is to slow down debt growth. If the growth rate is low, then we want to increase the growth rate, etc. One of the strongest instruments of economic policy that achieve both economic and social objectives is certainly taxes, but as well as another strong instrument of economic policy such as budget, such as interest rate, money mass supply, exchange rate, etc. taxes have their direct and indirect effects, i.e. effects seen at first sight and effects that are not seen at first sight. These invisible, or indirect, are often greater than those visible. In addition, these indirect, or invisible effects may also be undesirable. The amount of undesirable effects can also be greater than the desired effects. The answer to questions about the various effects of the VAT reduction as the government proposes it by two points, we did not get into the government's reasoning with a proposal to amend the VAT law. The question arises as to what goals the Government of the Republic of Croatia is seeking to achieve with this change in VAT. The objectives, macroeconomic objectives which are sought to achieve, are set out in the explanation. The first reduction in price levels, the second improvement in the competitiveness of the economy and the reduction in the grey economy, and the second, as explained in the reasoning. Since there are laws in economic life that help us assess the effects or different effects of... Economic policy, it has been difficult to prove that a reduction in VAT from 22 to 20 will have a more significant impact on the reduction of the grey economy, if at all impacted, is unlikely to be much. [[You don't understand.]] As is known, the grey economy is developing in the areas of high tax rates, as it is popularly said in high tariff goods. The VAT of 22% certainly does not belong in Croatia to such rates as would significantly encourage the gray economy, and thus its reduction from 22% to 20% will not have more positive effects in this area. By the way, the grey economy in particular in the Republic of Croatia will increase by slowing down economic growth, which means that with less production it will be less employment, less wages which are all the conditions that favour the development of the grey economy. Such trends necessarily force entrepreneurs and workers to earn in the gray zone and to save where they can and first start saving perhaps on taxes, or avoid paying taxes. If there's no business in the legal zone, they find out if it's in the gray zone. The grey economy is dwindling at high rates of economic growth, and then inspection services are only taking care of the most vicious ones on the market. As regards competitiveness, VAT is neutral and refers to consumption and taking into account the small complexity of the Croatian economy, it is difficult to prove that this reduction of two points will affect the increased competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Sources of competitiveness or incompetence of the Croatian economy are located completely in another area and should not be sought in the tax system of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the achievement of the main objective of reducing price levels is also negligible and unnecessary in the existing situation. Due to the legality of the tax overturning between producers and consumers, and taking into account the structure of Croatian consumption with high probability, it can be argued, and this could be calculated precisely in the Government, that this tax redistribution will be distributed between traders and consumers cca 50:50%. This means that the benefit for consumers will not be 3 billion but probably a billion and a half kuna. However, these assessments were to be given in an explanation. They could've calculated it precisely, because the methods of these calculations were known, they could've done it maybe at the Ministry of Finance, at the Economic Institute, and even if they asked me, I would've calculated it. This means that this tax reduction will only contribute half to prices, i.e. consumers, and only to prices of expensive goods due to transaction costs, whose prices range from probably thousands and more kunas. However, the basic issue is the economic-political question whether the government's priority is now to fight price hikes or something else or to fight deficits and responsibilities. The answer is clear to me. The fight against deficit cuts and measures against all types of deficits, not prices, or inflation. Inflation in the Republic of Croatia is about 2% and is the lowest among European countries. The cause of low or high price growth in Croatia is not taxes, the drop in prices in Croatia is due to the liberalisation of Croatian imports, the low rate of euros or dollars. We need to know that the dollar, or the euro, will continue to fall, that the kuna will strengthen, it will continue to benefit from a reduction in prices so that the impact of the tax change will not, in general, be significant in the market economy... acts in monetary policy rather than fiscal policy. So I don't see that it's reasonable to spend three billion kunas to achieve the goal, to reduce prices that won't contribute to that. By giving up 3 billion kuna from the budget, the budget deficit will increase directly for that amount, and this will not affect prices. If tax collection can be improved, it is more economically reasonable for me to reduce all deficits rather than reduce taxes, to increase public investment to boost this economic growth. More price reductions will be affected in the next period by the reduction of customs duties that Croatia is obliged to make under the WTO accession contract, and the signing of Protocol VII with the European Union will also act to reduce the prices of certain goods. Out of one and a half billion kuna, which I estimate will belong to consumers, or citizens, they will spend half of it on domestic goods, and half of it on import goods because it is simply the structure of Croatian consumption. The Croatian consumer spends 50% domestic and 50% import goods. This means that about 750 million will go on import goods or, on this basis, imports will increase by cca 100 million dollars. As we know, this VAT reduction will not affect the increase in exports so that the final result will be an additional deficit in the trading balance on this 100 million dollar basis. Finally, with all the good intentions of the promoter to achieve positive effects of this VAT reduction that were likely to take place at first sight, all will end up with an increase in the budget deficit, regardless of which he compensated, it is by definition a deficit, a reduction of budget revenues based on this external trade balance, and finally, since it will not be able to pay for all this, Croatia's debt will increase without significant effects on the other side of Croatia's economy or citizens. Although I am personally against all VAT cuts, I even as a... politician would rather increase VAT so that I can pay all deficits in Croatia as quickly as possible, etc. From the economic point of view of whether, I would not be in favour of reducing these deficits, which in fact the increase in all these deficits can become a very soon-to-be limiting factor of Croatian development. However, in the current economic and social situation, I would support the SDP proposal because, with the same deficit in the budget, it would achieve at least positive social effects in the poorest layers of citizens, because the poorer they spend relatively more on food, and this SDP proposal would increase the competitiveness of the Croatian tourism sector. However, as I believe that the Croatian government's priority goal now is to reduce the deficit target and slow down external debt, rather than curb price growth, we do not hold this proposal from an economic point of view justified. Because it increases all deficits, 3 billion in the budget, 100 million dollars in the external trade balance, which will all be poured into the debt of the Republic of Croatia on the other side, and to the same extent or to a greater extent does not produce positive social effects. And that's why you couldn't support it. As regards the differentiated tax rates, I note that all the countries of the European Union are at the stage of development at which Croatia is today, meaning $6,000 per capital had differentiated tax rates. Now that the European Union has an average of $25,000 per capital, is it important then to differentiate the rate through such income of the population? And finally, as far as VAT rates are concerned, of course, there are always budgets in absolute amounts, and now if we imagine that Croatia's gross domestic product, which is actually added value increasing from 23 to 30 or 40 billion, means, for double, would the cost of the state increase by double? I'm sure he wouldn't. We are in this situation that and can reduce VAT from 22 to 20, to 16, to 17% because the state as a state has its fixed costs no matter how much gross domestic product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8281	Thank you. That's how we exhausted the list of people reported for discussion. Do lawmakers report for the final word? No, I don't. [[Intruder: No.]] And Mr. Mato Arlovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8282	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. After an all-day debate on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, first of all, I would like to thank all the participants in this debate, on behalf of the Representatives' Club as a Proposer, the SDP as a Proposer, for their arguments for and against them. We will consider all, all proposals, all opinions if our bill is referred to a second reading and try to install to another reading our bill proposal, making sure that we respect the basic concept, that we practically ensure differentiated rates with our bill proposal. In this respect, we would like to thank in particular for the quality and professional presentation of Dr Jurcic and the suggestions of his colleagues from the HSS who have made additional proposals to consider reducing, i.e. increasing individual differentiated rates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8283	Thank you very much to the motionary. Thank you very much, everyone who participated in the debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I conclude the debate on points 11 and 12, and the vote will be held when the necessary conditions for voting are met. Tomorrow we start at 9:30 with the agenda point, the draft law on amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act. Yes, and a united debate also on the same title for the bill. So, here, I wish you a pleasant evening. I'll see you in the morning at 9:30. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8284	The next vote is Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, Proposal for Law No 8, second reading. The Proposer of the Law is the Government. The debate on the text of the Law is over. We have a table with amendments. I ask that MPs and MPs be prepared. Director of the Tax Administration, Master Ivica Mladneo, please be clear on Amendment No. 1 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8285	Amendment number one is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8286	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment number two of Dragutin Lesar's representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8287	The government doesn't accept it. Explanation: Article 2. The government of the Republic of Croatia narrows the round of recipients of foreign donations of VAT-free payments. As a result, they lose the right to exempt from paying VAT. They will no longer have non-profit organisations, institutions and associations. In addition, it narrows down the circle of goods that can be obtained without VAT payment, so products with special taxes such as oil, oil derivatives, alcohol, tobacco and tobacco, tobacco products will no longer be obtained. The reason for narrowing is also a reduction in abuse, and also a more difficult control and therefore the amendment of the esteemed representative Lesar is not being accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8288	Thank you very much. Agent Lesar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8289	I find it difficult to accept this view of the Government because I simply do not know of any foundation of 40 as many as there are in the Republic of Croatia that have tried to smuggle oil, cigarettes or oil derivatives into the Republic of Croatia since the day of establishment and work. This moreover, the more this release also concerned funds received from abroad and used in the Republic of Croatia and the reminder that the foundations and the largest number of foundations in the Republic of Croatia deal with helping citizens in the field of scholarship, schooling of students, demining Croatia and helping in the health domain; operations, transplants, medicines, disability aids. The donation in goods and money from abroad for these purposes was indeed not subject to smuggling or it would be strange and it is strange that it can be called out or that the Government proposes that sports amateur associations remain, and the trusts involved in such activities do not. I'm asking for a vote on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8290	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 3rd Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8291	The explanation, as for this second amendment, is the same. That's why the government doesn't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8292	Here you go, pal Drandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8293	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues of the Club IDS have made an amendment to point 12 of Article 12 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law concerning the release of VAT payments for the import of goods that are as a donation given to humanitarian, health, education, cultural and so on, we propose to organisations and to include in these organisations the fire departments of society and community, because unfortunately, what is still the situation in our country as regards fire-fighting equipment is known to come from a large part of the donations especially for voluntary fire-fighting companies. We have a lot of problems with importing these equipment when asked to pay VAT on such donated equipment. So far, it has been a practice and has been dealt with in a way that VAT has not been paid. We only suggest that it enters the law and that it be clear. I think that we will contribute to the development of Croatian fire and help to make it better equipped and that the state will absolutely lose nothing and therefore ask for this amendment to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8294	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 4. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8295	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8296	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8297	He accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8298	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 5 of the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar is already, the next article is, but yes, please be clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8299	It's also an explanation like code 2, so it's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8300	Here you go, Comrade Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8301	This “not accepted” means, in practice, the following: if the Foundation of Imports or in Germany or in Austria buys a medicine or orthopaedic aid or something that needs to be installed in a person’s body, VAT will be paid. The medicine bought in Croatia and not on the list of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is also paid VAT. And this same fund of money from which to buy this aid, medicine or pay the operation gets voluntary gifts from citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Refusal of this amendment in practice means that. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8302	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority I'm establishing. Amendment number 6 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8303	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8304	Thank you for becoming an integral part of the law. Amendment number 7 of the top-secretary, Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8305	It is not accepted, the adoption of amendments by the Legislative Committee means we cannot accept the amendment of MP Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8306	He's a colleague of Josipovic's. Which isn't here. We have to vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the 8th Amendment of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8307	We also cannot accept the same reasoning by adopting amendments to the Committee on Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8308	A fellow Drandic. Amendment number 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8309	Well, we, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, have, in this amendment, actually asked that the promise of a new Croatian government begin to apply as soon as possible to reduce the VAT rate from 22% to 20%, rather than from 1 July 2005. We think that the expectations of our citizens are exceptional that they are waiting for what will happen with this 1.64% reduction. And it would be good for the promises to be fulfilled as soon as possible and for this reason, and we propose this amendment, which means that the VAT rate reduced by 20% starts to change from 1 January 2004 and please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-25-0.u8310	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 79 votes for 23 against, and 5 abstentions, the Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax has been adopted, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Let's move on. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. We are going to a united discussion - Proposal for a law on amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act – Proposer Club of Representatives of the SDP, first reading of P.Z. No. 44 - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax on Income Act – Proposer of the HNS-PGS and LIBRE Club, first reading of P.Z. No. 12 Please refer to Bill No. 44. Is there a representative here? On behalf of the SDP Club? Yeah. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
