ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14942	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will not really explain this Law for a long time, given that the proposals of the law and the one that I am going to explain today are also a colleague of the SDP and what the Government prepared could read a lot in the media and it was thought that these laws were already before the adoption, because the state budget provided money for the application of this Act or for the Fund for Temporary Child Support or as some called it an alimony fund. I, listening to yesterday's debate and the last few days, have been able to get the impression that this House is really taking care of population policy, taking care of families, and since we're already taking care of families, then we can't just consider the family ideal in which both parents who care for children are also single families who are usually in a somewhat more difficult material position. The law that we are going to discuss today is a law that, if we refuse, regardless of the proposal that I made together with women's associations, or a colleague from the SDP, then we must know that we are actually 43,000 children up to 17 years old, as long as they do not receive alimony in Croatia in an extremely difficult material position. Or 19,000 and 500 children over the age of 17, but children. So these are all cities, if I say 43,000 children, I have to say that the city of Bjelovar has fewer inhabitants than it is children, try to compare it with its cities and see what it means to pass this Law. I will indeed state only a few reasons and possibly try to be precise by making arguments. Namely, for the achievement and establishment of this Fund, NGOs, whose proposals I made here and in the last term, were primarily B.A.B.E. and Autonomous Women's House, who had warned about avoiding child support for children divorced parents, of single children, and most of all, this avoidance was related almost 100% to fathers, and so far no one has shown a more serious sensitivity to resolve the issue, of course, which caused single parents' dissatisfaction and particularly dissatisfaction with the ineffectiveness of the state, so it was generally left to the mother without anyone's support to exercise that right. We know that mothers usually don't have extra funding for lawyers or time to try to get it out. So one woman said that for seven years she struggled to get alimony, take both lawyers and even a private detective firm to find out where her husband was working because he was able to get all the necessary papers and prove he was out of a job. Of course most women can't let that happen. When the right to alimony was achieved, it was often the very means that were embarrassingly low and insufficient for normal life because unfortunately in Croatia there are a large number of companies still paying salaries on black, and the alimony is calculated as a percentage of the salary. And in this way not only was the state wronged itself and the child itself. I will present a number of information about the families in the countries of the European Union, research conducted in households of 14 European Union countries, for example except Sweden, 12% of European households with children under the age of 25 are single-parent families. At least Spain 5%, Italy and Greece 7%, Portugal 8%, Finland 19, and Great Britain 22%. Single-parent families are usually in Portugal, 94% are women. It's interesting to see Denmark, Luxembourg and Finland where most single fathers range from 19% to 22%. The position of single-parent families has also been explored by the former Ministry, and this is exactly where we use this information that 62,000 and 500 don't normally meet such obligations. Single - parent families have had opportunities to value their material position, so 36% of them feel that they live badly while the two - parent families live only 8.6%. Another parent’s lack of involvement is in the care of such children. The statistics of single parents are different, and their concern for supporting a child from another parent is not at all 48.7% of single parents, so that's about 50%. We're assuming that this information is not quite accurate, too, that it's probably above 50%. Children born out of marriage are in a more unfavourable position somewhere above 66.3%, compared to children divorced parents, which is 43%. So, more rarely, parents from families born outside marriage meet their obligation, which actually leads to complete inequality for those children, and children should have the same rights. 13% of parents live abroad from such families, 4.5% of single parents do not know where the other parent is. The problem, of course, is with determining the paternity that lasts for years. I'm really not going to read right now, and I'm going to be reading later in the debates where you're going to see what the alimony actually covers, it's usually really embarrassingly low and covers everything around 20% of the cost of a child, 20%. In addition, women’s NGOs provided such examples where one parent refused and the value of a child’s birthday gift from child’s alimony paid only the difference between gifts and prescribed alimony. How far can your relationship go? The pluralisation of family forms puts first the rights of children or respect for children as citizens in their rights, respect for the right not to be discriminated against by whether they were born or not and whether their parents live in marriage or not? And that's exactly why the state shouldn't leave a single parent without an adequate collection mechanism. A study has also been carried out on what parents think of single parents as setting up a fund like this? And there is information where 76.4% of single parents express support for this proposal. All 5.6% of single parents hold no need to set up a fund like this. So 76.4%. I think we also need to explain a thesis that could be heard and read in public, which is that the state will now have to isolate from its budget instead of the irresponsible parents. That's not true. The state only needs to find good mechanisms to force his debt from an irresponsible parent. and if the rule of law works then for the implementation and implementation of this law, not at all, the funds should be allocated even to those allocated for this year and the application of the 1.9 Act was envisaged. So that thesis is completely incorrect and all you have to do is build legal mechanisms. Since this is about the bill, it is clear that I have not elaborated on it, that it is necessary until the second reading to hear you MPs, but to give the government an opportunity as well, which was my goal for the government to make a more quality law, to prepare it to pass in the process by autumn and to begin to apply this law. It is completely irrelevant for colleagues and colleagues, whether the proposal I made with women's associations, the proposal made by colleagues from the SDP or the Government's proposal, is important to take seriously that there are 43,000 children who need to be given their basic human and material rights. That's what we can do. If there was money, and for our cobwebs and forgive your colleagues and fellow pensioners. If there is money for your rights and if it can be found in the budget for them, then I believe that money should be found for both these young and children. I have heard many times just about pensioners who have said that they are willing to give up one part of their backs for the sake of young people, for the sake of their children and grandsons. Well, here's a chance for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14943	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, the bill will be explained by the respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14944	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So here's on behalf of the SDP Club a few things about our proposal of the Law on the State Fund for Child Support, first of all I would like to say that we are going to write this law because it seems to us that this is a problem which is a burning one that needs to be solved, more because such a fund is recorded and as a commitment in the national family policy that the Croatian Parliament has brought in the last term. We have therefore decided on a legislative proposal that we have done well in the example of some other countries, which such a fund has had for a long time and in particular we have served very much with the example of us neighbouring countries of Slovenia. So such funds are not something that would be new to Croatia, they are funds that work in many other countries. First of all, it should be said that this kind of fund is brought exclusively because it is visible that all the levers of the state that should function in this section are not functioning and therefore it is trying to find another model to force all those who should do their job in this part to actually do it. But also primarily this fund is intended to ensure a minimum existence for children at the time when they are scheduled for their parental responsibility. Of course that doesn't mean, as my predecessor said, that all the users of the state budget will take care instead of the irresponsible parent, it simply isn't. This fund should make sure that the irresponsible parent pays child support. As far as this proposal is concerned. I would just like to say that, in writing this proposal, we have been handling some of the data and some of the facts that we have had before us thanks to one study that has been done in the past four years by the State Institute for the Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth. Croatia shows a trend in the growth of children living in single-parent families. During the year 71, there were 137,000 and 503 children living in such families, so that in 2001, the last census would raise up to 188,000 children in single - parent families. Of these, the largest number of children live with mothers, so 83% of them, 17% of children live with their father, and unfortunately we have no record of how many children live for certain reasons with some other family members. In the population of Croatian families, 15% are single parents, and in the total number of families with children, the share of single parents is 20.6% or every fifth family with children. According to the results of this survey in Croatia, more than half of single parents somewhere said 55.8% barely meet the most basic monthly needs, while the same data from parents in the foster families had enough resources to meet their needs. This is simply somewhere on the trail of all the data that we could see through some worldwide studies of poverty levels in which, of course, it is the only foster family that therefore both parents are doing the main obstacle to the spread of poverty, especially some kind of child poverty. In Croatia today, the child support fee receives only 31% of single parents, while 43% of divorced parents and 66.3% of single mothers do not receive alimony at all. So this is actually the key data that shows how irresponsible parents are to their children, how much parents don't pay child support and on the other hand remember that you have decisions of the Constitutional Court, where children at 22 or 23 years of age because of system ineffectiveness only got the right to, so some kind of restraint of course in those years is more unnecessary when they needed the money for life then they didn't have it because of the ineffectiveness of the system. This time should say that the last amendments to the Family Law sought to make and a lot of shifts in terms of determining the amount of alimony, namely, until the last amendments to the Family Law, the alimony was determined solely on the basis of personal income, has now spread to all receipts, therefore also to receiving from certain shares in the stock companies, and therefore to each other of the types of income that the individual has, therefore, can be calculated much more justly now to the extent that the financial obligation of one parent to support his own child. Unfortunately, in that part, this law is still very badly implemented in practice because our parents who are irresponsible are also very imaginative, and they are very skillfully hiding all their incomes. On the other hand, we tried a little differently to solve a way of determining a fatherhood that also lasted a very long time, lasted for years and completely wrongfully hurt a child who could not only know who his father was but also seek his rights from that parent. So we then put in the last amendments to family law that within three months, DNA analysis must be submitted to determine whether or not he is the father of that child. In this law, therefore, the right to compensation from the Fund would have all the children who have the power of a court ruling, which set a financial basis for its maintenance which, of course, is a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, and of course, those funds would be allocated from this fund, of course, from the state budget by having those funds returned to the state fund with interest from, therefore, the moment when the state is pushing that money away from the irresponsible parent. I think that this fund is primarily here in a position to force funds and somewhere to force irresponsible parents to take care of their child. I think the fund will do it a lot easier than individuals do. Namely, here is only one case that may be the freshest in the Republic of Croatia of Croatia to be one of the senior officials of the Ministry of Defence who has not paid child support for years, but where also a mother could not reach the address of this man for 12 years, and the court could not give a single decision to such a man. So, given that he was an employee of the Department of Defense, he was absolutely certain that one fund would have worked very easily and very quickly could have reached its employee and forced him to withdraw from his salary to pay his child for his child’s child’s child’s child’s alimony. Unfortunately, a lady as an individual as many other women do the whole system must push ahead to protect their children’s rights and rights. And that's why we think it's necessary to form a fund like this. I must also say that we have received a negative opinion from the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this law, a negative opinion stating some of the things why such a fund is not accepted, among other things, because of certain provisions written in the Family Law and the Social Care Act, in which there are therefore certain obligations and opportunities for a social care centre to intervene when the child has no means to live, so when there is no payment of the alimony. Unfortunately, social care centres do not work on that either, so they do not use that authority. So here's what we think is one of the reasons why we need this kind of a completely different mechanism. And the second I can't agree with, or we at the SDP Club can't just accept this. In fact, it says here that this law ignores other laws, primarily the Bank Act, in an act relating to the protection of banking secrets, the use of the protection of confidential data. This is because we put in our law that those who will therefore be employed in that fund and the fund have the opportunity to access all necessary data. Therefore, the fund must also have access to the cadastrian registers for the control of the assets that a specific person has but also to all those documents which can therefore indicate certain incomes, the specific property situation of a specific individual. Unfortunately, today we have a situation in Croatia that we have individuals who live extremely well, drive in very expensive cars but in some ways they have replaced all tracks or rather no one has any insight into their actual incomes and real property conditions and therefore the children are completely unjustly left without their incomes. This system that we have written here has many other countries, so we have a neighbouring Republic of Slovenia which is a member of the European Union and I really don't see any reason to think that if we want to have an effective fund that will really introduce order among those irresponsible parents who don't pay child support that we really open up all our options and bring our irresponsible parents' imagination down to the lowest possible extent. Therefore, if there is a truly sincere will to solve this problem, then this law should go about changing some other laws, but I do already have a question of where children's rights are because we keep talking about human rights, the right to a bank secret. So everyone else has some right to protect some of their interests and children have no rights. Therefore, let us remember children and their rights a little bit more and a little less the rights of both banks and individuals to protect some of their private interests and to protect their property. And in the end, I have to say that this fund is extremely important and because today, by increasing 12 times the bar fees, it's really impossible for me to think more than 95% of mothers to force alimony and therefore get a decision on the amount of compensation to support their own child. These tariffs thus increased, the amounts to individuals were significantly increased and very very mothers who would be able to finance the judicial process to receive compensation for supporting their own child. Once again, so all those who discuss this law primarily please make sure that children have the right to be abstained from their parents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14945	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Ruza Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14946	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Introductoryly, I must point out that Croatia's party of rights supports the proposals of the Law on the State Fund for Child Support, only we regret that the Government did not give this bill so that the debate could be even more quality. Unfortunately, we all know this problem, or the problem of collecting alimony from contacts with citizens, acquaintances, etc. According to the latest data in the Republic of Croatia, there are 62.5 thousand children who are not supported by one parent but are a reflection of the situation of the entire society in which it is considered normal and only reacts when it comes to public persons but are not responding effectively and with sanctions that would be an example to other persons who act in the same way and avoid supporting their children. And let me just point out. I don't just think of my fathers here because I'm familiar with a number of opposite examples of how mothers act at the time. I also believe that the time has finally come for parental care to be equated or not treated in all cases for the benefit of the mother, but for the situation to be appreciated from case to case. The fact is that our judiciary in terms of child protection as well as in many other segments is not effective and the problem makes it difficult to see from the data that as many as 66% of single mothers and 43% of divorced parents do not receive alimony and 80% of total alimony is forced by judicial means. The problem of child restraint should be addressed by all authorities in order to achieve the legal obligation to support children. The question is raised, and all because of the poor and slow implementation of the law and its provisions, whether the laws should be amended. It is obvious that there is also a number of procedures that have been initiated for not paying for alimony, most of which last for years and some to the age of a child. It also happens very often that parents who are very poor in property and other parents do not contribute to maintenance are not able to exercise their rights by judicial means because of high costs. It is certain that this bill is more than welcome because it provides for a single parent to be placed in the position of a country that helps in the daily expenses and child restraints, which will certainly be more efficient and faster to pay, claims than those who avoid their parental obligations. Such a fund, which provides for the proposal for a shelter, is certainly welcome and represents a solution that enables children to have as much a better material position as possible. By doing so, the State would correct its mistakes in cases where it is not effective enough and does not allow the child to be properly protected, and would assume on its own the obligation to pay child support and payment from parents who are obliged to pay and the instruments at their disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14947	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14948	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian Democratic Community Club, considering the overall issue, and in particular these two Law Proposals, stands on the trail of its comprehensive concern for the family, of course children and the overall framework of demographic policy, supports the intention and goodwill of the legislators of these laws. However, it is also one of those inherited laws for which the same goodwill existed in the previous term, there was even a bill but which was passed on to the burden, so to the new government and which is now in the form of these proposals for us to debate. So allow me, then, to make a few principled remarks about the laws themselves, and then, of course, articles, especially each of them. So Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic's proposal of her law, of course, made quite unconvinced and generally suggested the need to pass the law and the remaining financial indicators were, of course, correct, because all of this data we listened to, of course it owns them and the Croatian Democratic Community Club were removed from the 2001 census, so it really stopped these three years. So we're in possession of these, so to say the different surveys that are conducted daily on the internet and different monitors and different not governmental organisations, so these percentages are something that we all talk about, I'm not going to be particularly about every percentage. However, when proposing a tax payer law, the budget cuts will be precise indicators, therefore, accurate approximation and costs, and therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community is awaiting a bill that will be proposed by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Generation Solidarity, especially by the family administration in the next period where it will deal with the exact and exact data that are valid at the moment when the law is proposed. So in this part, if this law were to be in, and adopted, and we suggest, therefore, we support the good will that this law, no, that these two laws, and we will not vote for them, do not accept in the form they are today, therefore, it would be the construction of a completely new administrative system and we already have existing centres for social work and different, different state bodies dealing with it, we find it unnecessary. The bill also goes beyond the social status of parents and their situations, rather than the child's right to alimony, which should be the fundamental thesis of the law. And now let me comment more on what we think there is, it should change. Therefore, Article 10 does not cover all children entitled to maintenance belong to the basis of family law. In Article 11, we believe that the implementation of this article is impossible because it enters the jurisdiction of the court, i.e. by means of a judicial decision, the legal representative of the child is obliged to initiate the ped procedure by a competent court and we do not see that the law should say anything new. Article 12 goes directly to the jurisdiction of the court because the proposed provision of Article 12 does not make it clear who should in no way impose funds on the implementation of the exercise of the exercise of the property and the real estate owned by the debtors. And it's in direct contrast to the provisions of the existing executive law. So Article 13, we also believe that it is contrary to Article 10 of the same Law. In Article 14, it is also unclear what it means, I quote:...as soon as the conditions are met.". In Article 16, it is also contrary to the Family Law, since if a child is put under custody because a parent is deprived of parental right, this does not mean a release of parents from the obligation to pay for his stay. In principle, Article 17 is both contrary to and with the purpose of the establishment of the fund because the fund cannot pay off the judgment of the abstention or assume the entire obligation of the debtor, or the liability of the maintenance, because the fund is neither a debtor nor a debtor. In Article 19 of the Fund, it is not possible to request data from banks because what Mrs Opacic said, we think it is, however, contrary to the law on banks. It is also an unclear proposal from the Proposer to conduct an emergency procedure before the competent authority after the necessary permission of the requested introduction without a determination by the Authority. Here, that would be the law, Mrs. Adlesic. As for the law of the SDP Representatives' Club. So, the same are those principled remarks that I said, complemented that, therefore, this bill actually ignores the part-time work of the Social Care Centre, the existing Family Law and the provisions on the conduct of the parties and complaints are entirely unarranged by us. Therefore, I will also go by articles and say that the proposed bodies of the fund are more appropriate to companies or entrepreneurship funds than to this fund. Therefore, Article 14 proposed the borrowing of the fund, which is no longer a clear subjectivity of the fund, i.e. whether the fund is a state administration, a public institution or a company. In Article 19 of the Institute of Prolonged Parental Rights, it essentially does not exist in the Family Law anymore, it is listed here. In Article 21(3), we believe that it is inexplicably unclear and that it is unarranged in the sense of family law because it does not mention a child who is regularly educated after his age, nor is a child put under parental care after his adulthood. In Article 22, paragraph 1 is a vague proposal from the authorising officer to be called upon, and I quote: "...which regulates the performance and the insurance.". In Article 23, it is impossible to apply this because it is not in accordance with family law and social welfare regulations. In Article 24, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 are out of line because the child’s age overlaps. This Regulation shall enter into The Fund must not be the executive body of the court, so the amounts to be paid cannot be the same as those established by the judgment. We also feel that the Family Law is ignored in Article 26, Article 28 also ignores Article 210 of the family law. We believe that in Article 30, bank data is a business secret and that they can only be delivered at court's request. In Article 35, too, we believe that it is questionable and practically impossible for the public administration to request data on bank accounts and other securities of natural persons and also the authorities of the state administration cannot ask the judicial authority for personal data. In Article 38, we believe that the Fund must not open up the possibility of not paying the maintenance obligation, however, the general purpose of the establishment of the Fund is to pay back the paid-offs, which would affect the increased liability of the holders. the parents, and it is unclear in Article 40, and the position of the promoters that the start of the work of the Fund is determined by the Government and should be defined and we should say that, of course, I repeat special childcare concerns and child support, however, that the amendments to the Family Law and the adoption of the Fund Act are also before us, and that it is possible to consider whether taxpayers cover or need to cover the debts of unconscious parents, that we believe that the alimony should be prompted by the right debtors, so those who are determined for these court decisions but that we believe that, on the basis of all this, we also need to process the data that should be the basis, the financial data for the adoption of the law. So I repeat, we support good will, we support intent, but we suggest that neither of these laws be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14949	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14950	Thank you, Mr. President. In addition to wrongly interpreting the whole series of provisions, I will correct only one incorrect quote in article 21 where my colleague says that... projected restraint, child support for more than 18 years of life. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is explicitly provided for in Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Proposal of the law, paragraph 3 for all children who are regularly educated and in accordance with family law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14951	On behalf of the IDS Club, the respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14952	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! I must say in the beginning that IDS supports the formation of a state fund to support children, and also to remind that so far there has been a lot of talk about children in this assembly. It was about maternity leave, maternity benefits, health care, and, of course, according to the government's intelligence policy, that a demographic restoration is needed in the Republic of Croatia. The fall of birth in Croatia is not just about the problem of maternity benefits or length of maternity leave and it is hard to believe that parents would choose to have children for this reason. We are aware that the decision on how many children they will have is not dependent on compensation or leave but depends on how the children will be enrolled in the mangers, kindergartens, how these children will be educated and financed. If you really mean systematically and systematically solving the problems of demographic renewal, then you really will have to take it seriously or should be taken seriously because the measures that have been taken so far, and I mean on the already mentioned fees and leave that has just opened up the subject of demographic renewal. Because other than initial measures, there should be a real childcare process, and that is where I think primarily of tax policy because it is necessary to create a secure material and secure legal environment for both children and their parents. Here's the latest research I've been following in the media is what the City Planning Institute of Zagreb has done, more and more talk about negative trends. That more and more families without children, somewhere around 26%, more and more of those who have fewer children, one or maximum two, are growing drastically the share of single households and families, the share of mothers, single mothers and children growing up about 15%, and the number of divorced. According to the Bureau of Statistics in 2002, 22 806 married and 4496 divorced, about 25%. All these data show me two key things: First, that economic factors contribute to the disintegration of the traditional family, disrupt between family members relations and, of course, the fall of birth. And second, since the situation is difficult, and when both parents are raising children, we can imagine that a parent who himself has care and care for the child has only one income or even more times none because perhaps some parents live only on a child’s allowance. When a parent encounters such problems in the structure of a state that is expected to help them do little to help him. I'm primarily thinking about welfare centers and the judiciary, of course. Because social care centres that are expected to help parents at such difficult times are not subject to the laws of the Republic of Croatia because in the first place they do not respect the basics without respecting the deadlines imposed on them by law. In the IDS, we believe that the state through one alimony fund would provide the necessary funds to pay off and prosecute all those who in any way avoid the payment of the alimony. Because so far we have examples of the ineffectiveness of courts in forced charge, and that efficiency can indeed be said to be catastrophic, and the possibility of avoiding alimony payments is very high. This is explained by the fact that 60% of the alimony in the Republic of Croatia was unpaid from not receiving calls from court, false addresses, false data about unemployed, unemployment. Of the remaining 40% of the alimony that was somehow charged as much as 80% was charged by court. Therefore, we believe that the State Fund for Child Support is an effective way of helping the parent overcome the period until court conditions for the collection of alimony are created. The pronunciation that the funds are not foreseen in the Budget at this time does not mean anything because now it is an opportunity to rebalance the Fund and one such law is not passed for just one year. Let's pass the law for the first time, even if from next year we'll provide for funds in the Budget. In fact, the Government’s observations, or opinions, of the Government that have come, refer only to some technical problems in the proposal itself, which could easily be resolved if there is a political will for such a fund. Finally, in my opinion, the adoption of this Law would certainly contribute to the overall solution that the Government likes to say in addressing the problem of demographic renewal of the Republic of Croatia. I would certainly like to emphasise that I am sorry that the Government has also not submitted its proposal and that there are already two proposals in the process, and we can understand that so that there is no solution or that it wants to set up such a fund. As far as I'm concerned, maybe in the end just to tell the laws so far, why we might need such a fund. We have a legal solution in the Family Law that parents have to do, but when parents are irresponsible, I think that the state needs to help that parent who has a hard time and who has to support his child. Because parents can't give up their parental care. Maintaining a child is a duty and a right, and parents must support children together or separately. I repeat once again, the IDS supports the formation of one such fund, regardless of where the proposal came from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14953	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14954	Thank you, Mr. President. Our colleagues and colleagues are before us two draft laws linking the common objective, which is the establishment of a State Fund for Child Support that would be financed from the state budget and which would pay child support in cases where parents or parents who are obliged to pay for the maintenance. The reason for such a proposal is the fact that more than 60% of abstention payers do not, and therefore suffer children. Such children are exposed to poverty so that they are not given what is most necessary without being talked about what would equalize them with the average of their peers. How we live in a materialized society that is very inclined to bring judgment on a person and value by what marks are of her shoes, shoes, or trousers, we will easily conclude what traumas are experienced by those whose parents sooner or later concluded that love and even patience and mutual respect have disappeared. Only the impatience developed to the point that even after divorce because of animosity toward the former mate of another mate uses all the possible means to avoid contributing to the maintenance of his or her own child or children. He resorts to lies about his own incomes, incomes and assets by not wanting to suck and analyze the level of conscience built,... from telling the court about the morality of such proceedings. [[You don't understand.]] But what terrifies us is the impotence of the state. There is a proper way of identifying the property, and if it is not perfect, we change the rules that regulate it so that it does not happen that the maintenance officer drives a expensive car and wears a expensive suit and lives on welfare. What's his actual source of income? Tragically, if even the state can't determine that. We would dare say that the impotence resulted from a lack of will in various reports of course official nature, we find data that points to the empire of the gray economy, and in some reports it is said and stated, and nothing has been done to counter that economy. We're coming back to that fundamental problem, which is to control the law enforcement, and here from this pay phone we've heard a lot of times and even a few days ago, the state is responsible for implementing the law throughout its territory. We fully agree with that, but we would like to see and feel the effectiveness of the awareness of responsibility. It is embarrassing to read in the Ombudsman’s report that maintenance procedures last for five, seven, or more years. Although the executive law prescribed a way of forced collection is very often so and procedures are unsuccessful and even at the cost of abstention. The impediment to charges is often cited as leaving the country. Not old, but not so young lawyers remember that we were taking away passports that were then called passports for the payment of debts. In such procedures, the charge was safe. Democratic spokesmans will say it was a non-democratic measure and a violation of the constitutional right of citizens, i.e. to argue, but is not a violation of someone's constitutional rights and inability to charge especially in this case when it comes to child rights. Forced collection instruments exist, but should be complemented by those instruments that have been shown in practice to be most efficient. We are not afraid of objections stemming from the extensive interpretation of the Constitution. Let us bear in mind that in the whole world, it is perfectly normal and common to take away the passport until the debt is settled. Thanks to this measure, we are now in a position for large debtors to leave the country most often, and the state can welcome its claims. What does the establishment of the Child Support Fund mean in such a situation? It means carrying the burden of restraint from the irresponsible parent to the state. Of course, children are neither guilty nor responsible for their parents' irresponsibility, and in order to protect the child in order not to be traumatized from the earliest age, we at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasants' Party will support the idea of setting up a fund to do so, we will support one of the two proposals, although it is unacceptable for the state, not wanting to recognise its own impotence, to take on the burden of the budget with the same high risk of the collection that the recipient is carrying out today. This Regulation shall enter into The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states: Parents are obliged to raise, support and educate children. According to Article 62. The Constitution protects children and youth and creates social, cultural, educational, material conditions that promote the right to a decent life. It is certain that material conditions promoting the right to a decent life of the state did not provide half of the 188 thousand children living in a parent family. This large number of children are unlimited but their constitutional right of restraint has been denied, and the reason is among other things the unknown residence of abstention and life outside the Republic of Croatia. None of these reasons are excusable. In a legally regulated state, we find it inadmissible that it is impossible for a citizen to determine the place of residence. So in Croatia, we are just a little over 4 million. It's obvious someone's not doing their job. It is even more tragic that the reason for not fulfilling the constitutional obligation is life outside the Republic of Croatia. In these cases, it would have proved very effective if, for unknown reasons, we did not resort to an extensive interpretation of the Constitution by claiming that it was a violation of the constitutional right to freedom of movement. Yes, it is a restriction of rights, but in the function of protecting other people's constitutional rights of restraint, education and a worthy life. As one of these bill proposals comes or two, one actually comes from the opposition club of MPs, we were not interested in the idea of obtaining the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That's just impossible. In its opinion, the government cites the Family Law which elaborates the restraint procedure, the restraint measures and the enforcement procedure itself for maintenance. None of this is disputed except for the fact that the law is not implemented, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible for law enforcement throughout the Republic of Croatia. It was expected that the government would cite the regulation of instruments to guarantee the implementation of existing laws and legal solutions, however, this is not the case here. The government does not dispute the value of SDP's Club of Representatives' initiative, it says that even in the 2004 state budget, it has overlooked the appropriate resources for improved social protection of children divorced parents, extramarital communities for which abstention bonds do not pay for them, but nevertheless it says that the proposed law cannot be accepted. If we hadn't already learned such illogical arguments, we would have found it strange, but there is no place for astonishment, not even in the part where the government says that it has prepared a bill on the Fund for Temporary Child Restraint, which indicates that by taking the burden of restraint, that is, the obligation of irresponsible parents will recognise their inability to ensure the implementation of the Constitution and existing laws, but only on condition that it is the proposing itself. As far as the proposal for the law of counterpart Djurdje Adlesic is concerned, we fully agree with the government when it says it is not clear at all and based on general observations, and that this is why it should not be accepted. Therefore, because of the large number of children disreputed, the Croatian Peasant Party's Club will accept the bill from expressing dissatisfaction with the state's impatience, i.e. the Government, to ensure the implementation of existing laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14955	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14956	I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that the illogical behaviour of the government when providing funds at a certain amount, I quote the lady, and I'm going to say that the amount of 20 million kuna, is rejected by the law because there is no money. It is true that it is not because it would take between 90 minimum, up to 150 million kunas if we in some way predict some potential number of those search engines and some amount. So it's incorrect to say that it's illogical, it's logical.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14957	On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14958	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Let me now, after the day of the reasoning of what is the content of the law, so perhaps some word more on behalf of the SDP Club, say about why we have proposed and what is actually the ultimate purpose of this law. By listening to some discussions now, I must say that a bit of a bureaucratic approach is being addressed to people who live around us and who are often either invisible to most or who are easily overcoming their fate, their position and their legitimate demands and expectations to help them because they have the right to do so. They have the right to demand that the state stand behind them. There are people living in Croatia who have problems. Single parents are these people, and not only because they face social problems more seriously than those living in families that are two-nutrient than because of the perception of the environment and the attitudes that are formed as if they were people who are lower or less valuable, who are slightly suspicious, and they and their children. Last year we did a huge, large, comprehensive survey on single-parent families in Croatia, personal experience and environmental attitude. You see, it's a study in a 486-page book that's also bunkered at the National Institute for Family and our bill of law is the consequence of a studio, extensive study of the social status of people in this country, and so are these single-nutrition families. Our bill of law is the consequence of this research also in which it is asked to examine what is the most tangling and most concerned by parents in single-parent families, one of these things was certainly also the exercise of the right to alimony. The greatest dissatisfaction, I quote the study's findings, "in a group of single mothers, is causing the ineffectiveness of the law regarding the achievement of alimony and the fact that the mother is allowed to exercise that right. Single mothers often do not have additional financial resources for the lawsuit and lawyers, and neither time nor support to protect the child as they deal with the exercise of that right." Says one mother, for seven years I struggled to get alimony, even with lawyers I took a private detective firm to prove where he works. Or says the second mother, if the father doesn't pay the child, that lawsuit costs 800 kuna, while you pay the directors of 3,000 kuna wages, you pay the foreign language of the child, the kindergarten, and you wait in court for three years and it goes up to power. Or so on. One says, my social worker said that where luck is for a husband to leave Croatia because then there is a case of non-payment of child support in Interpol's jurisdiction, which in these matters is much more effective than a social work centre. And so, etc., etc., not to give statements, authentic statements to mothers who face this problem. We are a legislative body, but we are also a representative body and there is no reason not to admit to anything that we are not successful at. We failed to provide workers of failed businesses and companies to get their salaries and we had to reach for something to help them, so we founded a fund from which the state aliminates salaries, therefore, and backlogs, and it pushes the debt out of these failed companies. And in this case, as uncomfortable as it may be for us to be recognised, we are not capable of our citizens who demand with the right to exercise, the realisation of that right, we are not as a state to provide it. And that is, and that is the fundamental reason why this Fund is founded. Not to free irresponsible parents of obligations but to help families who are located and who are 4 times more exposed to the risk of poverty than to the parenting family, to help them, and to make the state itself more effective in achieving and performing its functions, in this case and judicial functions, because indeed, the trial and exercise of this right takes as long as it takes for the child to grow up from newborn to adulthood. And that's why we're not able to admit that we're not able to have a system where it'll be unimaginable to make one such obligation as paying for alimony, not to be executed. In some other countries, it is unimaginable. I am convinced that when such a fund is established that this fact itself will help one part of those who have been going through it anyway, that they will consider whether to avoid or not to avoid paying that alimony. In our bill of law, you saw two alternatives. I personally advocate an alternative in which, according to the level of alimony of the state, it is necessary to pay for that whole height, therefore not according to categories but as much as it should be if it is 5 thousand kunas, so let the state pay for it to force the irresponsible father or in fewer cases the irresponsible mother. It's really something that's not big money. There have been speeches in the budget that some of these have already been provided and there are many reasons to help families, single families and single parents who are not only in Croatia but in all countries are a very risky group for poverty. Otherwise, the number of single-parent families in the last decade has been growing in the European countries and is going much faster towards classical nuclear families, one of the reasons especially... countries and increased divorce rates but also the decision of many women to decide to raise children without partners. What is characteristic of poverty being more feminized and increasingly infused. This means that among the poor, more and more women and children are precisely thanks to this fact. When it comes to Croatia, these data are somewhat milder in a negative way compared to other countries, because according to the 2001 census, there were a million and 252 thousand families in Croatia, and there were 27% of married couples, with children 58%, families with children 12.45%, and families with only father with child 2.55%. In the population of the Croatian family there are 188 thousand or 15% of single parents, and of which 83% of single parents with their mother, or 156 thousand and 17% or 31 thousand 965 live with their father. Perhaps even the fact that in the single parent population most of those with one child, understandably and expected, 70% and 132 thousand families, respectively. When it comes to the problems of these families they are expressed in the fact that there are numerous social prejudices, that single mothers are harder to hire. That there's one verse that goes towards these women, so in this study that I've already cited are the earthquake stories about mothers who had to especially go to their children because they were composing them, because the child lives with the mother in a family where there was a divorce. Says one mother I had the most trouble with when the kid started first grade. The "marriage" parents wouldn't let their children come to us because we were alone. I was going from one parent to another and I was saying that my child was well raised, if something was wrong with the kids, then okay, but in advance to defend my child from hanging out with mine. Or says one mother of mine drew a family of me, herself, and a dog, and then a pedagogogogic called me to talk because it was something abnormal. Or even if you want to go to the service, says the social worker talks to me and asks, then ma'am, you left your husband or then your child has no father. Such issues look at prejudices that further hinder the position of these families, these mothers and be closed eyes next to that huge group of people who are additionally difficult under otherwise difficult circumstances and transitions and lusts, living, would mean being bureaucratically imprisoned for people’s problems. And that is why the SDP Club proposes this Law, supports its basic idea in the desire that this fund be temporary and that we establish such a legal system in which these rights can be implemented very quickly, in which they will be able to be realised in favour of our families, our fellow citizens who have, the state is obliged to help because the function of the state is to help and protect its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14959	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS PGS Club, a respected representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14960	Dear Mr. President, esteemed MPs and MPs. By participating in this debate on the Proposal for a Law on the State Fund for Child Support and the Proposal for a Law on the State Fund for Temporary Child Support, I must first express satisfaction with the great concern of the promoter, which is certainly necessary for the protection of children, i.e. the beneficiary of the abstention provided for in this Proposal for a Law on enabling them to exercise their legal rights of restraint. Comparing these two proposals, I believe that the SDP Club has, with its proposal, seen the real situation in our society, more detailed, more realistic and more acceptable approach to addressing the problem of children's rights to abstention. It is true that the possible establishment of a fund to support children, i.e. the Fund for Temporary Child Support, would be the implementation of one of the measures of national family policy, particularly in view of the protection of the interests of children as a constitutional category. According to Articles 61 and 64. The Constitution. However, I wonder what can result in the establishment of a Fund for Child Support, or a Fund for Temporary Child Support. IS this the way to achieve positive or negative effects in society as a whole? I believe that, first of all, we support the failure of the rule of law, which in no case should be a goal or an interest. We should already take all the activities to ensure that the legal system functions, in this case, that the abstentionary fulfils its moral, ethical and ultimately legal obligations. To legally prevent him from giving false information about his income and property and, if necessary, to educate him as a parent that he has a responsibility and obligation to his child. Looking at today’s situation, it is obvious that most or at least a good part of the abstention obligation in all possible ways avoid the execution of even its minimum legal obligations, especially stressing the minimum ones, because children need to be given great love and feeling that they are loved, and the means to maintain themselves are purely minimalism. I would also like to remind myself that there are legitimate institutions in Croatia today, i.e. social work centres, there is a child's attorney, there is a legal framework, meaning the Social Care Act, which defines the provision of legal advice, the overcoming of specific difficulties and assistance for maintenance. So, in Croatia, we already have a certain legal framework and a certain elaborate social care centre network that may need additional assistance from human beings, or that at least a little more will be teamed up in order to provide adequate assistance and to implement what has already been prescribed by the laws. The adoption of the proposed laws could result in negative effects, i.e. an avalanche of requirements for the establishment and other payment funds in which the payer does not fulfil its obligations. I think you agree that there are many in today's situation. It would also significantly increase the number of parents who would accept this fund as an advantage and stop paying their commitments. In view of the fact that a large number of abstention holders do not comply with their obligations, it could possibly be considered and discussed that the Child Support Fund is established on a certain deadline, i.e. for a transitional period in which activities would be taken, as I pointed out earlier to the functioning of the legal system. As a result, in the way proposed, the Fund cannot be a rule for which the state assumes the obligation to pay off natural persons, but could possibly be an exception. And existing instruments need to improve forced collection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14961	Thank you. It is next, on behalf of the Club LIBRE, the esteemed representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14962	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, MPs. I think it is the most valuable, the biggest gain of this law, which opens up a really important problem that exists in Croatian society. But in what I'm going to say on behalf of the Club of Libre, I'm going to try to point out also the negative aspects of the proposals that these two laws contain. It is certainly a big problem that only 31% of parents pay their obligation to alimony, i.e. child support fees. And, of course, it is not a good trend to increase the number of children, i.e. the increase in the number of families with only one parent, but this is another, is a global, or European trend and we can hardly solve it, especially with laws like this. But if we look at what the consequences of this law will be, then we can't actually be unanimous with either of these two laws, so entering into, not in the differences between these laws, but only in their fundamental intensity. The fact is that these laws, or resolutions, will not reduce the number of single - parent families. So that's undeniable, because those two are probably not in correlation, if they're in correlation, then they're negative. But it's less certain that, in order for solutions from this law to increase the number of parents who don't pay child support. It is certain that if there are such a large number of parents, and of course you should trust the Proposer, that the number can indeed be said terrible, only 31%, or 69% of parents do not pay child support or pay it in the right way, then it is certain that these solutions will encourage another number of parents not to do so, because someone else instead takes responsibility, the state this time. So that effect is definitely negative. The second, of course, may be an even more difficult issue, the issue of trust in the Croatian judiciary. If these proceedings take so long, and of course they last, part of the general climate, and then the ineffectiveness of the judiciary lies also in the mistrust that exists in that judiciary. This law is likely to increase the level of mistrust of Croatian citizens in the Croatian judiciary and thus actually slow down the achievement of its effectiveness. I don't see why the state would be more efficient than a citizen to the state. It would be more logical to expect the citizen to have a stronger interest, to protect his rights, and then to be more committed to Croatian courts and to force him to do so either before or to reach a solution for Croatian courts to become effective. Therefore, I think these are two fundamental reasons why these proposals of the law do not, of course, question the positive effect of opening these issues at all, nor should the proposaler’s intention be given much consideration. It's absolutely incomprehensible that we're so easily going over the fact that it's not possible to determine whose income they are, I guess that's supposed to be an elemental thing in the rule of law. And this law kind of settles with that fact instead of trying to find solutions. And equally or even worse, it is unacceptable to find out where someone lives in a rule of law where there are therefore all mechanisms of registration and everything that we do here in the Croatian Parliament. It is difficult to accept that there is no possibility of establishing the registration of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And of course if we accept that responsibility for resolving this issue will be taken over by someone else, which is a state, then we will be even slower than we have ever been in a situation where these issues as one rule of law will be resolved. Of course, there are also a number of other issues, when once a country is involved in family relations between a mother and a father, whether it actually makes it difficult or easier to create a normal family climate, repairs, and a bad climate that exists because of the failure to pay off, probably makes it difficult. And it is, therefore, a negative solution, i.e. a negative relationship when the state is placed between citizens and Croatian courts, i.e. the judicial authorities of a state. Therefore, these are all the questions that this bill opens. and therefore these questions should be well thought out. It is not the point of the state that it regulates issues of relations between citizens, but to lay down rules of course of good rules, so that within that, citizens themselves worry about resolving their mutual relations. And this law actually forces the state to intervene more strongly in relationships that in modern societies, especially in companies with a liberal sign should not intervene. So these are all the questions that this law opens with itself. Of course, he's opening another question. How much does that cost? Often we here in the Croatian Parliament treat money sometimes as very important, and sometimes decisions are made with ease, not only in the Parliament and in the Government are similar situations, which are hundreds, two hundred or three hundred million kuna. But what matters is how much it costs. So if the state has money, and I don't think they're there. Then the question should be asked, what about children living in families with two parents, and they are in a more difficult material situation than children living in families with one parent? In the event of the death of another parent, the unemployment of both parents if they are alive, the disability of parents, families with more children. When the state respects all of it, all those obligations it has made with regard to such families are likely to have a large number of children who will be in worse shape than families, so only with one parent. Is it just to do so? So when these children get a child’s allowance and social benefits, etc., they will still likely be a large number of children who will be poorer than children living in families with only one parent. Therefore, this law introduces outside the social criteria for social regulation, emotional criteria, moral criteria, and this is the question of whether the state should interfere in all this together. So, this is all I'm saying on behalf of the Club LIBRE, in principle, but I repeat, I don't question either the good intentions of the promoter or the even less usefulness of opening this question because it really sounds terrible when this data states that only 31% and therefore I repeat it to my parents pays their constitutional and legal obligation not to talk about the parental and moral obligation they have to their children. For all these reasons, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, therefore in the long term, believing that these are not good solutions because of skepticism in their short-term quality, because they will delay the adoption of long-term good solutions but because this important issue is being raised that perhaps in a second reading, the Club of Representatives of the Libre may not object to the proposal that these two laws enter into another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14963	Thank you. In accordance with Article 207 paragraph 2 at 11 hours, the time for the 10-minute hearing has expired. On behalf of the HSLS and DC Club, the esteemed representative of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14964	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs! Paraphrasing the famous Tolstoy's saying "All happy families are equally happy. Every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way." We could say that all children living in regular families or in extramarital communities in which one parent shows little concern and then, of course, material care for that child has multiple multiple reasons for dissatisfaction and that they are actually deprived of the psychological benefit provided by the parent and then, of course, for the material well-being and help that parents must provide to their children. Therefore, the adoption of this law and the establishment of the State Fund for the temporary maintenance of the family is, in fact, intended to make up for such shortfall and give the children at least hope, at least the possibility that someone else, which means the public, the state, other citizens, through the state budget, from which they will put funds into the fund of such care. We are all aware by analyzing this data that the predecessors already mentioned that unfortunately we have more and more single parents, more and more extramarital communities, and again fewer other parents who pay child support or who help support their children. This is a big enough reason for us to take this seriously, and that is precisely why the Croatian Social Liberal Party's initiative as a social-liberal party is something that we consistently represent from, I still have to mention, the formerly convened parliament when we only went out with the initiative but then the budget was already passed in the current year, so we could not go with the fund-building law, so until this term of office, which I must say, in her programming documents, she wrote down and clearly pointed out just social consideration to the disadvantaged groups of Croatian citizens. Therefore, our initiative should especially have and expect echoes in circumstances where we are generally aware that unfortunately in this country there is a large tax ejaculation or tax spillage, that unfortunately we still do not have real data on working on black, that we still do not know what the actual number of unemployed is or how many of our citizens are employed in the gray economy. All of this, therefore, is just this mess, the inability to get a real picture is still complicated, creating additional difficulties for all of those single parents or parents in the extramarital community who are trying to get real property data, about receiving other parents that could charge child support for alimony, or so that they can get the funds needed to support children. On the other hand, it should be noted, ladies and gentlemen, that other circumstances in Croatian society do not go hand in hand to such parents. A few days ago, we heard lawyers significantly increase their tariffs. I ask you how in the civil litigation of the mother, most mothers or other parents will now charge child support. How? With taxes that are now going to increase almost by no means. We heard here some parents are trying to hire private detectives. What all parents have to do in this country that is networked by an extra administration in order to access the data at all. The tax authorities cannot often obtain data on individual legal entities. The question is then let alone how an ordinary citizen will come, and most of it I say single mothers who don't have time to actually push debts and don't have time to follow their husband or other parents to know if he's working somewhere, whether he's black, whether he's gone abroad. And it really is a shame what it says in the book that a colleague Vidovic mentioned that when a parent goes abroad, then Interpol haunts him before and sooner finds him than we can. It is only a sign that today's developed countries of Europe, democratic states, social states are taking great care of children and it is not exactly what my esteemed colleague Rados says that the liberal question of whether a liberal state should be affected by relations between parents and children. On the contrary. Where liberals are in power, as in Slovenia, there is a Fund for Temporary Child Support and Slovenians have such a legal category and it is excellent, it really works great in practice because from this the fund is alimony for those children whom parents do not pay, and then the state is charged by such parents. I just remind myself that it's true that the State's Attorney's Office is representing the state and that the State's Attorney's Office is representing the mother and that it actually affects the parents by law, but usually so-called. a double condition, usually given a six-month period for the alimony to start paying, usually if it is not to pay a sufficient level of alimony, so it is just prescribed but only one part is paid then the State's Attorney's office gives a six-month period but to pay a delay without counting the tight interest. If parents want everything to be charged and interest on what isn't paid, then they have to start a civil lawsuit again. Such a civil case now, in my opinion, will, in fact, lead to an even more difficult position for parents, to be completely unnecessary and inappropriate in these circumstances. And I think that's an important reason for us to approach this bill. On the other hand, the same is the fact that the adoption of this Law would have a double benefit and would have fulfilled a double purpose, before reaching out to children who are now deprived of their material rights, for their carefree materially secured childhood. But on the other hand, it would actually make the judiciary more effective and make the state pay as soon as possible and more effectively than such a parent that she had to Alimentate instead. We must finally force the state, first of all, of tax inspection judicial authorities, to impose such debts. And I think this, accepting this law would just force the state to do so. It is not necessary to mention that unfortunately, in European countries as well as in Europe, we can say so to the most social European countries, for example Scandinavian, such as Sweden and Norway, the number of extramarital communities is increasing, the number of single parents is increasing. The latest data suggests that nearly 40% of children in Sweden are born today in extramarital communities and even, now we don't talk about all the ways, so, where most mothers, in different ways, artificial insemination and elsewhere, outside of that, marriage communities, out of even relationships with men, get, or give birth to children, start taking care of children. In Croatia, every fifth family is a single parent family, and this trend will certainly continue. And these unfavorable sociological indicators when it comes to the dynamics of these family relationships and expectations further strengthen the need to pass such a law. On the other hand, it should be said, and that is true, with what counterpart Vidovic said that there is a fiminisation of poverty in Croatia, that unfortunately it is happening precisely if we do not pass this law and the promotion of children and women. This kind of rate of not paying child support is nothing but with our help if we don't pass this law organized child puperating. And we have to put an end to it. We really need to bring this, set up this temporary maintenance fund, pass this law and make it possible for those kids whose parents don't pay and don't care about the child, not give enough material resources to keep children as materially secure as possible. Of course, it is always possible to ask the question of whether the state should enter these complex, diabolical psycho-social dynamics in the family. But today, in order to call it social philosophy, the role, the social role of the state, is just about the rights of children. Here, perhaps, you should speak with regard to the fact that almost 100% of such single parents are mothers who make up the debts of husbands, or ex-husbands. Perhaps we should talk about women's rights, but I think we should talk more about children's rights. And if we really want to do more as a state to promote human rights then we must finally start talking about children's rights. And exactly the role of this alimony fund would be to secure a stable inflow team... It also provides parents with stable, or at least as stable material opportunities for children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to this particular relationship of state and family, I would just point out that even more wise Confucius expressed it in that famous sentence if the state is arranged then being poor means personal failure, personal dissatisfaction and incompetence. But if the state isn't arranged, then being poor means that the state except it's unedited and significantly unfair. I think that although we are all a legislative body, we should look into the truth today and say that our country is unfortunately when it comes to material rights not arranged for all of these reasons that we're just talking about, tax-saving inability to even determine who's employed, who's not employed, who works, how he receives pay, up to all the other circumstances. So, if the state is unsettled, then its task is precisely to that category of population that can't take care of itself, which is our children, so to ensure that this fund is provided temporarily by the state to provide basic conditions for such children and then to become more efficient and to collect. I must finally say that I am not happy with the position of my colleagues from HDZ, I would not look too much at the SDP proposal because they had four years of minister so they could bring such a law quite freely, they could have thought of it a little sooner, but I do, but it is really unclear to me that except, I know that, I know it is difficult, it is difficult to look into the eyes of the surrounding, as Tin Ujevic says, but so unfortunately, you did not, you could have done it, but now I am talking to my colleagues from HDZ really not clear to me first that today there is no one here from the government, gentlemen it is inadmissible. What was being debated in this House, the ministers were being brought in, they were being detained, we don't have today when it comes to such an important law, when it comes to children's rights, when it comes to something that should stop depopulation trends, there's no one here, we can't talk, we can't discuss, I don't think that's good. In particular, I am deeply saddened by the fact that we verbally declared social sensitivity, mainly towards women, gender equality, stable conditions for children, we talked about population policy, however, it does not seem to have anything to do with this law. Today in the Evening List you can read, I quote Matica Croatia and the Croatian Pediatric Society warned of a worrying demographic picture of Croatia yesterday. Croatian Pediatric Society President Josip Grguric argued that Croatia is only very declarative of children while reality is completely different. Ladies and gentlemen, let's raise our hands in another reading of these laws and show that we're not just taking care of the children, but that reality is really going to become different.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14965	I thank the esteemed representative of the Czech Republic. And here is a representative of the government, respected Mrs. Ninic, assistant minister. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14966	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so Mr. Chehok says that I said that it would be illiberal to introduce this law into the Croatian legal system, it's too harsh, I didn't say something like that. I just said that a state according to liberal principles needs to be less involved in those relations that citizens need and can solve for themselves. And because such a solution was introduced in Slovenia, it does not mean that it is a liberal solution, there in power other than the liberals, the nominal liberals were both Social Democrats and the cracks, therefore it is not a confirmation of the liberalisation of that solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14967	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14968	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'd like to say at the beginning of this only exposure as a proposer after all the clubs have shown themselves that indeed this population we're talking about today, about their problems, about somewhere more than 130 and some thousands of children who don't receive alimony and who may be living on the verge of living existence because of having irresponsible parents, I really don't think it's a chance and a topic today when we have to talk about who did what. Today, gentlemen, in this House, we have enough hands, enough power and energy to implement this law. So if we want to do something, let's not hide behind what someone did but do today and help this population we're talking about today. Of all other things, this population will not benefit much. I am sorry that today again on this one topic concerning primarily children of HDZ parties who are now in power is showing insufficient hearing, insufficient political will and unfortunately complete exposure by representatives of the HDZ Club is hiding behind a bunch of inaccuracies that have been presented on the SDP Club proposal because simply all of this has been stated here as an objection to individual articles because, of course, it was only possible to talk about our law because no one in this country can stand up to such an idea and to such an intensification of the law that we have proposed here today. Simply so, these individual things were just a cover for what should have been said here very clearly and loudly that this government would not deal with the establishment of one of these funds and would not solve these problems that we are talking about here today. That's why I can't make peace and I won't get back together with the thesis that's been put forward here today, I don't know which time from HDZ representatives that this law is contrary to certain laws that protect the banking secret. It is between interest and protection of the interests of children and individuals to whom we should protect fat bank accounts really in the first row of the children's interests, and I don't care about their right to keep their bank accounts protected. I'd like to take the opportunity just to say something to maybe remove any misunderstandings that we might have, maybe we could follow up on something that my colleague Radosh said, and it's about his finding somewhere that this fund could contribute to making more parents who won't pay child support. If this Fund really works under the law that we of the SDP Club have proposed then that means that these people would actually be demoted for not paying child support. As a result, this Fund has the possibility to enter as a believer instead of a child and to demand the amount of funds paid under the Decision on compensation but increased for the corresponding interest and costs of the procedure. Which means that an irresponsible parent, if this Fund were to function, would have to pay a non-alimony of 200 kunas, perhaps or 500 as much as it is determined by a court, but twice as much or as much as anyone knows when all of that goes up to some interest and certain costs of the procedure. I think that and that there will be no other way but indeed go with very drastic methods and indeed in a financial way try to understand all those irresponsible parents to pay child support because if it starts to happen so if this Fund functions that someone instead of 200 kuna alimony pays at the end of 400 kuna if it is taken from his salary. If it was taken away from him in any other way and charged by him, then from his property it would actually mean one good message that it would not be worth paying child support because then you would pay it twice or triple that. And at the end of the day, there's just one more thing. This Law is, of course, intruding into the rights of children and all these rights that we have talked about here today, but is intruding with full law because children under our Constitution are under special protection of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14969	Thank you. Vice-President of the House Đurđa Adlešić, Proposer of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14970	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I also want to thank all those who have supported the Law, but also those who have supported the initiative. Because really what I said at the beginning doesn't matter whose proposal will pass. I believe that here this political part which is unfortunately visible and today should be the last, regardless of whether the SDP proposal, the proposal that we have expressed, developed or later proposed by the Government, is important for the Alimentary Fund or what it has already been called to pass. I think this time we could really overcome these relationships that are who they are. That is why I thank those who supported the initiative above all and pointed to the lack of law. However, this is indeed a bureaucratized approach when we go to comment on the article in the first reading because there are two readings. Besides, colleagues and colleagues, there are three law readings. I don't know where you suddenly discover that first reading can be flawed. Otherwise it would be an emergency procedure. So we have a chance to fix the law, we have a chance to withdraw two laws if the government or I would withdraw mine if the government had come up with a better proposal already, and as far as I know, that bill is over. And that's why I'm sorry that there's no Mrs. Kosor I know that law with the experts has been made. So the problem is somewhere else. We should know where that problem came from. But let's not forget the data that everyone brought out at first. It's interesting that there was a dispute. It's 188,000 single-parent families. That's a huge number. 62 500 children who do not receive alimony. Let that be the main reason, the main reason, and the main indicator we'll be going back to in all our discussions. And I think we've forgotten that part a little bit. A colleague of HSP Tomasic warned well that it was actually a legal inefficiencies that we have a chance to fix. And that's for sure. If the rule of law worked, no one would have to separate funds from the state budget. Of course, the existence of such a fund and interest that is mentioned would be a good reason not even to be late. If it worked. We are reminded by colleagues that there is an article, of course there is a Family Law, that is this 352, a family law that says that so far, such debts have been allowed. However, colleagues and colleagues did not apply this article. I think that exactly in this book that my colleague Vidovic seems to have mentioned to me about single-parent families there is a fact that one year everything is about 300 alimonys forced according to the advice of the Centre for Social Work. And see what that article 352 says. Therefore, the existence of a provision 352 is ignored as it states: “If a parent who is subject to a judicial decision or an agreement concluded before a social care centre is obliged to submit for child restraints does not fulfil his obligation for more than 3 months, the Centre for Social Care is obliged to propose a second parent or, under official duty, to assess that the child’s restraint would be compromised”, “to take measures to ensure temporary maintenance until the parent begins to meet his obligation again.” What happened when the centers didn't do it? I can't believe they've made a decision downtown that parents who don't know, and not all of them are equally educated don't say. Someone had to whisper to them sooner or later. And it was saved on children. How else do you explain such a small number of those who used their legal right except that there was some kind of silent, silent agreement that parents would not be warned about it? I also agree with this part that was opened by colleagues from Libra. And this is that it really raises the issue of ineffectiveness of the judiciary in almost incredible areas. That you can't figure out where someone lives and how much money they make. Of course we know you're making money and you're working on black, but that part's quite repairable. I don't think that's supposed to be a reason not to go to the funds. This part I've read, the Law, Article 352, I've actually tried to answer to a colleague from the CNS that is not here, tell her that we understand that this Law exists. But it is also clear that neither the law nor the article is consummated. A colleague of mine, a HDZ colleague, I have actually responded right now and I am talking about an approach that is perfectly clear because it is about first reading. So the law can be fixed. And in the second reading, the law can be corrected by amendments. We know that. Well, we had laws where there would be more amendments than articles on the law. You all know that. So it's obviously something else. But I don't think it's important now to say what it's important to pass the law, it's important to secure the funds. Of course it's not convenient to start new funds. As far as I know, according to the law prepared in the government, there was a model that would not require the establishment of this fund but would be a matter of budget funds, but there's no reason why we don't find out here today and I'm saying it's not good, that I don't have that kind of information. We know that the assistant or assistant minister here can't speak, and that's why we remain to be denied for such quality information that would certainly change the course of our debate. So I urge you once again to accept the initiative and accept the law. I'm sorry, of course, for some bureaucratic and politically colored debates that were here, but we're used to them already. In addition to accepting the initiative, which should accept the adoption of such a law or better if it exists, I think there is one step ahead of us more and a step that will certainly be more difficult and should be talked about, which is that these funds are not convincingly low. If we go again with the adoption of this law or of someone better, and these funds are offensively low, then we haven't improved the standard of neither children nor single parents, but we are in fact still demeaning them and we are showing that we are unable to organise the protection of children's human rights that are being spoken of here today. I'm going to do what we heard one more time, because I'm sorry that the thesis is turning. This isn't a shock to the budget of this bill. This is just a fingertip in the judiciary that needs to take all the necessary measures so that 188 thousand single-parent families have a more decent standard than this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14971	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. It is up to the distinguished representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14972	Dear Vice President, dear Madam Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to refer to the proposal for a Law on the State Fund for Temporary Child Support, which was submitted to the Croatian Assembly by the Club of Representatives of the SDP and the Honorable Representative of Đurđa Adlesic, and to state the reasons why I cannot support the adoption of such a proposed law. In contrast to most European countries, Croatia would say fortunately a country of traditional culture in which the family plays an important role in society, in which the church, various associations and society as a whole agree. Of course, the role of the family should continue to be strengthened and not to deny the right for those who choose to live differently. But despite our traditional relationship with the family, unfortunately, there are more divorces. According to some indicators, each fourth marriage was divorced and the 1999 divorce was 3,270 and 2001. 4.496 which is very large for itself and also increases for 1,266 divorces, which is really too big, and with this more and more children living with one parent. The share of single parents is about 20% or every fifth family... with some indicators saying that up to 60% of children are not receiving help to maintain what is in itself a warning. Life with one parent, which is 80% of mother cases, deprives children of various material rights as well as feelings of stability of one harmony and security. We know well that parents, and most often they are fathers, avoid paying child support, so we really have to ask ourselves what kind of people are willing to leave work or go abroad, alienate property to deny their children the right to decent living conditions, and often these are the basic living conditions. So besides the fund, I think that we also need promotion of basic human values in order to make that behavior acceptable, as well as systematic preparation of young people for marriage and marriage, as well as sexual enlightenment so as not to result in unplanned pregnancy, and later divorce. The establishment of the State Fund for Temporary Child Support proposed by the SDP club and the distinguished representative Đurđa Adlešić in principle supports it. I appreciate the value of the initiative and the idea in essence, but because of some uncertainty, insufficient arguments in terms of providing funds and certain discrepancies with other laws such as Family Laws and Banks Acts are thus proposed by the state fund law to me unacceptable. I would like to say here that I do not agree with the motion that MP Opačić has stated that the Banks Act or any other law is above this law but that it is only necessary to bring it all together. As the most unprotected person in society, children require special protection and I fully support the view that each child, and especially children with one parent, is provided material and any other assistance, and with regard to the Family Law in its maintenance provisions, clearly prescribes the obligation to support children by parents as well as relatives, stepmothers, stepparents, grandparents, grandparents and grandfathers. Furthermore, the current Family Law provides for the possibility that a parent who, on the basis of a decision of power and the arrangements concluded before a social care centre, does not contribute to child restraint for more than three months. The Centre is obliged to propose parents or, under official duty, to take measures to secure temporary maintenance funds until the parent of the obligor begins to meet its obligation and according to the statistics carried out in 2003, so the number of temporarily dependent children was 367, so we have had one way of helping with child restraint. The centre launched 250 proceedings before the court while 294 deals were concluded. We see that these are all quite small figures. 652 obligor parents were reported in 2003, 458 were charged and only 285 were sentenced. The establishment of a temporary maintenance fund should be more detailed and more precise and comprehensive, because in addition to the positive impact of what should be the objective and purpose of the law, this is to take into account possible negative consequences that can discourage parents who meet their obligations, so the number of non-payments could be increased. Those who avoid paying obligations would now do so even more easily. Mothers could be less motivated to seek their rights for children because it will be easier to achieve this right in the fund, and more judicial processes can be expected to be initiated by the fund and we know that this is a long-term process for the state and ultimately needs funds that are not precisely quantified in any excessive budget. So we need to guard against really hasty law-making that would be inconclusive or flawed, which would soon change, and all of this causes material costs, useless waste of employees' time to implement, but also one confusion and abuse of scarcity. I therefore support the government's proposal not to accept the proposal for a law establishing a temporary maintenance fund submitted by the SDP and MPs' Club, Đurđa Adlesic, and I also suggest that the Government make up a comprehensive and enforceable law in all its parts and then refer it to a parliamentary procedure which will certainly get my support and I am convinced most of the other representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14973	Thank you. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14974	I'm sorry. Mr. President, I am giving up this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14975	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14976	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. And in Croatia we heard this from some previous exhibitions, the increasing trend of single-parent families... /The speaker came out for a pay phone./... So, once again, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I said, as some have said before, in Croatia as well as in many and more developed countries than Croatia, there is an increasing number and trend of single-parent families. In Croatia, single-parent families are also a very vulnerable social group because they actually represent parents who independently without the presence of another parent taking care of a child. According to the last census of the 2001 population in Croatia, exactly 188 thousand and one child were registered in single-parent families. Every 5th family with children is single-parent, and according to data from the research done at the time, unfortunately abolishing the State Institute for the Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth, more than half of the single-parent families barely meet the most basic needs. He's late paying directorial expenses, giving up rest, free activities of children and the like. A major impact on this material condition of single - parent families has a non-payment of what we call alimony. Almost half of parents cannot realise this right of the child, and as they warned me before, today about 62,000 and 500 children do not receive alimony, which according to all the positive legal regulations, and also the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. A large number of parents, primarily fathers, deliberately avoid employment, often change jobs or place of residence. Some even leave the country and use many other ways to avoid paying for child restraints that are legally mandatory to do so. Even 80% of the alimony must be filed by court, and the possibilities of course to avoid payment are inexhaustible, frequent changes in residence, transfer of property to other persons, avoiding paternity proof, contesting court orders, etc., etc. State care for the family, especially the protection of children's interests, are constitutional categories. Among the measures in the national family policy that was adopted, if I am not mistaken, by consensus in this Croatian Parliament in the past term, is the establishment of the Support Fund. This Fund would be subject to temporary payment of child restraint fees in accordance with a decision of power or of a settlement concluded at the Centre for Social Care or Justice and therefore, in cases where one parent would avoid paying that alimony, and subsequently the state authorities would carry out the payment of that claim by the debtors. In my opinion, the state should develop a quality policy toward families with children, especially single parents, or single parents. In fact, research into the social characteristics of such families has shown that there are just enough incomes with the fact that support in raising children from other parents is often one of the biggest problems. As for the risk of poverty, it is the largest in households whose homeowner is a single parent. For example, in 2002 there were 27.7% of those living with income below the poverty threshold among single parents in Croatia. Studies on the social characteristics of such families have shown that, as I said, insufficient incomes are just one of the biggest problems, and not the negligible percentage of single parents ’ children who show that during the week preceding research they were concerned about their family’s material situation. It has been said several times today in the debates, which is true, that and existing legal regulations such as the Family Law and today allow for some kind of, let's call it state alimony, but this possibility is used in a very, very small, I would say, negligible number of cases. For example, for the previous year, funds were provided for, however, not used and in essence, I would say, are not the parents' fault because they do not have to know everything in all the laws, but those who are obliged to warn about this possibility, firstly social care centres, were obviously not proactive in that sense, i.e. did not warn obviously parents and allow them to take advantage of that possibility. There is something else that no one may have mentioned today, and this is about the debate and the article in the paper on the height that certain judges determine, as regards, therefore, the height of the alimony, so I will warn that in the Family Law, Article 232 states that the minister of justice should once a year publish information on the average needs of the child, which, as far as I know so far, has not been done. So, I repeat, by the Alimentation Fund, which is a temporary fund, the state would assume on itself that in cases where it is not effective enough, it pays child support and that it subsequently pushes that debt away from the abstention. Other countries were mentioned. It is true, there is a so-called so-called "Republic of Slovenia". public guarantee and alimony fund. Their fund shall pay compensations on the one hand to employers in the event of insolvency of employers and, on the other hand, in one part, to children in the event of non-payment of alimony. What's particularly interesting, and I don't see any reason why it doesn't happen to us either, their fund may request, has the authority to request all the information it needs in deciding on the right to alimony compensation. Among others, both from banks and savings banks, on all open transactions accounts, current, giro-accounts, and savings books of users, the payment obligation of maintenance. Gentlemen and fellow MPs, I consider as a colleague of Opacic who said it before me. I don't see any reason why that's not possible with us. Personally, I think it would be possible if there was a good will, the political will of all of us, that, with the child's right to support by the parents, we would put above the same parent's right to keep a business secret about how difficult his bank account is. I would like to point out the example of Sweden in particular. Why? It is precisely because the government's Deputy Prime Minister, in particular in all these discussions and statements made in public, highlighted the example of Sweden. Gentlemen, Sweden, where it is almost inconceivable that a judicial verdict will not be carried out and that someone will not act on it, there is also a fund, primarily intended for child restraint. But also in cases where one who is obliged to pay child restraint has the right to ask and ask the state to pay for a certain period of pay instead because he is not able to, for example, lose his job. And he made a special agreement with the State on the conditions of return and the height that the State had paid for the children instead. So, even in countries that I repeat, it is inconceivable that there are such funds that the state jumps in because, despite the fact that someone is currently out of work, the child has the right, the fundamental right to be abstained from by parents. And by the end, let me put it this way. I'm going to quote an opinion, part of the government's opinion on one of these bill proposals. He says. "The government of the Republic of Croatia considers it necessary to point out that it has prepared a draft law on the Fund for the Temporary Support of Children, which will be referred to the parliamentary procedure in a short time, and will soon propose appropriate amendments and additions to the Family Law, all for the purpose of legal and material empowerment of existing institutes in this area." My colleagues and colleagues, these two bill proposals, the SDP Club and MP Mrs Adlesic were sent to the parliamentary procedure in February of this year. The government's opinion, which I have quoted in part, was sent to us on the date of April 23rd of this year. On July 1st, the budget provided €20 million and should start with the payment on October 1st, the Deputy Prime Minister said in her last statements that there is enough time to prepare quality legal proposals for the Fund to function from October 1st this year. I remind you of the three-year maternity leave law that we have brought very quickly since the beginning of this House was due to begin operating from 1 June, with the first June of the potential beneficiary of this three-year leave, they have not yet known who to address, which documents should be collected in order to achieve their right. I hope it doesn't happen with the foundation of this Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14977	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Zgrebec. You can see your colleagues if they're working okay if they don't work out okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14978	I think these only work... Thank you, Mr. President. We've been waiting for more than four months to discuss these bill proposals, which we don't think is good. When we talk about the problems of parents who support their children themselves, then we really need to have more hearing about their problems, when I say so, then I will also refer to the highest law of our country, the Constitution, which in its 35th article says that all are guaranteed respect and legal protection of personal and family life, dignity, reputation and honor, this should primarily guarantee children in such families. Furthermore, the 61st article of our Constitution says that the family is under the special protection of the state, the 63rd article says that parents are obliged to raise, support and educate children and have the right and freedom to decide independently about child rearing, and 64th article of the Constitution says that it is the duty of all to protect children and powerless persons. Therefore, all other laws and mechanisms of protection in this case of children should be derived from this highest act of ours. We have also tried to do so by adopting the Family Law as well as by national family policy, which in one period determines what should be done in this area. So, I will repeat it again because it is important data that almost 190 thousand children live in Croatia in parent families and that it is about 15% of all families in Croatia or almost every 5 families with children. Also, about 84% of social assistance users are single mothers' families. More than half of single parents say they barely meet their monthly needs at the lowest level, and over half of parents cannot realize the right to support children. Therefore, these are frightening data for our country and we, as a legislative body, must do something about it. The question arises why so many cases of unpaid child support fees, i.e. why alimony is so inadmissible that those as we have heard here in some cases can cover barely 1/5 of the child's needs. Certainly, it is significantly influenced by certain objective circumstances such as very high unemployment, and it is certain that a parent who has no job or has a part - time job cannot regularly or cannot pay for child restraint at all. This is also affected by the irregular payment of salaries as well as by the low wage paid in many cases in that minimum amount, as obligations are paid and the rest is paid in cash and does not be recorded. But there's our obligation here to prevent cases like this, which seems to me we're not doing very effectively. It is also the fault of the inefficient court, which leads to lengthy proceedings, which is high costs for the parent who wants to charge such a fee for supporting the child from the irresponsible parent who does not want to pay it or when he is able to pay it. That low alimony is not only to blame for the remuneration or financial income itself in one month but also for the case law which often does not take into account the overall material status of the alimony obligor and there are also cases that do not use at all all the possibilities allowed by the Law to impose penalties, we have heard here from the withdrawal of the passport, to the giving of alternative prison sentences for those who are within or not paying the alimony at all. Children from single - parent families have been cut off in many areas, especially cases in patriarchal and conservative societies. It is our obligation to train state systems to become efficient, but as long as this is not achieved, temporary mechanisms need to be introduced to solve the most difficult problems of most of the weakest social groups, and children, especially children living with one parent, must be. By accepting the 2004 state budget, the Croatian Parliament provided funds for this purpose, of course, in one low amount of only 20 million kuna. We here in our bill say that this should be about 150 million kuna on an annual basis, and I personally think that when planning and adopting a state budget, the priorities that should be financed from it should be taken into account, and this is an unquestionably one of the priorities. By accepting this item in the budget, we have actually obliged the Government to propose a law that will ensure the use of these appropriations. Since the Government has not done so far and we will practically come into a situation before the end of this spring session to discuss the new budget in the autumn, it seems to me that there is an objective danger that these funds "will disappear" after the rebalance of the budget that has been announced to us already for the next session. To solve any social problem, it takes political will. If it exists, I am saddened that there is no such political will in this case, and what is presented to us in the government's opinion that it will come with this proposal, it seems to me that if we also pass such a law as the Government proposes it will not be in place for 2004, in another few months we have threatened the existence of such families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14979	Thank you. Replicated representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14980	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I volunteered in the replica of my colleague Zgrebec, because today I heard from my colleague and other predecessors the word calling the government to acknowledge inability, indifference, insensibility, ineffectiveness, there is no political will that will be greater than keeping the bank's data, it will disappear, now said my colleague Zgrebec, and there will be no funds in the upcoming budget rebalancing. This calling is not based on anything. You have not proved that this government, the Croatian government that has existed for 6 months, will do what it does to this Croatian government, to protect every individual, not a child, because it is aware that the young world is left without a family, there is no future in this country. Since our worldly theaters are different from your party's worldview, be assured that the funds will not disappear and that this government will take care of every child, and you could prove that for four years. If this law hadn't been passed in maybe a year and a half, I'd say they have the right to call us such and such. But every day listen to you and call us to our personal and human and moral and political and religious responsibility, it's really inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14981	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14982	It's obvious our worlds are different. You're advocating one patriarchal conservative society, we're advocating something else, you can't replicate me anymore. However, it is obvious that there have been a lot of laws that we, as the SDP Club now propose, have actually been in preparation at the Ministry and Government. One of them, of these proposals, is the Law on the State Fund for Child Support. Kola Vidovic was here when he spoke on behalf of our Club one analysis on which it was actually based, on which was based the proposal of the Law on Child Support Fund. I'm actually concerned that we here heard from your colleagues and colleagues that there was a complete bill in the government, and he hasn't come here yet in the parliamentary procedure. What does that mean? This means that only in the autumn will we be discussing this bill, and its application will not then be possible in this year, but probably only at the earliest in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14983	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14984	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. When the SDP Club publicly announced that it was going to the procedure and submitted a proposal for a Law on the State Fund for Child Support, which we are discussing here today after a few months, it is better to get out of the government first thing tomorrow, or after a few days it won the news in one daily list, 20 million kuna from the State for alimony 150 thousand children do not receive alimony payments from the state. So, this was announced by Deputy Prime Minister Kosor's Deputy Prime Minister, literally, that the Ministry of the Family will be fully formed on October 1st, so that now we need to start with an alimony fund that will fully resuscitate only next year that we still don't have the exact data as far as parents don't pay child support, our first task is to establish the state of affairs, only then will we know how much money we need, but we assume that 20 million kuna should be enough for the period from October 1st to the end of the year. In line with the results of the analysis, we will decide whether to pay our parents full alimony or to pay everyone a minimum, however. That was said at the time. Today, as we discuss here, there is no Deputy Prime Minister, there is no minister, there is no, here is the assistant lady with whom the law and the Rules of Procedure have given us the opportunity to say anything about this. However, after a few months, the Government again called in its opinion on, giving an opinion on this proposal of the Law on the State Fund for Child Support, where it says that it opposes, that there is a Family Law, that there is an Executive Law and what is briefly said about what the SDP Club even dreams about. However, at the end of the day again, I guess recalling that it would still be good to say something about it, and then the government says that if she had already prepared already then, she would say that she had prepared a proposal for the Law on the Fund for Temporary Child Support, even though she told us that, with Family Law and Executive, this is a superfluous matter. So, in its opinion and in its written opinion, it says, that we have prepared it, the government has prepared a proposal for a Law on the Fund for Temporary Child Support, which will be referred to the parliamentary procedure in a short time. This dates back to 23 April 2004. One-third of the year has passed. Is that short or not? Of course, a short time from a few days may be a month, especially if it is true that the government has already prepared a bill. No government, no metrics, no law. But there's opposition. But there's still promises of something that's gonna be something. Gentlemen, we don't have time to bluff. Clearly, then, another false promise is back to work. The virtues of public, vice secrets as they usually do. We publicly boast we will, we will, when we have to say something concrete, then we won't. But that's why there's no arguments. I think that if, right here, it's said that our different worlds are worlds that are true and good that's the way it is. I think it's the right of every government to act on its own belief and according to its worldview, then it's open to say, no, we don't think it's our concern, that care is purely women, mothers, because it's usually trusted by children, it's mostly men who don't pay for restraint. Or find another reason. But this is, therefore, we're at the level of some abstract consideration, a concrete proposal is here. This bill speaks neither of happiness nor of family accidents, for it is too short a time to discuss it, what these women bear. This is about material giving how to make it happen so that that child can survive at all. We're not talking about any luxury here, we're talking about the basic things of life that are necessary material things to tell the child to survive. Why we decided to do this. The truth is, the coming court cases are stifled by judicial possibilities, that judicial proceedings are long-term, even in these matters. Of course, the situation used to be a lot different around here. Because the Family Law is, almost in that part of it remains unchanged, which clearly and loudly says, the parent is obliged to support his child. All the later this height that has somehow settled through court practice requires us simply to give up all the other calculations. A parent who is capable of supporting a child. And it doesn't matter whether he's busy or not. When he gave birth to it, when he created it, it was created by it and its obligation. The first-degree courts facing life have a lot of understanding, however, it is the second-degree case law which therefore wants to analyse and prove any possibility or fact that would affect that height that kind of discourages first-degree courts. And in that sense, it is now our obligation that this case-law be amended to speed up and facilitate the procedure. So if it comes from the naked fact that a healthy parent is capable of supporting children, then everything else would become immaterial. It is noteworthy that this trail is precisely where such a material right would be exercised during the coalition government by the Law on a litigation procedure which allows and requires courts to concentrate the procedure, so that the preparation or the first hearing concludes proceedings. The Act on an executive procedure that facilitates the execution of the judgment has been amended. It is also noted that 50% reduction in court fees and that in these alimony matters the parties are exempt from court fees. In this way, the coalition government changed the situation that happened in 1990 because it never paid the state alimony fees until 1990. In the 1990s, any such kind of dispute equal to the trade dispute was leveled by height, and there was also a small court fee. However, here is also what has been said today, speeches as well as legal tariffs, especially in these matters should be adapted. And certainly, the situation is such that such an initiative should also move us to the lawyers precisely because all of these alimony things are essentially for those who are needed and should be released from the wages, or should be ordered by the one who is later to pay that restraint to pay those costs. There are many different situations where the most often sought by abstentions meet. It is not a rare situation for a court ruling to come to fruition, so I do not say that even in reality when it is very difficult to get to work, such ones cancel working relationship just to avoid paying for restraint. However, why did this result in a general flood of non-payment?- I'm sorry. Because it favors him first of all not only working on black so it is difficult to obtain data although I do not think it matters at all in addition to the basic obligation that a parent is healthy and obliged to support children but also to a general social climate because paying, not paying child restraint support, is not something embarrassing. Only recently have the media been sensitizing the public for this problem that it is an absolutely socially unacceptable behavior. We'll often hear the situation where he says so I'll pay for her alimony and society encourages friends, so you won't pay her to go to cafes and get her modified. So, and that's the difference between social worldview, one partner relationship that both parents are something that we need to encourage here so that this situation doesn't come to this point, that both parents are invited to raise children and invited to take care of children. Unfortunately, our moral authorities often worry about having a child, but when it's born it's almost as often a mother left by partners, left behind and forgotten by society and the state, and I guess... There's one message, one different worldview that we're trying to advocate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14985	Thank you very much, colleague. Comrade Ingrid, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14986	Thank you, too. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14987	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14988	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Often words are spoken on the other hand as a false promise. Well, at least I'd be a tax, so she'd say untrue and if it were said on this side, then they'd give us credit for our indiscretion. This is not a false promise, this is the true promise of this Croatian government. It is important to point out, I quote, that in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, 20 million kunas for the Social and Legal Protection Fund for Children Dissolved Parents, Children of Extramarital Communities, are planned for which abstention bonds do not pay. Be assured that what the government has brought will be realized in as short a time as possible, but unfortunately, you attribute something else to us that we are not. And on the other hand, ma'am, unfortunately responsibility, love, fate, and when we have and change the laws for many, it won't mean anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14989	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14990	Mr. President, here I am correcting the inaccuracies of a colleague that the sole concern of a mother is a child born. In several hundred cases and the local self-government bar of my headship helped such mothers, not to say that we increased by more than three hundred places in kindergartens. But I think it's about time we asked our fellow Flight to do a mini sociological study on...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14991	Thanks a lot, buddy. Limit yourself to correcting an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14992	Well, that's what I was going to say, actually, that this fifth-year inspiration syndrome is finally solved after four years of mental abstinence.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14993	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14994	Injure the Rules of Procedure of Article 209, which is what I say and used to be. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] To be used by the Institute to correct an incorrect quote in order not to essentially correct but to worsen the exact allegations. Well, I didn't say that at all. If he uses a replica or some other institutes but is obviously afraid of replicas, then he abuses that institute because of course the reply follows. Therefore, I ask you to take care of it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14995	We'll see in the phonogram. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14996	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I would first answer my colleague Anticevic that this problem is indeed our concern, I think of the Croatian Democratic Community because after all we have heard and what we know I don't think anyone can be indifferent to this issue and therefore I welcome the initiative of these proposals of the Law establishing the State Fund for the Temporary Support of Children for a number of reasons and, above all, for the social and legal protection of children of divorced parents and children from extramarital communities for which abstention bonds do not pay. I have to join all my colleagues and colleagues who have highlighted the weight, sensitivity and concern of supporting children divorced parents and children from decomposed extramarital communities. Statistical data on this issue are sad and devastating and show the level of consciousness, responsibility and humanity of our man and parents who do not pay for restraint, please ask your children after divorce or leaving the extramarital community. Many will say that it is so everywhere in the world but I would say that I would be the proudest and happiest person in the world if I could say that I belong to a people who don't need so much repression to take care of their children. Another common known fact is that it is actually sad and devastating, and that is that a large number of parents in most unfortunately fathers avoid or do not pay at all for the upcoming of their underage children. The avoidance methods we've already heard are amazing and need to be repeated. Like that. avoid employment, constantly change jobs and addresses of dwellings or residences, and even go abroad. In order to avoid confiscation of property on the basis of judgments, property is donated even to children from a new marriage community or relatives, they show less property than real and numerous other ways that a healthy human mind cannot do. A particular problem is the slowness of the courts, which is due to the above mentioned, which is due to too few judges and often due to the lack of law. The child support fee receives only 31% of single parents on a regular basis while 43% of divorced parents and 66% of single mothers receive no alimony at all. According to the state's attorney's office, about 600 parents who do not pay for their children's support will be reported on average every year. But unfortunately, because of all the problems we've been talking about, it's only 1/3 that she gets convicted. Social care centres in 2002 launched 250 child restraint suits in front of courts without feedback on the end of the proceedings. According to the current Family Law, which did not state, in the light of its proposal, that if a parent who, on the basis of a judicial decision or a settlement concluded before the Centre for Social Care, is obliged to contribute to the child's restraint does not fulfil his obligations for more than three months, the Centre for Social Care is obliged to propose a second parent or, under official duty, to take measures to ensure the funds for temporary maintenance until the parent or abstention obligation again begins to carry out his obligation. The Social Care Centres in line with the Family Law in 2003 made 367 decisions on the temporary maintenance of children on extremely poor social and material opportunities. Therefore, the Institute of Temporary Child Restraint exists and is only being carried out for sure not to a sufficient extent and to a sufficient extent. A small number of requests shall be initiated before courts for the refund of paid temporary abstentions, a small number of what they have, because they have parents who receive social assistance themselves and for many they do not have a residence address or are unemployed, and the referent shall assess that the court procedure for the state is too expensive and not effective. Similarly, the current Family Law provides for provisions on the maintenance of children by parents and the circumstances under which they are transferred to other relatives which do not respect the SDP's proposal for a law of the SDP club as a fact. According to the Stepparent Family Law, both grandparents have an obligation to support the child if his parent does not have the funds, however, they must go to a new lawsuit for additional costs and problems for the leaders of the proceedings and the state. Furthermore, social care centres are disabled in legal powers because they can check for their own formally displayed incomes and assets and not for real, which is very common in determining the minimum and not suitable amounts for supporting young children, which is negatively reflected in their material and social security and in general on the overall psychological development of the child. The solution to this problem should be considered in another way, perhaps by establishing a single standard of restraint in accordance with age, average needs and opportunities of the child because the material interest and rights of the child to support should be assessed before the material interest of parents, since parents are obliged to support their children even at the cost of self-restraint. My colleagues and colleagues, at the end of everything, can conclude that the initiative to establish a state fund for temporary child support is a good one, but in order to be able to realise its tasks, it is necessary to implement changes to several laws and to carry out a comprehensive analysis of the problem and I propose that the proposal of the Government that is in the works be made and which will be more broadly and more comprehensively elaborated by that Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14997	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word on this wheel. Dear representative Jelena Pavicic-Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14998	Your Honor, Mr. President, I've only been signed up for it. I'm withdrawing the debate, I'm sorry. I'm withdrawing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u14999	Thank you. Dear representative Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15000	My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. We started today, it seems to me in most cases a good debate about an old well-exploded, important and large social problem. A problem that in terms of changing society and the world is becoming more and more obvious and is especially becoming a bigger problem in Croatia, in a country where we live in a bit of strange conditions in these last 14, 15 years. Nime, because of the poor functioning of the judiciary, almost our citizens began to mean that their obligations were not even under the law, and even when they were referring to their own children and family, that no one would be sanctioned, even if there were already regulations and laws. And just so it's simple, it's preferable to decide not to carry out its obligations rather than to perform them neatly. The problem is really big and broad and that is why I am, not angry but sad, which is still in this House, discussing this problem that we can have different opinions about, and I am starting to debate some kind of world-class, because apparently there are different world-famouss that exist in society, but I don't know what kind of world-class mirrors that are supposed to be the benchmark of values in this House, at least when we talk about political options, and then allegedly under these world-controlled options, there is one side, taking care of children, of family, and the other side is completely uninterested, although in fact this other side is driving the initiative and asking that the problem that exists and which is existing some additional measures, some new instruments do not eliminate but at least weaken and reduces. And which one is it, and what kind of light is that? I have to admit that I don't understand anything, but the only thing I can understand is that it's some kind of, I suppose, HDZ worldview, but I don't understand at the time, because whether it's a worldview that he's been practicing towards his child who's already become a highly respected and well-known HDZ gentleman, Mr. Chachi, who's been covering up for 18 years with the help of even the prime minister, covering up his own address, hiding his existence, not fulfilling or refusing to perform judicial obligations, pressing, blackmailing his child's mother all with the aim of avoiding his parental obligation. Is it possible that this world view that we're talking about and why it's supposed to be, is preparing a law in the government, so I don't even know what's waiting for me, is waiting for a ministry, one ministry is waiting for the other ministry and institutions that belong to another ministry? Is this the worldview that makes me or some of us here today obstruct a good initiative that probably won't get into another reading? I can respect the remarks even of those that come in the government's opinion, let them be immaterial, but let them really stand but what will be the consequence of all this? That one serious problem will be delayed again in its resolution. I must admit that the funniest ones here today are: “Well, you could have brought it. My colleague Dragica Zgrebec said: “Yes, these are all the laws that have been prepared, these are all the laws or measures that have been part of one project.” A comprehensive analysis which, otherwise, in a very good debate, colleague Brnadić mentioned was made. She's standing there, I don't know which ministry anymore because it's a law-broken ministry, it's out of jurisdiction, and the problem is that no one's using it today or delaying it, its use. There is indeed danger and fear. Not from, at least not me, from giving up some promises. I don't care about political promises. Especially political promises coming from the HDZ order. I am interested in what we and how quickly we can do, and at this point we can approach the concreteisation of the solution or mitigation of this problem. There isn't and there's no need to make excuses. If there is a political will, if there is a defined priority, and we have defined it in, by making a budget, by the minimum means, but enough to go, then no excuse should be asked anymore but simply to cut, to decide on how to conduct the debate, to move, to pass the law and to start the fund. We'll see what they'll be like, what the results will be. They do not have to be ideal, but it is a proposal based on some of the experiences that already exist. It is that these solutions or modified solutions but certainly solutions that involve one fund that will compensate for parental irresponsibility and ensure normal growth and support of every child and one who has not been lucky enough to live with both parents, which will correct the situation and mitigate the problem that is getting bigger and bigger every day in Croatia. And certainly if our judiciary were to work, if there was a political practice in this country that would be consistent with the non-compliance of those who do not respect the law, then perhaps this problem would be less and the need to adopt another repressive instrument compared to irresponsible parents less. However, cases of abstention, obstruction of court proceedings and even execution of judicial judgments are numerous and many of us who experience this problem as serious feel a little bit and impotent and therefore use the Parliament, use this instrument, use the possibility of passing another law as something that should facilitate the position of children, facilitate the position of the parent, who is the only one left to worry about restraint. Unfortunately, these are mostly mothers who should eliminate or reduce the lack of respect for the law by our citizens. And let me get this straight. Nothing's a problem. All the objections to this Law have come well. I can contribute to better quality of the law if there is political will. We'll see about that very soon. We'll see now that next week if that's how we meet the Budget and then all excuses will most likely fall into the water.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15001	Thank you very much, colleague Antunović. Corrections to incorrect allegations. First honorary colleague Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15002	Dear Mr Vice President, I would like to correct an incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague who, under the quotes of the HDZ worldview, literally said: that Mr. Cacia, I quote: "even with the help of the Prime Minister, avoided the obligation to pay for the maintenance of an 18-year-old child and that he was pressuring himself" and so on "on, on the family". It's just not true, it's actually not true. I intervened in the sense of correcting the allegations because in this way one serious debate still comes down to one inappropriate level of daily political accounting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15003	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague, Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15004	Well, here's the thing, although my colleague corrected the incorrect allegations that I wanted to make, I'm still going to say that the distinguished representative said that the gentleman in question, with the help of the Prime Minister, had avoided paying his dues. I think it's really a lie. Knowing the president's personality and value, it's clear to everyone that it doesn't fit the truth. And as far as the world horizon is concerned, I think that the Croatian Democratic Community is also clearly one of the democratic parties where the family is at the heart of its interest and events, and in the middle of the family is a child and will certainly know how to take care of this most sensitive group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15005	My colleague byte, the correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15006	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, several times the untruth of a man leaves a different mark, so I, too, will make the same inaccuracy as my colleague Antičević, correct that Mr. Cacia
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15007	My colleague Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15008	Antunovic, I apologize. That Mr. Cacia, with the help of the prime minister, avoided obligations and pressured the family, is not only incorrect because Mr. President of the Croatian Government Dr. Ivo Sanader, as soon as he found out about some of these actions, took action and replaced Mr. Cacci as opposed to some of the other parties that had been covered up by many bad deeds, and Ms. Antunovic was the defence minister whose deputy he was and did not take any action for his term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15009	Thank you. One replica. Dear colleague Trakostane. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15010	Yes, Mr. Vice President, I've answered the line knowing that the lady can answer me but more than what she said, I don't think she has anything to add. So motivated by the declaration of love for HDZ again, even by the non-verbal speech of the body that I will not say the English name, when with my hands on my back is keenly looking, so here's the thing in our part, my part of the HDZ again said what it thinks about HDZ, I still have to answer it so that Croatian democratic, and she fell into the trap defending that law, so calmly speaking about it, but she gave a lecture to the political party about behavior, and seeing us in HDZ as she thinks we are, and not as we really are, and as the public sees us anyway. So I'd just say that in HDZ, I'll say it again, we're no reverse party or... or worldly reverse than we really think that family is the best mode of life in today's Croatian society and we think that we are aware of all changes and moderations and opportunities for people to have different forms of co-existence and life and child rearing is nevertheless a family, a healthy family the foundation of a healthy society and so we would like to see Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So all of our efforts will be that those who have the right to exercise them, and the fact is that human rights, the right of a small man to live and have therefore secured material resources. And that's the essence of these laws, I suppose, of your efforts. And if we're already talking about individual cases, I'm sorry that this famous and famous case of Cacia was constantly pulled out of the drawer, and I guess then he's a "incontinuity" problem for 18 years and it's very interesting why he got away with 2004 as a problem for all the problems of the Croatian state and I don't think he really did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15011	Thank you. A reply to the replica of a respected colleague, Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15012	Well, there are small and big people like we just heard before, so it's probably one of the differences between us. Some think that there are small and large, and we think that they should become people with equal chances, people with equal rights, people to whom laws will apply equally, and there is actually the most important difference between us and them, between us who think about equal chances, who talk about partnership, parenting and those who hypocritically advocate family and even when in the families of young women and children but it's family and then it's something sacred and untouchable. Recently, a term of body language came into politics, and it seems to me that it was transmitted from the towers and the media and here to the Parliament, so it seems to me that those who talk about it should deal with the body language and the person who placed that term and as well as the president of the government, who really protected not only the poor parent, the irresponsible parent who avoided his duty, will probably continue to do so, Mr. Chachi, but also helped this Mr. Chachia to get out of all this because he did not learn it from the papers. He knew it all. As it was known in the ministry and as it is a lie and a lie and an attempt to trick me as an ex-minister, he attributed to the impudence and insolence of the HDZ, who, as a bad officer who deserved to be fired and fired, placed himself in the shade of an unscheduled officer. The poor man has been relieved of his duties as assistant, but he still receives his salary, walking around the city arranged, arranged and most likely after a one-time payment of the debt for 18 years will not...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15013	Time. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Byte, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15014	Dear Mr. President, a respected colleague of the Croatian Parliament has injured several articles of the Rules of Procedure in particular, not to mention the subject, insulting not only the Croatian Democratic Community, members and deputies in this House but also the Croatian Government amputating us to speak hypocritically about the family, but I think that this is at least worth the notice because no one, we do not take the right to have any of the representatives in this Croatian Parliament speaking in person about something not particularly about a family whose protection in the Constitution and in the articles of the Constitution the family is under the special protection of the Croatian State and we believe that it has been inappropriately and inappropriately in the Croatian Assembly that the colleagues spoke insulting to all of us representatives of the Croatian Democratic community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15015	Thank you very much. A colleague of Šolić's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15016	Mr. Vice President, I was about to say what my colleague said earlier. 210th article was injured by the Rules of Procedure, but I will say: Mr. Vice President has really overstepped all the measures in this House of Highs to always find one of the representatives on the left and to end his debate with a hate speech. Let's show one democracy, one serious piece of work in this House, and I think now in this replica, the response to the replica of MP Antunovic deserves a warning. Thank you very much and please don't allow such a hate speech anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15017	You see, respected colleagues, if I were to stick to the Rules of Procedure, I would now have to tell you a warning because you said that Article 210 was injured and Article 210 said that the speaker had to stick to the topic in his speech. My colleague spoke, please, I'm not talking about you, Comrade Byte. counterpart Antunovic responded to the replica of how she felt she had been called. And in such a situation there is no injury, a speech about the violation of Article 210, and in this respect you have again misused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, and whoever calls for correction of an incorrect assumption or the abuse of the Rules of Procedure may start to talk about something else, of course, could get a warning. So I'm just saying that there's a very nice line of demarcation around business provisions and I'm asking you not to reach lightly for those parts. I have to say that some grades and attitudes that have been heard may not have to say so, but that doesn't mean that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. This should be answered in the way she responded with a replica. Here are colleagues of the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15018	Mr. Vice President and your answer, that is, by interpreting the whole situation, you have actually avoided the essence, you have avoided a conversation about giving a warning...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15019	Tell your colleague where I hurt...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15020	214 you've hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15021	That's not true. Article 214 has not been injured, and I am obliged to give an explanation under Article 209 and I have given an explanation, and my colleague Solic is wrong when she claimed that Article 210 was injured. Rules of Procedure. You read Article 210 and you will see that he is talking about something else. Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It's my dear fellow Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15022	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We obviously have a problem in this society. What's the name of that problem? Unresponsible parenting, non-payment in court of adjudicated alimony. How big is that problem? Huge, 69% of those who should pay these alimony do not do so despite court decisions. Whose problem is that? First of all, the problem of children, those children who have the right to be held back and not abstained, since their parents do not contribute to their restraint. And now we have a question. Whether or not we're going to solve this problem, if we're going to even see if it's a problem and we're going to solve it, or if we're going to refuse to talk about it at all as a problem. It is interesting how the Croatian government acts, at the same time admits the problem and does not recognise it, and she says in her explanation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers it necessary to point out that it has prepared a draft law on a temporary child restraint fund that will be referred to the parliamentary procedure in a short time. So the government obviously acknowledges that there is a problem and that it should be solved, and secondly in the same explanation, the same government says: Family law is a detailed procedure for determining restraints, measures to ensure restraint and enforcement itself. In that sentence, the government says there's no problem, so there's Family Law, there's I.D., so now there's gonna be some new law like the one that proposed by the SDP. This confused, vague view of the government is certainly not the basis on which a serious debate could be held because we do not know what the Government is saying, whether it admits it or the problem does not admit it. Much was heard here in the debate on this bill and that the number of single-parent families is growing, and that these measures will not solve an increase in that number and will not increase the discipline of payments and, as counterpart Rados said, will even discourage those who need to pay child support. They're not the subject of this law. This law does not address the issue of single - parent families, their reduction or their increase. This law protects the rights of a child. The child has the right to be restrained and this law protects his right. Why? Why is the law, why are we proposing a law that protects the right of a child? Well, because the irresponsible parents were, there are, and there will be. There are, there are, and there will be. Here, I didn't mean it, but I can see that it's particularly annoying for some of us, so we're going to repeat the truth about one such parent. You see, Mr. Chachia has not paid an alimony that the court has ordered him to do for 18 years. 18 years, not 18 months, 18 years. What could a mother do? She couldn't find him, the court couldn't find him. Interestingly the only man who could find him is Mr. Sanader. He immediately found him to be his security guard in the campaign and then to be his assistant minister. There, no one else, no court, no mother, no one but Sanader found him. What can the mother of such an irresponsible parent do? [[And who knows, knows.]] What can she do? She can't do anything. That's why we're proposing the law because who can? The state's fine. The state can charge for it. 'Cause, I'm sorry, if he can charge his taxes, he can force himself to collect an alimony he didn't pay. Yeah, if he wants to deal with it. And that's what this is about. Do we now agree that the state is dealing with this because we think we should deal with it or not? Because that is the purpose of this law, so take care of the child and take care of him immediately because he needs that money right away. He needs it tomorrow. He needs it next month. You see, not accepting this legal proposal is encouraging irresponsible behavior. That's one message that irresponsible parents say, hey, listen, what can we do for you? As parliamentary majority, we won't accept this, that the state is paying for you, so you are, as you know by now, 70 percent. You, Chachia, what if he could've been the assistant minister, you'd be too if you didn't pay. I don't understand why cynicism. I really don't understand why he's hypocritical. And we accept the initiative, but we don't accept the laws. We've secured 20 million in our budget, but we're not paying them off. We have our own law, but we don't send it to the Parliament. So what's that for? I really don't understand it. Look, the government doesn't have to protect children's rights. It's a matter of political will, whether the government wants it or not. The government doesn't have to apologize because they won't. The government says clearly, we don't want people. We won't. We don't care. Let mothers worry about themselves as long as they do, so they can charge themselves as they know, and we won't deal with it. Well, that's what the government is right about, so why apologize? But please, while he's already apologizing, while he's looking for excuses, it's for you to expect these apologies to be a little better than the ones the government has offered. From protecting the bank's secret. It's an excuse the government is offering why it doesn't accept this because it needs to be protected by a bank secret. So listen, if we protect the bank's secret more than the child's right, no one will pay child support than those who don't want to pay. Well, everyone will open a bank account and call for a bank secret. So what does the government offer? It's her solution to this problem, that the kids don't have the money to keep, the government will protect the bank's secret. Well, you'd better not have written anything, so you haven't given any explanation for the rejection. It would be better than to embarrass yourself with protecting a bank secret more than the right of a child. We'll vote on this tomorrow. We'll have a debate today. We'll vote tomorrow. How who? Someone will support this legal proposal and we will refuse to send a message to each other. What message? Mothers who don't get alimony because irresponsible fathers don't pay them off. You'll send them a message, to them. Children who don't support their parents, and you'd have to send them a message, too. Don't hope you'll be protected. Not while there's a majority like this in this House. You'll stay in the same status you've been in so far. So it's going to be a message that you're going to send with this vote tomorrow because what this one is, you don't accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15023	Thank you very much, fellow Stazic. First injure of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15024	Mr. Vice President. The Rules of Procedure were injured in Article 214 of the moment when you did not respond after Mr Stazic quoted the views of the Croatian Democratic Community which were brought here today in the debate and, under the proposal of this law, in fact, declared those same views hypocritical. I ask you to protect the dignity of the advocate who speaks in this House, and also to protect the dignity of this House. Because if you allow such a discussion to take place in the future, then indeed, the question of where we will come into our discussions and how we will address one another. That's really a question, and I'm asking you to follow the Rules of Procedure. You have a Rules of Procedure, 214, give notice to a representative who insults the dignity of other MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15025	I didn't realize that's how my colleague Stazic talked about these issues. Please, buddy, don't throw it out of order. ... No, no, it doesn't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You yourself made a warning in the way you acted. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bucan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15026	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I'll do it again. Article 214(5) and (6) have been injured. "Advocacy is given a warning if it demeans other MPs and, by its conduct, deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly." I tell you and repeat, like my colleague Matusic, the words "cynicism" and "hypocymers" were used, and Mr. Stazic turned to this side, and fellow Matusic, in his own time, resented it when he used one word and turned to the opposite side. I'm asking you for equality in giving notices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15027	A colleague, Stazic, spoke about concrete legal proposals and legal initiatives. And why some came or didn't come to congregation procedure. He expressed his view, his opinion, and said that it was a hypocritical way of acting. And he did not insult individual MPs, nor did he disrespect other MPs with his conduct. I ask you, fellow Members, carefully study the Rules of Procedure and in this respect I seek to adhere to the same criteria for all MPs in this House when I chair. Now we're moving on to correcting incorrect allegations. Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15028	Mr. Vice President, the honourable representative said in his presentation next. The government, in its opinion, has found that there is no problem in the institution of restraint. Literally so, it is simply not true, the government has tried, in its opinion, the truth in the short lines to explain the Institute of Family Restraint which is indeed a complex institute, and the Institute which is absolutely certainly to be found in that part of Croatian legislation, and today we are discussing only one segment of the Institute when difficulties arise in terms of paying fees or financial fees for self-restraint. That's the first one. Secondly, an esteemed colleague literally said the following, again in fact, and in the context of his exposure to the non-acceptation of this bill, encouraging irresponsible behaviour, not accepting a solution to this Law indeed is and cannot be an incentive for any irresponsible behaviour of parents in this segment, and especially not in terms of the content of all these discussions that we have had the opportunity to hear. So this is not about the apriorial rejection of the proposal but about finding appropriate solutions. If an esteemed colleague, and it's become the same practice, allow me just one more sentence, report with a record that he's hurt Business, he's not hurt, so let me say it, I've corrected another incorrect assumption that not accepting this law is an incentive for irresponsible behavior, because it really...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15029	Thank you very much for correcting the incorrect quote. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15030	Article 209 which accepts or does not accept one law for one representative means it is a matter of interpretation and not of fact, therefore...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15031	Dear colleague Stazic was not injured in Article 209. The Rules of Procedure, for the simple reason that counterpart Tomljanovic corrected the claim or fact that you said not to accept this law was to cause irresponsible behaviour, which he corrected and in this respect completely corrected the incorrect allegation. Thank you very much, dear colleague. Correction of the incorrect alleged honest colleague Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15032	I will correct the exact quote that Mr. Stazic should give to his parents, and first he said we were fighting in the Law on the Rights of Children, and now it's about parents, where he said we should not pay. This is totally incorrect since court rulings are ordered to be paid and I will not say how bad and tenorous and incorrect it is when he said that if the assistant minister is systematically breaking the law and now that you have already said that it has to be spoken specifically about the bill, tell me in which article of the law of either one of these mentions Stipe Chachi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15033	Dear colleagues, I must now say that you have not corrected the incorrect allegations again. The first message given by the text of the Law, etc., is not fixed but incorrectly alleged. I know fellow Members, then correct the incorrect allegations you have an outstanding example of a colleague of Tomljanović who uses the Institute to correct the incorrect allegations and executes his Business and responsibilities and the right to take advantage of them every time. My colleague, it's like my chairman to give an explanation after this sort of thing. Correction of the incorrect quote, dear colleague Roksandić, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15034	Thank you, Mr. President, I must correct Mr. Stazic, who told Mr. Cacchi for 18 years, no one could find him, not a court or a mother, but Mr. Sanader found him, I apologize for using his name and last name, I don't think they should be used in our discussions. The correct assumption is true that Mr. Cacia was an employee of the Ministry of Defence, and it is strange that then really no one could find him until 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15035	Thank you very much for correcting the incorrect quote, we continue the debate. It's time for a respected colleague, Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15036	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The fact is that the family in Croatia still retains a lot of traditional features, and that compared with most of the European countries, the family structure is relatively slow to change. However, there is also a fact that statistics suggest that today in Croatia every fifth marriage is falling apart. So in Croatia we have a category of single parents, meaning parents who independently have no other parents taking care of their child or their children. Therefore, there is also a way that Croatia is following the trend of Western developed countries, although it is slow but still following them. The reason for this category of single parents can be not only the divorce of marriage but also the death of another parent or an extramarital pregnancy. Data in Croatia show a trend in the growth of children living in single-parent families, and research shows that single-parent families are much more common than whole families, much more often facing the phenomenon of poverty. So in such families, there's talk of feminizing poverty. For what? In fact, since women, unlike men, invest much of their time not only in their compulsory work but also in raising children and home jobs, they remain far less likely to have additional work that would contribute to additional resources. We also know that women today on the labour market are discriminated against, they find work harder than men, and when they find it, then their wages for the same work are somewhat lower, so the same work is somewhat lower than when it's about men. The rate of poor children in single - parent families is 4 times higher than those in whole families. This showed the results of research commissioned by the State Institute for the Protection of Family and Motherhood and Youth, and these also show that single - parent families live on significantly more difficult material opportunities than parents. Such a condition affects children who remain deprived of many of the benefits that their peers enjoy. For example, they cannot afford different free activities, which are not a luxury, but are very much a need at today’s level of society’s development, such as learning foreign languages, different information courses, sports, etc. There is no doubt that this poor material condition of single - parent families contributes significantly to the non-payment of alimony. In fact, the study already mentioned shows that the child support fee is regularly paid to only 31% of single parents, while 43% of divorced parents and 66% of single mothers are not receiving alimony at all. It's facts we can't close our eyes to, it's everyday life, it's those sad life stories that have been talked about today. It is these facts that encouraged us at the SDP Representatives' Club to propose the adoption of the Law on the State Fund for Child Support. In the view of the Government, which proposes not to accept the proposal of this Law among other things, Col. Stazic has already quoted and I will not quote this paragraph, the claim that this is actually regulated by the Family Law, and beyond that, the Family Law also writes provisions on the maintenance of children's child restraints by parents and the circumstances under which it is passed on to other relatives, which does not respect the bill as a legal fact. However, from what is already already, which we are already having a lot of discussion about today, it disproves, i.e. the fact that it is regulated by family law, but that it actually does not work properly and how the existing law regulates it. Such a situation, among other things, is due to the long-term and ineffectiveness of court proceedings, the unemployment of parents who are obliged to pay child support or his unknown residence. The aim of this law is to alleviate the difficult material position of single parents in caring for children or children for whom child support is not paid. The establishment of a State Fund for Child Support would significantly eliminate the problems resulting from the situation described. By adopting this law, the state would assume the obligation to compensate for the alimony and would assume the right and the duty to claim those funds through the State Support Fund. We all know how lengthy the trial is, and that they also cost the party the process, and they cost quite a lot because they also have to pay different fees, fees, fees, the costs of hiring lawyers, etc. Single parents often cannot afford it, so they often give up their rights. The proposal for this law transfers the claim to the fund, in fact, the Fund stands in relation to the abstention obligation in the position of the child as a believer. Furthermore, the law proposes to exempt the fund from payment procedures from the payment of court fees as well as fees. This makes it much easier for single parents to put themselves in a difficult enough position. It is unquestionable that the family is the foundation of society. Therefore, any society, or state, should be in the interest of the family whether it is whole or not developing and functioning normally. Let us not forget that in families, children are raised who today, tomorrow, will become responsible adults who by their work, knowledge, and ability will contribute to the development and progress of both society and state. In order to achieve this completely and fully, it is necessary to ensure normal and healthy adulthood, unburdened by various traumas that leave lasting consequences on their psyche. This assembly often publicly expressed concern for family, motherhood, for improving the demographic picture of Croatia, etc. We heard that from both government representatives and representatives of the majority party in the Parliament. That is why it is truly incomprehensible for the government and the ruling party to so lightly reject all proposals for a law whose adoption as a consequence would have improved the quality of life of citizens of this country, but also for individual groups to which certain laws are targeted. It can't be an excuse to refuse to pass this law that we heard from the HDZ Club that this is another law for which the adoption of a will in the past term, or in the past government, but it has been transferred to the burden of this government. Well, I think it's really finally time to stop with the bad practice of discovering, the constant discovery of hot water, so every new government and Priory rejects everything that's already been prepared for adoption, because they think life starts with the design of that government. This is how precious time is wasted, unnecessary costs are created, as the administration in certain ministries is once again burdened and employed with jobs that are actually done in some ways. And life goes on, it doesn't stop, it runs without interruptions, it lives every day, regardless of the elections that eventually bring about changes in the government and the governing structure. Because of the government's behaviour and the ruling party in the parliament, I cannot help but feel that there are many times the concerns for individuals are expressed, yet I will not use the word hypocritical, yet only declarative, and not real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15037	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It's next, dear colleague Nikola Uljanovic. Here you go. Uljanic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15038	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Undoubtedly, the rights of a child to support are something we don't really need to discuss here at all, something that involves the very nature of things. It is also doubtless that the destruction of the classical family in our country, and throughout the world, has taken such an extent that the state did not want it to be liberal or it does not have to interfere with its instruments in the simple protection of those who alone cannot help in this case children who are not guilty of anything. and it is also certain that explaining such a fund helped immediately and directly to a large number of children whom irresponsible parents do not want to help even the most direct, in fact, simplest way financially. But this text of these two laws as we got it before us, I'm afraid another way is actually to cover the government's failure to function further in regulation and socialization of the problem. Already in the assessment of the situation, the promoters say, the results of the survey we have heard here have shown devastating data that only 31% of single parents receive the child support fee, the causes of such a situation are affected by the long-term and ineffectiveness of court proceedings and some other resolutions. In the discussion, we heard that the levers of the rule of law don't work. Are we quite certain that another lever will be pampered with on this legal machine that should take care of the powerless that another lever will yield results, and these have not produced results? We heard in the discussion that this is about people who cheat, who cheat on their children, who cheat on the state, who hide, who invent, perform various kinds of marifetteluks to avoid some of their basic obligations that I can't even think about as obligations that I think about as a right, so to take care of my child. These people cheat, don't respect the laws that exist, which are in some segments and quite restrictive. And there are mechanisms of state that know how to enforce laws. If you commit a traffic violation, and you get caught by an accident, and the judge gives you a sentence, you don't pay it, the state will find a way to find you, if he doesn't take your money, he'll put you in jail for a few days. The state has mechanisms. These mechanisms are force and repression. Every law, every authority must have that element of beating next to the element of the carrot. So, I'm afraid that the adoption of this law in this text, in this form and the establishment of a fund without a clear limit, would be granted the right to assistance from the Fund when all repressive measures against those who did not support their children were taken, so that would lead to a situation in which they would encourage those who do not pay and encourage others to do the same. On the other hand, the logic of large numbers if repressive measures were not applied, the situation would be that the money simply wouldn't be enough, and that what the children could get would again be reduced to the level of some sort of symbolism at which they wanted to acknowledge it or not a child's supplement today that makes no sense as much sense today. Accordingly, it should be made clear in the law that the State, therefore, will take all repressive measures first to enable direct financing of child restraint. When this does not work, therefore, when this parent really cannot or is otherwise punished by the state, then there should be a element of socialization and a element of help, social assistance for those who help themselves. Accordingly, I advocate that this law proceeds in a second reading process. I think it should definitely remove a provision whereby the fund in some cases can simply write off debts that the unconscious parent may have according to that fund. If debt cannot be written off in any way such debts may be prolongable, the state may be able to lend someone but the state cannot forgive someone for the fact that he did not care about his child for whatever reason. Once again, I think it is essential to apply the laws we have but to apply them in both court and any other practice. When we do this the next leverage of a state like this bill and the establishment of a fund can become effective. Until then, there'll be nothing but a mess in the mechanism.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15039	Thank you very much, dear colleague. It's my dear colleague Lesar's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak on this subject. It's my dear colleague Kavrljevic's turn. Here you go, Comrade Kavljevic!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15040	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues! I would continue on that part of the assessment of the situation where my colleague Vuljanic stopped and this is the causes of such a situation particularly affected by the long-term and ineffectiveness of court proceedings. This is what we discussed on the Committee on Gender Equality, and then we had several lawyers who pointed out this as a basic problem, not only of judicial proceedings but of all those laws that concern the Family Law, that is, the Law on Social Care, that is, the Law on Consummation. None of these laws are implemented and law enforcement we know it has nothing to do with this fund that we're going to set up because if we start this fund it'll be just another link, another one I'm afraid of brakes in slowing down these court proceedings. Then, in this emphasis, it also stands out as the biggest problem of unknown residence, and here, Col. Stazic pointed out as a problem for an unknown residence and as one cannot find one. So I wonder if we in this Croatia, whether we were raised in some legion of foreigners or in what I don't know, so we learned to hide so well that 30 thousand police officers we have in Croatia can't find one of us. Both of them, and the court processes and the inability to find a debtor just show the inefficient functioning of the state, and I'm afraid that this fund will be another link to the failure of the state. And why is that? Because we already have it settled in laws we don't enforce. We have the Social Care Act, from which I'm going to quote certain parts, and that's the responsibility of the Social Care Center, where I'm going to name only some who are directly concerned by those who are most vulnerable and also about the assessment of the situation, say that single mothers account for 84% of the social assistance users. So if they already account for 84% of the welfare centre, then why wouldn't those welfare centres do the job they're legally set up for, and that's under one counseling, under two assists in overcoming special difficulties, under three maintenance aids, under four support for settlement of housing costs, under five single aids, and not to go further to eleven other aids. Mr. Vice President, would you mind taking the bell in your hand and calming the assembly down a little bit?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15041	There you go, right there.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15042	Thank you. So if we already have welfare centres that are legally in charge of something like that, and that's counseling, then why don't we extend the jurisdiction of the welfare center and give them legal representation, so let them push out everything single mothers or single parents can't do on their own. Let's increase their powers. And here, the question of violation of child rights is often mentioned. Right, it's a violation of child rights and I agree completely. However, gentlemen, we have established a child's attorney. We have a lawyer for the children and she can, by official duty, not by phone sitting in the office and talking, giving instructions but by official duty, initiate a procedure on behalf of every child that is damaged. So we have instruments, we have laws, we have repressive measures but we don't implement them. If that lawyer needs to be strengthened, then let's strengthen those powers. Let's give her what she doesn't have and what interferes with her work to protect her child's rights. I believe that we have all the laws and that we can regulate all of this with existing laws, we just need to enforce them. By bringing such a fund, they would then withdraw a whole series of such funds that should be established because we know what situation we have in the whole economy and we know how many non-payments are in various sectors and many such funds should be set up. Let us make sure that those laws we have are implemented and we make sure that those institutions that have to do their jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15043	Thanks a lot, buddy. Replica, dear colleague of the Koreans. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15044	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I can agree with you that perhaps some should be given greater authority or that there are laws in this country that unfortunately are not implemented and that the state is inefficient. However, with what you've been saying about what social care centres should do, I'm afraid not that they should be increased by the number of employees because in a large number of social care centres and now there is a lack of expert staff. They should have an additional number of lawyers and all those who can do something, and I'm afraid that that little social cake they get in this country, too, unfortunately, we agree that social opportunities are such and the economic situation in the country so that they can't be singled out anymore, but in that way that little money would also be needed for the others and that it's more difficult to protect than by setting up one of these funds to achieve the opposite effect. It's the same thing with the child's attorney. We are usually when we talk about the state budget, we are not so broad-handed that we spend more money on such needs. We also know that both the civil defender and the Ombudsman have a limited number of employees, that they have relatively low incomes with which they could do something. In this way, the founding of the Fund would still encourage the state itself to be more effective because the state has stronger mechanisms to charge someone money than this procedure, especially at the Social Labour Centre. That's why I think it's a better solution this time of year to build a fund like this because the state is simply going to have to become more efficient. Unfortunately, the most unprotected ones have a hard time getting to their rights, and I'm afraid that if the social work centres did that, we'd go to another extreme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15045	Thank you. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15046	I appreciate this all you said, but I don't agree with much of it for the simple reason, if that's what you say, the state hasn't singled out enough for a child counsel, let's get rid of it. Then what do we need her for if she can't protect the rights of the child? We set up to protect the rights of the child. And social care centres have infrastructure, they have an entire network that already exists. And now we're centralizing the funds and we're doing everything from Zagreb. We don't allow those who already work in the field, where only a lawyer should possibly be hired to protect such mothers and such single fathers, where only a lawyer should be hired where we already have a network. We now want to centralise everything in Zagreb and that one mother from Našica come to Zagreb to be protected, I do not consider it a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15047	Thank you, dear colleague Kapraljevic. We're continuing the debate. There's a respected colleague, Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15048	Thank you, I must say I've heard a lot of things, with a good diet and I agree, but unfortunately unlike most of you, I personally had the opportunity to use the benefits of our legal system. And I can fully understand why you're sensitive to the name of a gentleman I won't mention and he hasn't paid child support in 18 years. We mention him precisely because he became a synonym for all the irresponsible majority of his fathers, although there are mothers who feel that they are divorced not only by their mate on the day of their divorce, but also by their children. These same children who, even after divorce, walk like their fathers, have their blue eyes, brown hair, whose veins still flow their blood. But the woman is no longer a wife, she becomes a SHE, with a capital letter, she is a suspicious morale because she dared leave a marriage that existed only in form and not content. There's been a lot of stories about the world's horizons, and I don't really think that's how we differ on some of the issues. Most of us get married thinking they'll end up living happily ever after. However, life has its own logic, love disappears, you find that your loved ones burn pink glasses something different from what you thought, discover that there may be another woman or others, that your loved ones love an excessive cup, that they have a habit of breaking down a series of your Croatian stairs, that you very often encounter parts of your furniture because you are very, very clumsy in marriage and when one day after all these troubles and hardships are enough for you to go through a painful calming, and equally painful debates in court where you turn your womb in front of people who don't care and don't care about anything and decide about your fate. You go through all this, you get your kids, whether you're a man or a woman, and you go into a new life, very often without an apartment, with a small salary, and without someone in the family to protect you because it's not popular in this society. Our mothers were raised so that no matter how bad marriage is, no love, no understanding, no respect, no friendship, that in the name of those same children you gave birth, it must endure and endure, and they don't usually understand you. When you're on your own, the person you gave birth to those children washes their hands like Pontius Pilate. And our Catholic education is falling, behold wonders where. The ones we all swear to. The kids. They are both the first problem, both the first and the basic preoccupation of this society because its future, we personally swear in them, many truly thinking that they are doing their children a favor remain in such bad marriages but they are wrong. I think it's much more honest and braver to get a child out of a sick, not a natural situation and protect him. That's the difference. We are for marriage, but hello, partner relations always. Even after the debate because we believe that children deserve to have both parents and father and mother. Physically not living under the same roof does not necessarily mean that they do not have and does not mean that they have no rights and obligations toward their children. They do! Even more! The experience of a marriage debate is as traumatic as the death of a close person, loss of a job, or participation in an adult war. Then let's ask ourselves, gentlemen, what must that mean to the children? We adults had a chance, we chose and we chose, so we're wrong and we're paying for our mistakes. But what are the kids doing here? So the mistake is ours, they weren't asked for anything, they weren't involved in the divorce process, in any way they're not responsible or guilty, but they're the weakest and the weakest. So how long will we be a society that will have more feelings and sensitivity for those who don't respect the law because not paying child support is a disregard for the law than those who are weak and need it? If we have to respect the banking secret now, gentlemen, we change the law, I think our children deserve it. You don't speak here in this proposal, not in a single letter about people who aren't really able to do it, but they can't fulfill their obligations, it's about those who can and don't want to. I wish there was a climate in this society that would condemn such behavior, where it would be shameful, dishonest and unfair to treat someone in this way what should be his most valuable treatment. And I disagree with those who say that the state should not interfere with the family, rather in this case yes. For my people, let us be fair to ourselves and open. The legal system doesn't work, we're doing it here in this assembly many times heard it and it's a fact that you don't have to close your eyes to. So if that's how we do something like that that will bridge that period until the legal system really works out as it should. I agree there are laws, but do you know how many half-written and illiterate women are in a situation to decide on this difficult step? How many doors do you need to open, how many papers to fill in for you to get and release from paying the fees. And it exists as a possibility. But a large number of women don't know it, and even if she finds out she doesn't know how to do it. Paying lawyers becomes an increasingly expensive sport in this country. And besides, I expect that the Croatian state is stronger than the individual, than each woman individually. And that he has the right to protect those who are truly the weakest and most needed. And they're children. And if we really truly believe in something and really think about what we're saying then let's show it in action. Gentlemen on the other hand, who have prejudices, perhaps in light of the world's horizons, I can say that he knows very well that there are sins and sins of inaction. If you're in a position to help, and don't do it when it comes to being this weak, it's really a sin. You cannot expect anything else from irresponsible fathers who have shown that they have no love for their children. But I expect this government to be far more responsible and sensitive than such fathers, so please show it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15049	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear colleague Zdenka Babic-Petricevic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15050	Mr. Vice President, I'm going to quote a colleague when she told her colleagues on the other side who are prejudiced and re-calling our worldview about family values. I beg you don't say what isn't said. On this side nobody said, I speak for sure, and that's what my colleagues said on this side and on the other side. We show responsibility to children, to those who are powerless. You said yourself that they are more powerless than the state and all of us are adults, but in such a way calling out what is not said is not at least nice and be sure and you said this: in every divorce, the child is the biggest victim, and every fate cannot be even legal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15051	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues are scheduled to take a break until 3:00. At 3:00, we'll continue the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15052	... A session. [[Home is not saved.]] The word has a representative, Mr. Mato Arlovic, vice president of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15053	Mr. Vice President, respected colleagues and colleagues, the issue of child restraint is an extremely important issue, it has its own moral and legal and economic and social and psychosocial and cultural and every other dimension because it is not only the greatest and most significant good community of society and the protected good social community but ultimately about the human being that needs to have in its development all these dimensions and possibilities to be realized, only confirms as a man who develops and educates and raises and lives. And in such a situation, it would almost be unnecessary to discuss, in fact, the need to pass this law. It is necessary to discuss whether children have adequate social and any other care they provide, does not interfere with anyone's economic, social, cultural, educational, political, moral legal education and education, training. In this respect, there is enough minority constitutional provision in Articles 62 and 63 where it is said that the state protects motherhood, children and youth and creates social, cultural, educational and other conditions promoting the right to a decent life. Then parents are obliged to raise, support, and educate their children and have the right and freedom to decide independently about child rearing. Of course, when observing this duty from that aspect, it is quite certain that the exercise of these duties by the State at the same time expresses its special interest in the way it maintains and cares about the development of a child as with another dimension is a question of achieving the right of the child whether it can obtain sufficient resources from those who are obliged to support the child, which are primarily parents, if they are not capable of parenting whether and to what extent the State provides through its competent authorities and institutions to perform etc. and, of course, the third question is meeting the very obligation or dimension of the issue, meeting the very obligation, that is, the right of parents to support and care for their children. When this aspect is viewed, there is no doubt that we today have a lot of quality legal solutions that determine these issues primarily in the Family Law, but they are not enough and are not finished. I would like to remind him that in cases where, under the law, a family law does not receive restraint or does not have the appropriate support, his parents do not pay him alimony, or one who is obliged, and it is thought that maintenance is necessary, that then he can take the other parent, or only the child measures to provide funds for so-called. temporary maintenance until the parent's abstention obligation begins to meet its obligation again, and this temporary maintenance is that giving would have to give a social work centre and now a serious problem arises. There's too much stuff here if, if assessed, if assessed, if it's temporary restraint, etc. It is obvious, therefore, that what belongs to the child is actually brought about from the point of view of other circumstances rather than the right to it. And in such a situation, it is absolutely certain that this should be a question through regulation of social care and, of course, the family law, to be further regulated, and it is far more important for us to look at this dimension that it is necessary to pass a law on a special fund to support children for a simple reason, because there is another dimension, there are situations where a parent who is obliged to pay for alimation wants to pay but simply at a given time is not able and in such cases it would be good for him to meet that part of the obligation towards that child, and I personally think that according to the Constitution, it is also a duty to do so when the state protects motherhood, children and youth, that it does so well to collect, or refund, the money invested or days from the debtors providing an alimation when he can acquire the opportunity or the opportunity to do so mainly in situations where he knowingly avoids the payment of the State is due to pay and to give the child to ensure that the child in the same manner, in which the same manner, in which the child's the child's commitment, in the same way, in which the institution and in which the relationship, in which the child's of the relationship in which the child's, in which the relationship in which the institution, in which the institution, in which the child, in which the institution, in which the institution, in which the institution, in which the child's and in which the child's. Here is the law, the proposed law solves these issues, and in this respect, there are no big objections. Some of the objections that the government has put forward here, I must say, in fact, in one law and in another, simply stand. For example, one of the serious objections would be that the applicant in the Government's view that the proposal for a provision of a state fund does not determine its subjectivity, then, among other things, the bill ignores the fact that they are inconclusive because they are in coalition with other laws, such as the Bank Act in the section relating to the protection of banking secrets and use and... data, etc. Look, respected colleagues and colleagues of our bank have been leading these few months back as we have made an amendment to the Law on Parent Number of Fearful Campaigns to remain a home number so that we can actually control the data of our clients, i.e. committees, and now that we prescribe by law that this fund so that the state can meet its constitutional obligation to protect the child can obtain data if you see it from the banks, and I ask the question and why we can't do it when in the Constitution in Article 37 clearly stands, quote: Everyone is guaranteed the security and secrecy of personal data without the consent of the respondents. Personal data may be collected, processed and used only under the conditions laid down by law. The question is this, not whether we can prescribe this by this law but what conditions should possibly be incorporated into the law that these laws can be used usefully, or only properly, to ensure the payment of child's child's child's child's child rights. So it's not at all questionable here, and I think it's the government, putting this objection completely missed. This is one of the things that needs to be regulated by law, where the law requires the right to use and personal data not to be protected, not because someone should be discredited or discriminated but vice versa, in order to ensure that the protection of good from such data can be ensured that quality protection and... I think that in such a situation it is quite clear that there are many other issues, for example, moral, economic, social, socio-psychological aspects, there is no need to talk after the many discussions that were heard in the morning debate. [[You don't understand.]] I simply think it was important to point out these several legal issues which have been raised in the government's view that it still does not stand and that it needs them from the aspect of the Constitution that it is possible to edit them. Is this the best solution now offered I don't know, but in any case it is so good that it can endure both in one law and in another, first reading and second reading that it can look for a better solution, but it certainly does not seem that this law would not be able to regulate the right to use data, personal data from the title to provide all the necessary information about finding the person who is obliged to pay for the alimony, to obtain his business information on the property, on receipts and not only from the title of work and employment but also from the title of the property he has and which he manages, or which he owns. And in such a situation, I absolutely support the need to pass this law, and I believe that the Republic of Croatia will find the strength and I also believe that the majority party will also support the adoption of these laws in the first reading, and it has the possibility of both business and tactical and however political, that, by the second reading of the law, it will be prepared by the proposal of the law, the more the public secret that within the framework of the Government and the Government's resolutions has worked on such a bill and that it prepares it to be even better than these are proposed, and that this issue is resolved. Because this issue really needs to be raised from the sphere of discussion on relations between political parties. This is not a question of the party, this is our question, all of us, because it is about our children, it is about the future of the Republic of Croatia, it is about the future of this social community, and in such a situation we must and we are obliged to do everything we can and on any other plan to ensure as high-quality conditions for the education, education, growth and smooth development of our children and every child in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15054	Thank you. Now Mrs. Katarina Fuchek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15055	Mr. Vice President, there is great interest in the debate under this bill because all the figures and arguments that were presented here, such as 186,000 single-parent families in Croatia, which is a total of 15% of all Croatian families, make up single-parent families and that is every 5th family in Croatia, are the figures behind which live people, behind whom our neighbours, our brothers, sisters, our husbands, our wives, and therefore is a significant interest. Here, in a way, the discussion of a fellow SDP colleague has stopped every policy and there has been a life story that shows that it has nothing to do with that policy, the shrub policy, the laws and the parties. She has something to do with life, and that's why she's important. The argument that 50% of those entitled to abstention and more than 50% cannot collect their claims is one bad sign of the state of society and of the relationship of society to the individual and of whoever needs it, who needs such protection and, above all, children. And when all these laws were passed, it was certain that all of us with great sensitivity discussed in terms of making better quality solutions both in the Family Law and in other laws. However, what this all points to, and I will not say anything other colleagues have not said. It points to ineffectiveness of the judiciary, ineffectiveness of the system institutions. It is not a maintenance fee from yesterday, it is also known by the Croatian legal system when it was not Croatian, means before the Croatian state and certainly has experience from that time on. They were talking here and talking about prejudice. What are the prejudices? It's mostly in some conservative society and environment of all of us, most of the divorces of the marriages were given to the mother and the mother found herself in one awkward situation of life, in a conservative environment when she was alone, when she had no adequate care or protection of the institutions or even of the people around her. There's prejudice. Would something have started if the practice had been different? That most children are assigned to men? I don't know because we don't have that experience or we've seen those statistics. It should only be seen how they function and how other system institutions have taken care of, there are those effective and inefficient. For example. How and what is the payment of traffic penalties and traffic offences? What percentage? Can the state find us in that sense? Does he know where our address is? It was in that problem, it was, but the police, that system, it has to work. It has to work for security and there's a way, if it can't be done through the mail, then cops bring home calls. Then knock anytime, then work effectively. Does the existing system within the meaning of this rule of law and these institutions have the opportunity to settle this? I repeat, under the existing Law, as stated in the Family Law, Article 352, once again, gives the Centre for Social Care the possibility that, after that, certain time limits should be carried out by the forced payment procedure, i.e. to initiate the procedure. Now, nobody here wonders if there's a chance in this law why it's not being implemented? Maybe the welfare system doesn't work to that extent, maybe they need something. So, what's going on? We indicate that the judiciary does not function and the proposal for new laws tolerates the ineffectiveness of the judiciary, tolerates something we should not tolerate. The Assembly has no other option, nor are MPs except to propose laws, indicate the implementation or non-implementation of those laws, and all other operational matters must happen elsewhere. And say, over the past 15 years, how many laws have been passed and for the sake of consent and because of the need to adapt to the new social system, the new challenges, the new needs, the new economic environment, do they all work? Those who were in order to implement and protect capital certainly functioned. Whether the bank can collect its claims and should see percentages in which it can't. You got it. I'm sure he can because it's a protection of capital. There's a lobby and an interest that's certainly managed to carry it out the way it's supposed to. The capital has its own interest, here an individual doesn't have his own lobby to protect his interest. It's a key problem. So, and now our sensitivity is very important, are they, are we going to continue to insist that such laws be passed and implemented. But not in a way and in a political approach who will first propose the law but in a way that it, that the law governing a particular area, works. So, to be effective, that mother gets the money or that father gets the money, that that child is protected. So it doesn't matter who's going first than who's going to propose the law better and better. If there is space within the existing system then there must be room for one, for one formation within the existing system, but what I want to say, the government has recognised. It was mentioned here, Mrs. Kosor in a negative sense, how she didn't do it. In order to recognise the problem and as a responsible government, a solution will be proposed, taking into account budget resources, as one responsible state must also take care of costs. You know, it was mentioned that laws are easily rejected. They'd better be easily rejected than brought lightly so they won't be expendable and not be effective. So again, the next call comes to the same law, the same proposal, and people still have problems and nobody has anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15056	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15057	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I must say that I feel very uncomfortable after listening to the previous 20 debates on politics, on hate language, on ideological differences, on prejudices, and I have decided to shorten my exposure and raise my awareness of only one question. Can we, colleagues and colleagues, be content with the fact that despite good proposals and several hours of debate, it all ends most often without any effect, without any result? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15058	Thank you very much. Five minutes, Club Libre, Mr. Representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15059	Mr. Vice President, government representatives, I don't know if you're around this bill, your colleagues and your colleagues. In fact, what seems to be the essence of the problem may be expressed in all sentences. The right to be exercised while at the same time being an unrealised right. If this is so difficult that it can seriously function, we have a system within it all that needs to enable the exercise of rights and we stand before the naked environment and the fact that the same right is not realised. How then the Government should react, how should one have a minimum disciplined conscience and is in the position of the legislator, of course, by making it possible to paint a legal buckle that will simply enable that system to be made more vital, and, in fact, it seems that it can produce the result. What's the consequence? Realized law. So, if alimony is not realised then let us not stand before stories about it as we have heard from the spokesperson of the HDZ Club that the system does not actually produce what we would like as a desirable consequence but will, on the other hand, be anxious to expect a bill that regulates this matter in a desirable way. What way? So this is now really an opportunity to do, to make one of the normative legal, imaginary, designed and what needs to be done, and I'm going to say one more time about the realisation of justice and where the real problem is. I don't see a problem because of one thing that's gonna look almost ridiculous. It has shown that there is, in fact, a majority opinion here in this assembly, a majority mood as much as it can cause dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction with the ruling but not in this case and the majority, and then it can be expected that I, and I suggest that tomorrow, all those who have been positively manifested around these bill proposals are disciplined because tomorrow's vote is tomorrow and that we show two things, that we are responsible, that we can look the truth into the eyes, which is that the rights are being realized and not realized. And one more thing is no less important, although it is another, which is that here it is shown that pedagogical activity can be pedagogical, and that this pedagogical action shows to the ruling that they are not always majority. With all the panic that can cause it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15060	Thank you. Whether or not the proposing representatives want a final. Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15061	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Let me finally thank all those who have debated and all those who have not debated but have shown us in any way support because of this proposal, and this law and the intention to set up one of these funds. I do believe that today is a debate that has been held all morning, and we have entered this afternoon's section, and this is the topic that requested discussion, that this is the topic in which the arguments were to come out and that, indeed, this debate should lead to the conclusion that the problem needs to be solved. With this or that law. I'm sure neither my colleague nor I insisted that it be our law, nor anyone here insisted that it be his, but that the Fund be established that the state really shows concern for those who care most, those who can't because of the existing mechanisms themselves do so. I remind you again that this bill refers to 62,000 and 500 children, imagine what the number is, these are two smaller cities. Of these, 43,000 children up to 17 years of age, indeed children whose parent neglects the obligation of primary care for children. I also remind you that it is more than 50%, that is the average, of course something greater was for single parents he was over 60% while in divorced people 48% I remind you colleagues and colleagues that research exists and it is not true that these statistics were not published, you do have published in a book mentioned by a colleague Vidovic and you can all read it. So there really are indicators why the law was created or the bill was proposed, nothing here was done by heart, and the money was planned by budget, we will be discussing budget rebalancing soon. Why not use these two bill proposals for first reading, or in the extreme case as a mechanism for the government to hurry up with the bill that has been drawn up to apply already for this year. I must remind myself that this is really about the pressure on the rule of law, the debt to those who have disobeyed their obligation and that it is working and this money that is foreseen by the budget would be absolutely unnecessary, so it is necessary to start with the initial means and then to task the Government to work out mechanisms to force these debts to the extent that they are not and the greater interest, thus ensuring a dignified life of single-parent families and, in particular, children, and single-parent families are our fact. WE are all very happy to talk about happy families with several children, families both father and mother care about, but the number of 188 thousand says that we do not live in an ideal society. And if that's every 5th marriage community, then it's really something this House needs to discuss. During the debate, a lady who is president of such an association in Osijek was called and was quite surprised by our dry stories far from reality and far from what your parents face. And she really asked when they didn't have the opportunity to talk from the pay phone, so is our Rules of Procedure, all together and in the past and this term, to really say that these problems should be discussed and thought from one human point of view, not just bureaucratic, and that was too much here. So I suggest that you accept these proposals as the first reading and that you really do not show concern in the House only for those who elected their representatives to their parliament, but indeed to show concern for those we are obliged to care about because our mouths were full yesterday and all these days about population policy. Here's a chance for us to really, I think that we could reach a consensus here, just by supporting this or the law that the government is going to propose, we show that this concern is real, that it is serious, that it is responsible and that we are not here to just declare that we are taking care of anyone and especially children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15062	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, five minutes, Mrs. Milanka Opačić, final. I'm sorry, as a proposer, so he can do as much as he wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15063	It's one big difference between five minutes on behalf of the club and my rights on behalf of the promoter. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, of course, and I am forced by a good education to thank first and foremost all of you who have discussed this subject today, I think you have shown very great interest in this current law and, more importantly, for this issue today. I only hope that tomorrow's vote will show honesty and that our interest, therefore for children's rights. There has been a lot of talk here today about the fact that the government didn't go with its legal project, primarily because there's not enough data, which is not known how many children it is, how much budget funds it would require. One responsible and serious policy of course requires that you have as many calculations as possible. It's simply incorrect. That doesn't fit the real condition. In the past four years, I have already talked here about this and my colleague Vidovic as being made by research experts, this very population that we have talked about here today, so in all these publications that are very extensive and very detailed there are all indicators, there are all the figures why these data are not used, which is why many, therefore, books that have been published on this topic are closed in some rooms of the ministry, it is really something that some others should respond to and I don't know why these data that are really relevant and which are precious today are not used. When we talked also today about many laws that should be changed if we wanted this fund to succeed and be effective in making parents, irresponsible parents pay child support, then we talked about some laws that should be changed. Once again, I want to say that I cannot accept the logic by which we accept these laws as something that cannot be changed and that because of that, we cannot pass this law, I think that it should be a completely reverse situation, we must pass this law, but also change all those laws that are a hindrance to us to this fund and to really be effective in pushing child support from irresponsible parents. And finally, I would like to say that many MPs today in this Chamber have been in order to solve this problem, some have even been very practical, so they have made some other suggestions on how to solve the problem of not paying for the alimony. The majority, therefore, were also for the release of these two laws into second reading, of course all the shortcomings these laws have, unfortunately, only the HDZ Club was against. I think it's really true what counterpart Herman said tomorrow when we vote on these two laws in the morning each of us will show how responsible the MP is, each of us will show by raising his hand how much he cares about the interests of children, not only declaratively, but also real. So, as much as HDZ is interested in solving children's problems and protecting children's rights, we will see very soon whether such a law will be proposed by the government or not. It really doesn't matter to us, as counterpart Adlesic said, it doesn't matter to us whose law will pass, we just care that this problem, these very many populations, the problem of these children, is finally solved in one effective way, and not as it has been so far, that all our provisions remain just a dead letter on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15064	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The vote will be when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15065	Proposal for a Law on the State Fund for Temporary Child Support, P.Z. No. 37. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on the state fund for temporary child restraint proposed by MP Djurdja Adlesic is not accepted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 78 votes in favour, 22 against and 18 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15191	We move to the agenda point - Report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2003 The report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the material by mail. The debate was conducted by the War Veterans Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Wait a minute, I'm sorry. Representative Pero Kovacevic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15192	Mr. Vice-President, on behalf of the HSP Club, we are protesting, now it should be the point of the Proposal for a Law on Croatian...Documentation Centre from the Homeland War. We sent that law to the procedure in April this year. So the government hasn't been able to give an opinion for two months. And that's a very serious subject. We're not going to ask for a break to move on to a new point, but I think it's very unserious of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15193	There is no condition for this item to be discussed, because the Committee has not delivered its reports, nor has the Government delivered its opinion. When we deliver the item, we'll actually discuss the agenda point. And now the secretary of state, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At its meeting, the Government of the Republic of Croatia discussed a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers for the period from January 1st to December 31st 2003, and given that the period mentioned to say so in the responsibilities of the former Government, the Government of the Republic of Croatia only took note of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15195	Thank you very much. We can start a discussion. Are there any reported on behalf of the board? The War Veterans Committee. A fellow Yukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15196	Honored Vice President, dear Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. At its 6th session on 25 May, the Council discussed a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2003, which was submitted to the President of the Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 5 May. Committee meetings were attended by representatives of associations from the Homeland War. A representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia stressed in a brief opening statement that the reporting period covers 2003, or the period of mandate of the previous Government, which is a fact that he did not comment more in detail and explained the report alone. In the reporting period, less than 3.5 billion kunas have been spent for the implementation of the laws prescribed by law. The most significant share refers to the payment of disability and family pensions, which was spent on 1.96 billion kuna or 56% of the total. At the payment of permanent rights, i.e. disability, supplies, allowances and others, 622 million kuna or 17.8% were spent on payment of salaries during the unemployed 328 million kuna or 9.4%, for the housing of 280 million or 8%, for the employment of Croatian defenders 150 million or 4.3%, for health insurance costs 74 million kuna or 2.1%. And for the other rights in the smaller range. In a brief discussion, representatives of home-war associations drew attention to the still-unsettled housing issues of the most difficult people with disabilities. All 100% of the disabled aren't taken care of yet. and the problem of finally resolving the status of persons who provide care and assistance to the most difficult people with disabilities. During the reporting period, many administrative disputes were settled for the benefit of Croatian defenders, and representatives of the associations expressed interest in the costs of disputes and in the execution of judgments, i.e. how much the funds required from the state budget. The need for a more rapid adoption of an interstate agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina that would resolve the status of members of the Croatian Council of Defence with residence in the Republic of Croatia, which are in an invisible position, and some of them without health insurance. The members of the board had no major objections to the report in question, but it was pointed out in principle that many of the rights to Croatian defenders were denied, such as the right to housing, because there are still the most difficult disabled people who have not been taken care of in spite of the deadlines that have long passed. Then the right to the employment championship and some other rights. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously reached its conclusion and proposed that the Croatian Parliament be given a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15197	Thank you very much, fellow Yukic. I don't have any more reports on behalf of the Assembly Committees, so we'll head for the MPs' clubs. On behalf of the HSP Club, the first is counterpart Pero Kovacevic. Here you go, fellow representative!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15198	Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! If someone has read this Report and does not know the situation in the field of legal status and status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families can obtain the court as it is all wonderful and idyllic. If that were the case, look at the third page, where it is said that in 2003, it means solving the legal position and status issues of Croatian defenders and members of their families amounting to 3 billion 491 million 991 million and 95 kuna. It's huge money, but unfortunately this report is also a set of incorrect data. Why are the false data? Look at the report. Let's say, the salary payments during unemployment on the third side, it says that 328 million 387 thousand and slightly more kuna were spent. And now we turn the page 55, and it says that for unemployment benefits, an average of 3 thousand 266 unemployed Croatian defenders have been paid for 39 million kuna. Let's move on. We've got the next one now. It says the employment of Croatian defenders on the third page of the table is said to have spent 150 million 400 thousand and some kuna. And now we turn the 55th page that says that the employment programmes employ 2 thousand 924 defenders and that the funds in the amount of 78 million 869 thousand and some kuna have been paid for it. So, what's he saying? He's saying that there's a lot of incorrect data here. Now let's get on with the incorrect data. You have a 28th page which says how many people with disabilities, how many family pensions were used, and it says that the total pension is about 30,000, as disabled so family, that the average pension amounted to 5 thousand 353.11 kuna and then we reached the Croatian Pensions Institute's website, so we took the data from January this year, which means the December payment, which says that there were 20 thousand 99 disability pensions, that the average pension was 4 thousand 779 kuna, that there were 12 thousand 150 family, that the average was 5 thousand 568 kuna and the average means when the disability pension was taken and the family was 5 thousand 76 kuna. Therefore, this is the official data of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and the official data of the government says that the average is 5 000,353 kuna. Now let's move on to the retirement part. It is said in this section that the total amount spent in 2003 for pension disability rights means for these pensions of billions and 959 million kuna, meaning slightly less than 2 billion kuna. If we take this data from the Croatian Institute and the Report that there were an average of 30,000 pensions, it is easy to get an average of 5 thousand kunas from the monthly calculation that it is 150 million kuna and at the level of the entire year, it is a billion and 800 million kuna. So there's something wrong with me here. The second thing that matters is that in this part of both 5 thousand and 100 pensions that we HSPs have long pointed out and that is 5 thousand and 100 people who use the disabled pension of a Croatian wartime invalid and of those 5 thousand and 100 thousand and 5 that General Gotovina, Ante and I established in 1999 did not have the status of Croatian defenders at all and the rest did not have the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid and on the basis that Mr Pancic was also instigated, but unfortunately that question was never resolved by the state either, for the last four years, something about 2 billion kuna. But now we're going to go back to another part, now we're going to re-deliver the amount of pensions we had in 2001. The disabled were 17 thousand 534, the family were 11 thousand 766, so somewhere around 29 thousand 300 users. The average pension at that time was one and the other 4 thousand 897,90 kuna. And now we're looking at the wonders of one that's only possible in our retirement home. We know for a fact that tax exemptions and family cuts have been abolished, we know for a fact that the law introduced those special taxes on pensions from 2.5 thousand to more. And now watch what's possible with us and what statistics show. So that was December 2001. I reported that at 31.12 last year, there were 32 thousand 249 users, which means 20 thousand 99 disability pensions and 12,000 150 family pensions. And look, pensions have now increased. Logics were things when taxes were introduced, when there was no more tax exemptions and a cut that pension couldn't grow but pensions grew. And now the latest data the club itself has taken from us since May this year, so the last payment is about 20 thousand 693 users of disability pension and 12 thousand 133 users of family pension. So it's about 32,000 826. The average pension is again now increased by this period and amounts to 5 thousand 182 kuna. Therefore, all this says that one full revision must be made at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute because it is a sad fact that the pension fund has been working and that is the variant. The pensions of the disabled and the family were related to the salaries of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. Until last year since 1995, salaries have not been increased but some users, especially those who do not have the right to comply with pensions for other groups, also means that pensions have obviously been illegally coordinated and raised by pensioners because I have no other explanation that despite the introduction of a special tax, which is taxes and detentions, there is, for example, no right to release dead Croatian defenders and pensions. It's all saying that it's just, that the situation isn't as ideal and wonderful as it's showing up and it's obvious that the money that's being spent somewhere is not exactly spent on these intentions but maybe they're for some others so I'd like to hear whether the secretary of state or someone knows me, or not me, but the club of HSP still does. So, look. I will now try to tell you what we expected to find in the report. I'll tell you about individual cases of people we've already talked about and then you'll see what their destiny is and where and how they go about achieving their rights. Let's say the case of Janja Majure, the mother who, her two sons, died, two knights, to this day, was not resolved. I spoke three and four times from this pay phone, and so did my colleagues from HDZ, Dr. It's a Turkish. Nothing, nothing's solved. Let's do other examples. Let's just take an example of Mr. Franjic, for example from Bjelovar, who submitted a request 2.5 years ago for resolving the status of Croatian wartime wartime invalid from the Homeland War, to date nothing. Our first intervention was to refer to the first-degree committee, but then there's nothing. The case of Mr Mesic, for example, not Stjepan Mesic, but the Croatian defender from the Long Village who was a prisoner in Manjaca, who has left, means he has the status of a Croatian military invalid, they have established that he has retired, has been determined by the civilian regulations of 1,100 kuna and has not been counted at all, which according to the law, that the assessment of the working ability is related to whether the consequences of his participation in the Homeland War or random case. It's a case of a defender from Bjelovar who's 40 years old who retires in the military and calculates 344 kunas. What to tell the workers, the Croatian defenders, the former Lužnjak in County who lost their jobs because we know how the privatised company Lužnjak and who does not have, there is no way of getting a job anywhere. And even today, they were not resolved to pay those salaries they earned because the company was sold in a way that the new company that bought Lužnik has no obligation to the workers. It means it can only be taken readable but without any earlier commitments. What do you say, in case of 70 apartments in County? They've been building since 1995, since 95, and they're in phase 90 and some percent of the completion, and they're supposed to be finished, but then the county bank collapsed and pulled the whole part. And to this day it stands from 95 when it's supposed to be over, it's not over. I think the Ministry's representatives also know about the Spanish-South case, the victims of the Homeland War where it's already done, as far as I can think of, the 8th annex of the contract, and every contract annex cost 4 million dollars each, so when it's done, it can be obtained to build a new building. Thus, such examples are many. For example, gentlemen, there were five defenders who filed a request in the County, who applied for supplies, waited a year and have nothing yet, no answer. One said, he lives off that supply because he worked in Lužnjak. He lives off that supply and his family has six members. No one did anything, no one solved anything. Therefore, the situation in this area is more than alarming. And that is why the HSP Club has given enough time to the government, 6 months to create and start a full solution to this problem, since the Government did not do this, we submitted the draft law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families in the process of passing to the Croatian Parliament. Because we have both a moral and a second obligation to the families of the dead defenders and members of their families towards Croatian defenders. What to say, when the report says there was unemployment, that there were only 20 and some cases that the defenders reported that they were looking for interventions, labour inspections or other inspections when on the office days that we representatives of the HSP Club held or, say, only in the County when Mr. Jukic and I were, 15 of them said that they were competing and that nothing even though they were defenders, they met the conditions, nothing was done. This is the same situation for you regarding employment in public enterprises. Take the Croatian highways and these others, who are they hiring? Are there any families of dead Croatian defenders from Zadar? Does he have other families? No family! Only listeners or party or anyone else can come. Therefore, the situation is more than alarming. And that is why we have filed our law in the adoption process and we expect all together in this House to be responsible and to establish real rights, and that is our law to be enforceable. And what's worse, I think what's true is what one defender told me on an office day, says, that's his, I'm not saying, that's not my word, we used to have a ministry against Croatian defenders, now we have, says the Ministry of Defence, if when we have the right of the Croatian Defence Ministry then we'll be taken care of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15199	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations by Agent Niko Rebić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15200	I would only like to correct this one at the end of Mr Kovacevic's presentation that on the highway not to hire Croatian defenders, I claim it is not true, the last call for payment dogs, I think more than 90% of Croatian defenders have been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15201	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up is the IDS Club. A fellow representative of Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15202	Dear Madam Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. Well, unlike Mr Kovacevic, I don't question this data and I claim that if one thing in Croatia is relatively correct, then there is the status of defenders from the Homeland War. And God bless the role of the People's Liberation War fighters in the same way. Why? Because without this movement Croatia as much as anyone laughs would certainly not be within today's borders, and finally because Croatia is probably the only country in the world that has dramatically reduced that category of people pension, health, social, disability, etc., rights. And it just wasn't as correct as wasn't politically wise. As it is not politically wise or changing the name tTga marshal Tito here in Zagreb. The fact that someone reduced your status, the gentlemen you laugh at, the nobu, has always caused doubts about the character of the Croatian government because the abolition of acquired rights was seen as mere rematchism against the fighters of that war. What I am looking forward to, however, is a verbal turn towards that category of Croatians, but a twist in words should also be followed by a twist in parts, as otherwise everything could remain in one hypocritical courtship to the international community. So much for that. I repeat, the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War certainly solves the problem of the population in one appropriate way. I dare say even the extra budget options of the Republic of Croatia because, in 2003, 3491 million kunas were allocated to those needs as much as cca. amounting to the needs of the defence ministry in 2004, however, I will also say this, no one today has the right to reduce existing rights to defenders. In one word, no one has the right to diminish, I will call them the acquired rights of defenders of the Homeland War as it was in 91st made to the Noba fighters. Finally, some of the interventions in these rights were followed after 2000 were widely negative and one of the reasons why, for example, the affection for the 3rd January administration began to change. We're going to defense rights now. That's a first, a personal disability for cca 33801 unhappy persons. Interestingly, the number of people with disabilities is most likely to increase by about 3% per year due to PTSD. I believe that at least the persons with disabilities of World War II should be equalized with the fighters of the Homeland War because I claim if someone lost their hand on 91s or 02s around Vukovar, that hand is as valuable as that hand of a fighter who lost it on 43rd or 44th in the vicinity of Buzet or Pazin. The next defense rights are. Second, a special allowance for disabled people with 50% disability. Third, an allowance for the assistance of another person for the first and second categories of persons with disabilities of 3674 or 2575 kuna. 4. An orthopedic supplement that the user receives in 1991, at least to be recognized by second-war fighters. 5. This is an average supply for 3780 persons of 1097 kuna. 6 is a family disability for 13650 people. Seven. An increased plus increased family disability. 8. It's an extra for help in the house. Nine. Supply. Ten. Trustees, where the amount per guardian is paid out of 3824 kuna net or 3297 kuna net as much as was the average last year. And finally the compensation for the prisoners and the missing who receive that fee is 1002 persons. I advocate that the Croatian government provide a service to all interns from World War II who spent some time in Nazi, fascist camps or Pavelic camps. Germany regularly pays that fee, Italy seems to have compensated something through the Optanical Property and I believe that Croatia should treat the prisoners of Pavelic's camps as well as the political prisoners who were in Yugoslav case files after 1945. I'm still going to be more on the jobless defenders. During 2003, 28, 207 people were unemployed or even 25% less than in 2002. The unemployment benefits can last in 104 to 468 days. These people absolutely need help. What mechanism do you find now? One of the appropriate ones was that of giving 20,000 kuna as an amount for self-employment. There are also customs benefits, but let's not only encourage the import of cars, rather let's not all come down to the category of vehicles imported in 2003 even 57.2% more than in 2002, while equipment and machinery for economic activities is imported even 38.67% less than in 2002. And it's a tragedy. That right to import cars by me should be lifted. If you want a tractor, I'll give you that privilege. If you want a boat or catch a fish, I'll give you that privilege. If you want a tokarica, I'll let you buy that machine from the imports. If you want a rodent, so do I. But for the car, I wouldn't. It all comes down to talking about self-employment of a trade deficit and the like, and it's just the opposite and it encourages imports or non-employment. There's clearly a series of problems here. It's not enough to have, I'll just say machine in one general competition, you need to clear and survive on the market. And the state should in some way engage even though it is clear that the state cannot find a job for anyone even when giving a job to anyone. And neither are the defenders. Whether it was now opportunized to favour one at the expense of the others remains to be seen, but what once seemed to be a priority to defenders besides public competitions what the former government had abolished has often turned into mixed competitions, clientelism, one anti-market competition, or favouring one another at the expense of another. In the business of it simply cannot be and it is good that the third-month administration has abolished it. It is clear that in those 80, 90, 100% disabled, you need to enable people, give them actually free to get to the car. The question of apartments. This goes, however, many complain about the quality of the apartment. There was something Mr. Kovacevic was saying. I want, however, to apostrophe two cases from Istria. One case is Valvoline, which I will talk about a little more later and the other is the case of Đura Horačak, who lives with his family, four of them in a room of 20 square metres in the Kamenjak refugee center. In 1991, he had a military apartment in Zadar. The war found him as Captain JNA in Sarajevo. Clearly, others immediately moved into his Zadar apartment. However, Djuro Horaček worked all the time for Croatian intelligence services. Milosevic's regime sentenced him to 8 years in prison, and spent 4 or 5 years in prison in Serbia. He returned to Croatia in 1999. He moved to Istria. He was lucky enough to get a job there. She works in one school and lives with a woman and two children in a room of 20 or 25 square feet. He has the status of defenders from 1992 to 1999, but he can't make it to his apartment or his replacement apartment. And that's just not fair, gentlemen. This man too needs to be helped in some way and his case needs to be resolved. Through me he probably addressed everyone from the minister, the Prime Minister, these, those, I don't know who, but he still lives in that apartment of 20 or 25 square feet. I was warned by the late HDZ representative, Mr Kujundzic, and it would be morally, honestly, that the case of Đura Horachek, who spent 4 or 5 years in Milosevic's prison for Croatia, would now be resolved for his benefit. Perhaps to mention the need for demining even though it may not be of some direct interest to this Law and to build monuments, which is in some way the subject of this report. All national war sites should be marked. These are the people who died in those places, who deserve it, that's the memory of what should be marked and that or those people must be to express themselves in our memory all the time. Perhaps it would not be worse to find any lip for the restoration of a Partisan monument that, in that early phase of this country, was on the shootout, and in 10 years, some 3,500 were destroyed. It is good that these monuments are no longer collapsing which only confirms that we have become one tolerated community but it is not good for the legitimacy of the Republic of Croatia to raise or tolerate the monuments of France or the streets of Mili Budaku. This report for me is absolutely positive. It shows that in 2003 more funds were allocated for these purposes than in 2002 and significantly more than in 1999, and it does not stand then that the third-month administration has left that population behind. Maybe in some individual cases, but not in principle. Yes, of course. That this population on the other hand did not ideologically accept the third-month rule is now standing, however, it should also be known that any authority that has the legitimacy of Croatian citizens is Croatian and will be in the future because it is normal that authorities are also changing in the future as they have changed so far. And for the end of another one-of-a-kind defense law, under allegations of law. It's a loan, it's a loan that, under quotes, doesn't need to be returned. Okay, that loan, that 290 million kuna is now prolonged, that's fine. It's just wrong not to treat others the same way. 3 133 self-employment loans were granted. Each one got 92 500 kuna. It's a total of 290 million kunas. This type of self-employment in this country has suffered not so much from defenders but from the fact that if the state does not encourage beginners no matter who is unfortunately in this country when everything is subject to import has no chance. Some of the loans have been extended, it's better than to take people's assets away, but also know 90% of the loans won't come back in five years either. There are some negative examples that Mr Kovacevic spoke of, but it is not generally the spirit of this law, and we should say that this matter was correctly solved in 99 and 2000 and I have no doubt that it will not be in 2004 and/or 2005, and it cannot stand to say that we had a ministry against the defenders. The state of Croatia has singled out for the population I claim above its budgetary opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15203	Thank you very much, colleague. I didn't mean to interrupt, but I'm asking you nicely when we're talking it would be good to stick to the subject. This time it's the subject of a report relating to last year, so please, colleagues and colleagues, let's talk about last year's report. Here's the excuse for this interpretation, but I'm afraid we'll get off the subject very often. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Bekavac's representative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15204	Thank you, Madam Vice President. As you said, Agent Cain did not stick to Article 214. The Rules of Procedure and in his speech did not hold on to the topic which is now being discussed and this is a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, and it is not a report on the participants of the People's Liberation Fight. I mean, this is 2003 and it's not 45. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15205	Thank you very much, dear colleague. That's right, that's Article 214. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Agent Boras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15206	Dear colleague Cain said he had money to mark mass sites from the Homeland War, and that it would be good, so there was no money to rebuild monuments, partisan monuments, fighters from the People's Liberation War. That's just not true. There is money for this, and we are witnessing that the great money has been invested among other things in the restoration of the monument to the Jasenovic victims, but I would say it is unfortunate that there is no money for a decent burial of the victims whether they are as victims or as living people thrown into the foyries, and for that part we need to find money in the Croatian budget that they are properly buried, not a monument.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15207	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Let's move on in the name of the clubs. The HNS club of PGS, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15208	Honored vice presidents, respected members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. My discussion and comments on this report are about PTSD sufferers for one single reason, which the wounded in the Homeland War are proud of their injuries, which we in the HNS and PGS do not dispute but appreciate. But I have a need here to say that PTSD sufferers must also be proud of their illness, because every warrior who's been exposed long enough to war must simply get sick if he was a normal person before that. Since it's a fact, I've dedicated this consideration to them. The aim of the national psychosocial assistance programme is to organise continued psychosocial and health care as part of integrated care for participants and victims of war in the territory of Croatia. To all members and their families and other residents who need it in the form and intensity of appropriate needs, this assistance system has as a general and primary objective of raising the overall quality of life and supporting so on. Reintegration of the first active orientation in working with participants and victims of the Homeland War and members of their families. And our proposal is concrete, to establish an independent psychotraum department within which a national psychotraum centre will operate at the Dubrava Clinical Hospital that will enable comprehensive counsel treatment from both PTSD and other psycho-disorders, i.e. that, compared to PTSD, diseases and addictions to alcoholism and drugs are treated. A database is being conducted and produced in connection with interventions to the type of interventions and to the category of users and the structure of professions that work with victims from the Homeland War with the aim of effective and comprehensive care of Croatian defenders and members of their families in the implementation of the national psycho-program, psychosocial assistance co-operates with other ministries and bodies of the state administration. In collaboration with the Croatian Institute of Public Health, the creation of a register of suicides is under way in order to obtain accurate information on the suicides of defenders. This is how the production of PTSD-enabled registries is under way. However, there is no register on the suicides of Croatian defenders who suffer from PTSD, although there is a contract between the Ministry and the Croatian Institute of Public Health that they were obliged to implement, i.e. to make and deliver to us in this report. The expert advice as an advisory body that professionally directs the implementation of the national programme is held by regular meetings, was formed in March 1999, and the Minister's decision in March 2001 amended the composition of the programme. According to proposals from institutions that have their representatives in the expert council, regular monthly meetings shall be held and, where appropriate, press conferences with a purpose of public reporting in connection with the implementation of the national programme. I will not now list the respected experts in this council, however, I would like to say that it would be necessary for the report on the work of the expert advice of the national programme, which according to the Rules of Procedure to have a number of meetings annually, as a report on the national programme is submitted, i.e. This expert advice does not have a report, so we do not know what they were doing or what their job was. I think that there is an urgent need for the equalisation of the sick and wounded and the release from participation, since the current law has committed a great injustice against those who are ill and wounded. Article 108 and 109 to amend or exclude the time limit for the submission of applications for the recognition of status and right to a family disability on the basis of a PTSD disease. I'd like to ask another question, which is the role of the Center for Crisis, which has no possibility of hospital accommodation. They're being funded, and at least they're being used by defenders because there's no way they can accommodate them. And in the end, I would like to list the funding of associations where I am not satisfied, and not many defenders, i.e. It is embarrassing that since 99, 93 million kuna has been allocated to associations, and out of that money for the work of the Association of PTSD only 0.36% and that is 340 thousand kuna in five years. We in HNS think that the attitude towards PTSD and Homeland War sufferers should be changed and we support this proposal, this report completely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15209	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up, the HSS Club is a respected representative of Zdenko Harami. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15210	Honored Madam Vice President, dear colleagues from the government, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The report, which is very thorough and detailed in front of us, deals with everything that has been done to protect the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. It is a category of Croatian citizens who were directly or indirectly in charge of us directly or indirectly, so we and all other Croatian citizens. It is evident that by 2003, under all the rights laid down in the Law, users were paid a little less than 3.5 billion kuna, of which 56% of the funds or nearly 2 billion kuna were spent on paying off permanent rights, i.e. disability. The word is extremely large, but I agree absolutely with what counterpart Cain said that for this category of citizens of the law, there simply must be so much that it cost. There is a slight trend in the growth of users of personal disability, both in their numbers in paid funds. The personal disability averaged 33,000 800 users per month. A small increase in orthopaedic supplement users and a slight increase in family pension recipients is also evident, indicating that the number of users is stabilised. Trend decreases in the user, the number of users is visible in family disability benefits, for families imprisoned and missing by around 9%. The right that may be most significant is the right to housing. The report shows that a thousand and 87 new requests were received during the reporting period while nearly 15 thousand requests were made during the same period. This problem is solved by the assignment of apartments or the assignment of housing loans, and the total amount of funds paid from the title of the award of apartments and the title of the loan amounted to around 270 million kuna. It is obvious that a considerable effort has been made to help Croatian defenders and members of their families solve housing problems. What should be tackled as a priority, which is a solution to the housing issue of the most difficult people in the reporting period, has not been resolved until the end, and since there are still 100% people with a housing issue left unresolved. Well, that's the direction of the then Ministry of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War. As for paid pensions and visible increase by cca 10%, the number of users who totalled 32,000 249 with an average pension of 5 thousand 353 kuna is also a percentage increase in total issuances for this category of users. It is also noted that the number of beneficiaries of family pensions is decreasing while the number of people with disabilities is increasing. In carrying out an audit of the disability assessment, it is evident that more than a thousand cases have been audited since the thousand cases were processed, which means there was a justification for the implementation of the audit. As far as unemployed Croatian defenders are concerned, the average monthly fee was 33,000 266. During the reporting period, 2,000 924 unemployed Croatian defenders were employed, indicating the justification of the incentives invested in solving this problem. From everything said, we at the HSS Club conclude that during the reporting period the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families has been implemented effectively and that it fully justifys the existence of all the institutes contained in the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and members of their families. For the sake of everything said, the HSS will support a report on the implementation of the Law for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15211	Thank you very much, colleague. Next on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15212	Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The reporting period covering this report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families from 1 January to 31 December 2003 included all that the new Law had adopted. Thus, through this report, we can see through everything that is described that there are permanent money rights included, housing, pension and disability insurance rights, health insurance rights, advantages in enrolment in educational institutions and scholarship rights, advantages in accommodation in student homes, or student homes, rights to free textbooks, advantages in accommodation in retirement homes, rights to shares, or shares in companies. Employment of Croatian defenders, customs and tax relief, eshumation, identification and burial of Croatian defenders, marking the place of mass graves,... The cemetery of victims of the Homeland War, the psychosocial program, the translation of users to the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, the collaboration with associations stemming from the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there was probably something else in this report, but it's not there, which I'm sure I'll tell you about at the end of my presentation. Namely, all of these are what they called them, privileges used by Croatian defenders or privileges as it was called during the past period. Many Croatian defenders have certainly suffered from these privileges during the past period, many of them certainly and raised their hands over themselves during the past period because of these privileges. But the causes and causes of all these events certainly remain forever hidden only in their psyches, in their heads, in their thoughts and experience of all the traumas they have experienced. We must say that this should also be put in the report and describe how it was treated to Croatian defenders, not only in this 2003, but throughout the rule of the coalition government. And today, with so much concern and longing, force and ferocity he fights to give the greater rights to the Croatian defenders, but he also struggles with force to make them equal with the II warriors. the world war, the anti-fascists and their descendants and their rights. I have to say, listening to the presentations of colleagues from other clubs, I hear that the increase of this percentage and so much, I wouldn't quite agree with them because they're not exactly a representation of everything that's been going on. We need to know that most of the funding of these 3.5 billion kunas has been allocated is just a question of how. While one of the rights has been abolished, others have increased by 0.1 or 2% or some individuals by even 60% to 90% by commissions that have been significantly funded for their work, which has been strictly directed from the circles of power. How the powers wanted the commissions to judge. So they brought their own vessels, regardless of the severity of individual suffering, regardless of his wounds, to his traumas and consequences, without worrying about it. Perhaps this report should also have included gorillas who were kept by the commissions or security guards as they were called officially, who were guarding those commissions so that there would be no incident, attacks and physical conflicts. Praise God in today's ministry does not need armed guards, the masses of people accomplishing and seeking their rights through that ministry. Thank God with reason, with due respect at the Ministry of Croatian Defence, the daily accumulated problems of the population, which deserved special care and care, are being solved by all Croatian beings, especially any current government. It is impossible that they happened in the famous translation of such strange things that I used to mention only before and today I have to say when these figures are clearly and visiblely shown in this report then they are probably true. This report does not have everyone in Croatia except the Parliamentary MPs and possibly someone else who has tried to win, and it clearly states that the translation of Croatian wartime wartime people from the Homeland War has done a number of injustices and, for example, a smaller percentage has been achieved by disabled people, a smaller percentage has been achieved by 1121 users or 29.77%. From 10 to 90 percent, their rights are reduced. 1121. Dear colleagues and colleagues, that's one easy assault brigade. Those who have been unfairly evaluated or given them an excessive degree of disability, for their wounds and bleedings, for their deaths, and the status has completely lost 473 users or 12.56% of the total number. Others left without any income, compensation, left to themselves and unable to attract. These are acts that are so painful and disturbing in this report, these are works that no one should actually be honored and should ever be repeated. But there are even more difficult than what is called the abolition of status or the reduction of disability for Croatian military disableds, there is what is called the abolition of the status of members of the families of the dead Croatian defenders. There are objective reasons for ending school, marriage, wives, death of parents or something else. During the translation period, the total number of persons with disabilities were processed or translated in 1968, of which 527 people lost their status because their family pension was abolished. a for 1441 persons the status of users of family property has been recognised. 527 dead Croatian defenders in various circumstances leaving, coming to the battlefield to see if they were killed by their comrade, but he was a member of the task force and the law on that should be loud and clear. Dawn examples show where other mothers and fathers are powerless without receiving any of these 527 people whose status has only been lifted in 2003, but we have reports from previous years, so if we collected that figure together, it would be bigger. Despite all this, I think that there is something that is very worrying about the law and it is called the employment of Croatian defenders. What the Law of the State of Croatia requires and never is properly absorbed and the report shows that the advantage of employment is Article 38. The law stipulates that state administration bodies, judicial authorities and other state bodies, units of the district, local, regional self-government, public service, extra-financial funds and legal persons owned or mostly owned by the Republic of Croatia are obliged to give priority to children of the deceased Croatian defender who have no other parents, Croatian wartime disabled, members of the family of the dead Croatian defender, unemployed Croatian defender. And the State Inspectorate has worked on certain applications that came from our defenders who otherwise self-secret enough many times thinking that they will not even pass on the tenders that were published did not make any objections, nor did they report to the State Inspectorate and this data shows that labour inspectors received a total of 36 requests in 2003 alone. And that again is 21.74% less than in the last reporting period and in 2002, to monitor the right of advantage in employment. A positive solution to one request has been made. Which is 87.50% less than in 2002. 20 requests are essentially unfounded, which means the word is essentially unfounded. They should probably see these items, so they'll know what's ground and what's not justification. In 5 cases, the procedure was suspended while in 2 cases the procedure was pending and further review was given in Table 1 below. Namely, this is a negligible number of the population of 400 thousand Croatian defenders who participated in the Homeland War. Imagine just 36 requests to inspect work to see if they really should have been accepted according to the priorities they have in legal norms or not. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will accept this report because we are pleased that it contains all the arguments that speak about what happened to the population of Croatian defenders. Unfortunately, I must say that in the distribution of funds to associations, Mr. former Minister or today's counterpart Pancic has long worked out his intention to the followers of Tudjman and Šuška and radicals such as HVIDR won't give any lip until they sign their loyalty to the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Pancic, that was one of your goals to force everyone to worship you, to beg you, and to seek what the budget intended and what you should have just transferred and not to keep under as our people say under the hand brake. How you will make out with us will be dear to us. I would like to say that the relationship with the Croatian defenders was truly catastrophic and not all described in this report, but this is enough of what I was talking about. The report will be accepted but I must say it is not complete because it did not give birth to those contracts signed in 2003 and for which certain equipment was obtained for the Clinical Hospital Center Zagreb. They're not covered by this report, so I hope that it comes one day at a time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15213	Thank you. Correction? [[Intruder: The speaker is not on, you can't hear.]] Here you go, sir! Mr. Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15214	A dear colleague of the HDZ Assembly and also the president of HVIDRA said a lot wrongly, but I would just look back on a few things. First, if HVIDRA had not received the money because they were followers, I don't know who all of them were, among other things, the late President Franjo Tudjman. That's not true. Mr. HVIDRA, first you solve the crime in HVIDRA. I wish you had solved the issue of the Croatian Homeland Fund that you were trying at least part inside HVIDRA and then probably the money of Croatian taxpayers would be. Next, it's not good for people who earn their jobs fairly and it's about security people calling them gorillas. They are employees like all citizens in this country, especially because there are a lot of Croatian defenders among them, among other things working to protect the Croatian Defence Ministry, or whatever it is called. And finally, the finding of solving the accumulated problems in the ministry. I wish that was happening. Nothing is resolved except that the Deputy Prime Minister is getting rid of a secretary who doesn't want to get up every time she enters the room and thus greets her. Really sad and really sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15215	Mr Pancicu, HVIDRA representative, should not call on HVIDRA president to solve the crime in HVIDRA because it is not the job of the president or any member of the HVIDR to fight and to resolve the crime issue. To solve possible crime in HVIDRA, there are state authorities in charge of crime by the police, the state's attorney's office, the court and so on, and don't call on the HVIDRA president's assembly to solve any crime because then you're not for the rule of law if you say so, you understand. Therefore, the other thing is that you prejudge the existence of crime in HVIDRA which is also inadmissible in the assembly because you are not a judge nor are you invited to judge as I am not or the other MPs. So it's on my side as chair of these sessions. And now for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Josip Djakic reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15216	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Pancic injured the Rules of Procedure in Article 209. He even abused him when instead of correcting the incorrect allegations because I specifically cited his words which he stated in several Croatian presses that followers of Tudjman and Shuška would not get a drop from the state budget. That's what you said. That's what I'm behind, and I'll explain to you at any point. So you disrespected Croatian defenders all the time with your smile as you smile on today and on... when he brought you a leg so I wouldn't tell you what you were doing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's embarrassing in this house to talk about your shameful actions. I therefore ask for a reminder to be given to the gentleman because he abused Article 209.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15217	We won't share a warning this time but we are not allowed to tell counsel Pancic about his disgraceful actions because the same has not been determined whether or not we are not invited to determine. Therefore, I do not think that such words should be used, and this time we will pass through this, although calling for actions or activities that are not in the power of either the Parliament or individual parliamentary representatives should not be allowed to anyone. On behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15218	I must certainly answer to Mr Pancic's former minister for his remarks that nothing is done in the ministry. In fact, Mr Pancic, the ministry is very serious and studioy and this Parliament has already had several opportunities to convince itself of that. In these less than six months, more work has been done than for the past four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15219	Thank you very much. Now the word fifteen minutes on behalf of the SDP Club Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15220	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I'm gonna need less time. Don't be afraid, I'm not going down to this level of secretary of state and president of HVIDRA because I still consider politics to be a great deal of gentlemen and ladies. To move on to the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War for the previous year. I think this report realistically shows the costs of the care system for Croatian defenders in the previous year. The only problem is that it may not be current because earlier reports have always been about six months late, which shows the complexity of the system of concerns because it includes a whole series of institutions, and it takes time to bring them all together. Here, Mr Kovacevic of HSP spoke of some illogical rights in pension insurance but all of this is data provided by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Well, I wouldn't be longer about that. I would just say that this report, which speaks of some 3.5 billion total spent, of which a billion and 900 for pension rights, over 620 million for permanent rights, 320 million for unemployment benefits and 150 million for the employment of Croatian defenders, etc., etc. What I would like to say is that this report, which comes at the end of the term of office of a government that has been called for the demeaning of Croatian defenders, a negative attitude towards the Homeland War, for co-operation with the International Court of Justice in The Hague, etc., etc. So this report needs to be kept. I invite you to put it somewhere in your own archives to simply compare with this year's report and the 2004 report. Here, I assure you that this new report with this old man won't make much difference because this year's budget is almost identical to last year's. This is a fundamental argument, regardless of what the current government said about this year's budget has been particularly increased for births, we have seen how this HSLS and SDP proposal has passed around the alimony fund and Croatian defenders today. I said I'd take the entire government to lunch if that's true. Whether it's a conflict of interest, that's what the government can see through my fingers, but I think I'll save that money because the budget is at the same level as last year. But perhaps this year the government was a prisoner of the inherited state, so it could not increase the amounts for the Ministry and Croatian defenders. So this report, here, please keep it compared to the 2005 report. I hope that by then the new Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, because this Pancic Law is no good, I sign the bad stuff, but come on, I'd like 36 years, I'd like to experience the adoption of this new Law on the rights of Croatian defenders who will be at the level of pre-election promises. So not just any law, any cosmetic changes, but what was promised. And let us remember that in the pre-election campaign we said, at the first session of the Croatian Parliament we will put in a new Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. It's been six months. Several times, the deadlines have gone long, including the deadline, tell me I'm telling the truth, June 30th. Today it's gentlemen, I think we're all counting on the same calendar. If you hadn't remained the one, what's the name of the former who had the October Revolution counting on, it is now July 1st, July 1st and the Law on the Rights of the Croatian defender of this new righteous one is gone. Well, let's see, maybe we'll meet him. This new report on the implementation of the 2005 Law, because I assume that if HDZ has failed to reduce VAT, if it has failed to give money to the pensioners, but some fund, that at least it will fulfill the promise to the Croatian defenders and in this new report that we will talk about some, instead of 3.5 billion kuna about at least 5.5 billion kuna, because these promises, let's take a pen, basic mathematical operations need to be applied, there is no need for post-knowledge, a high school, even a primary school, we get to these 2 billion kunas. But all I'm saying is that by who knows which time he repeats what is fundamentally, that Croatian defenders can't be manipulated and whoever does this will come back to him like a boomerang. What should continue, above all, in addition to fulfilling the obligations of permanent rights, pension insurance, means according to the families of the dead Croatian defenders, the missing, the prisoners, those who have suffered badly, all the activities of this government and we have several good indications both from the prime minister and from the vice president that we do not say that nothing is done, should be focused on the employment of Croatian defenders and their education. So these favourable trends should continue. And let me get this straight. The former government that you can demean amongst others and with cooperation with the Court of Justice in The Hague, and no one has given so many Croatian defenders and generals to the Court of Justice in The Hague to you, from you, gentlemen of the HDZ, I would like you to now lift a tile and say correcting the wrong people, that I am wrong, to lie. The former government is in line with the economic situation in the country that was difficult, which was found because of all those privatisation marifetteluks and robberies, and the robbery was also the Croatian Homeland Fund, and we can discuss it here, I have papers. Because the press shares went to one tycoon and you say it's also false. You can say You're right, Mr. Vice President. [[Intruder: It is not about tycoons but about the Report, about the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence.]] Okay. [[And we'll get to the tycoon in a few years.]] I miss that I don't have the experience of a member of the former Communist Union. And there are gentlemen from HDZ in a far more favourable position than I am. So the former government is in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15221	No, it's not, it's not about the former members, I'm the chairman of this session, not you. [[I'll just finish the sentence, sir, so I don't know why you're...]] It is not about former members of the Communist Union but about the report on the implementation of the law on the rights of Croatian defenders, so stick to the subject because I will take your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15222	Excellent. So I can be the child of Kumrovec, but again I say I don't have a second party internship, what can I do?- I'm sorry. So the former government, in line with the state's economic situation, could single out these 3.5 billion kunas, which is why you called us that little. Now there's a move on you, I hope once again that in the next 2005 report with this law that will come here these days, we expect it, even HSP had to come out with its proposal that would cost about 2 billion kuna more, directly from the budget, plus the unfulfilled revenues of the state. So then we'll talk about some 2 billion kunas more and then probably we from the SDP will give you the confession to stick to pre-election promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15223	I thank you for your very, very inspired presentation. We do not prohibit the Rules of Procedure from being inspired to expose them. Correction, the breach of the Rules of Procedure has appeared, Mr. Representative Djakic. But forgive me, for correcting the Rules of Procedure's injury to Pleško Vladimir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15224	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Pancic, injured the Rules of Procedure in Article 214, where it is said that when offended or demeaned by MPs or state officials that they should be warned, he gave them a warning, and he did so with his explicit words, by descending to someone's level. I think it's a very serious violation of the Rules of Procedure and he deserves a warning, so I'm asking you to give him a warning later in the end right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15225	He won't get a warning, because there's no telling what level he was talking about or what level he meant. Mrs. Maria Byte. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15226	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Pancic has violated Article 214, paragraph 5 and 6 which says that he demeans and insults MPs and that by conduct he deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. In fact, Mr Pancic said he would not descend to this level of HVIDRE and the secretary of state because HVIDRA and the secretary of state because politics deals mainly with gentlemen, so if Mr Pancic's policy is too much. And also the illusions related to all the speeches that were on Croatian defenders, the Croatian Democratic Community is again on several occasions encouraging hate speech in this Croatian Parliament, which is inadmissible, and I do not know what purpose Mr Pancic uses it for what purpose, because he knows that he is in official use in the Republic of Croatia and the Gregorian calendar and Latin letter and Croatian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15227	Well, I don't know, breaking the Rules of Procedure with regard to these qualifications isn't something that would require a special warning. I think it was all within the Rules of Procedure, and the question of who is at what level is a relative, relative thing because I think Mr Pancic enjoys a great reputation in the defence population, but that is my personal opinion. You understand. We now have several, several corrections of incorrect allegations. You called in late for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There's no voting here whether or not he can. Either she answered or she didn't. I didn't record it, but if you claim to be her closest then Mrs. Babic-Petricevic, please welcome the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15228	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice President, if you doubt what I've done, everyone has their pride and dignity, I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15229	It's not pride and dignity, but I didn't see and write it down, but I said I trusted my colleagues. So it wasn't me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15230	Well, I, I'm old enough, I don't need witnesses and I behave politely in this Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15231	But here, here we must
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15232	All right, sir, Mr. President, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15233	So here we have to ask if the president has to see everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15234	It's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15235	Because I didn't see it, so now I can't say I saw it when I didn't see it? And if, and that's not offensive, the question is, did this, this one, what does that tile say during or after Mr Pancic's debate? That's the problem. So I didn't notice that she got up during his, his debate. And then there's an out-of-the-way lift. So that's why I'm saying it, and not now I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15236	All right, Mr. President, Mr. President. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15237	Okay. We are now moving on to a number of corrections of incorrect allegations, so I beg your patience. The first is Mr. Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15238	It's working. Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the allegations, correcting the quote of my colleague Pancic, who said he would not descend to the state secretary's level and HVIDRA level. That's an incorrect quote. Mr. Pancic won't because he can't rise to that level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15239	Don't go further into such qualifications because the question is when Mr Pancic said he would not descend to Mr Djakic's state secretary's level, I don't know which side he was looking at. So it means everything's fine for now because it's not established. Correction of the incorrect alleged representative Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15240	Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting the incorrect allegations, I don't know if I'd tell my colleagues or not, the Pancic in which he claimed there was no law on the rights of Croatian defenders. It's a pure lie and deception, that's incorrect. The law was written long before the election. The working groups of Croatian defenders and ministries developed it, coordinated it to be when it came to the benches of the Croatian Parliament, what we previously talked about and brought with consensus and was worth permanent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15241	Formally looking at, formally looking at him is still in, so he's not, he's in the preparation phase, and the other thing, don't use the word lie because I've already made warnings to some MPs, so in case I repeat that word, I'll continue to apply the same criterion. For everyone, no matter who. What? ... He used it once. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] I say the second time you use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15242	Mr. Vice President, I accept your warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15243	Now the correction of the incorrect allegations by Mr. Representative Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15244	Mr. Pancic said there was no new and fair law procedure. There is. The HSP club was directed two days ago and then Mr. Djakic was right. That he has a new, fair procedure. You can see him, too. You can see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15245	Thank you very much. So here's what the correction of the false assumption is. Two days ago, the law was passed. Correction of an incorrect Correction of the incorrect, each has the right to propose a 152-seat law. ... [[The intruders don't understand.]] It is not mandatory that every law is proposed by the government, anyone can propose. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Not every one, but representatives and clubs. Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs. Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15246	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of Agent Pancic. It is not true, Mr Pancic, that this 2004 budget is identical to the 2003 Budget. Well, you know well that you have achieved a deficit of 6.7%, but regardless of this major deficit, we will surely restore both HDZ and the government under the leadership of Dr. Sanader and the Ministry of Defence under the leadership of Mrs. Kosor to the rights of defenders and their rights and dignity to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15247	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote although I don't know what it was about, but, Ivan Bagarić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15248	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Pancic said he should not play with Croatian defenders. I'm really a witness that you've been playing. So it can be played, but yes, it's true that it's like a boomerang coming back. That's what we're witnessing. And it's not true that this government has extradited the generals. Because the honorable Croatian generals responded honorably in The Hague, and this honorable government stands honorably in their defense. ... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15249	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Correction of Mrs. Maria Byte's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15250	Mr. Vice President, I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15251	Thank you very much, Mrs. Maria. And correcting the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15252	Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, I will not correct the incorrect allegations of his fellow Pancic about his nonpartisan internship in the party, but given his underage of 36 years, I can conclude that he will also be a party recordr. But the Pancic law he mentioned, I'd say he didn't exist. There was a law on Croatian defenders, if you will, which was written by my smallness 90 and a few years ago. The law was changed, but there was something much more dangerous. There was Pancic's policy that knowingly or unconsciously humiliated Croatian defenders and their mothers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15253	Thank you very much. The correction is probably possible by saying that there was no Pancic law, it would be slightly more likely to be called such a law by Pancic. On behalf of the Proposer, Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Defence, etc. Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15254	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I welcome you very much. I am glad that here I can take advantage of this opportunity and address this honorable House and, of course, I had to come and, despite my government obligations to correct several incorrect allegations and to appease all those who care deeply about the status of Croatian defenders today. The first law on the rights of Croatian defenders is complete. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders is as we have announced will be completed by 30 June, the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families has been completed by 30 June 2004 as we announced and a broad debate takes place with Mr. Pancic, on this law which, as I believe, was done in cooperation with the Associations of the Homeland War. For the first time, they had the right to participate in this task force, to work on the law, and we agreed that the law would be passed I believe that you are informed about it, because I believe that you will follow what is happening in the ministry, that it will be passed during this year, until the end of this year, in order for it to be a law which I believe will be voted by 152 MPs and MPs in this House, I believe that you will raise your hand for this law, because it has to meet several conditions because, as we announced before the election, we had our own party law prepared and finished, but we thought after winning the elections that it was not good that we were going to go into the parliamentary procedure, but that we should include those who are naturally interested in life, so Croatian defenders and members of their family in making that law. The party law was some kind of foundation, but in no way is it the HDZ law, but it's the law of this government. I am sure that it will be the law of this Parliament and that it will finally be a law that will be free of political bickering, that it will be a law that will not be changed after the next parliamentary elections, that as far as Croatian defenders are concerned, and the most sensitive population will be something like the Constitution, which will not experience any change after four years or more when parliamentary elections happen. Although in the last term during last government and last term the Constitution has changed twice, I believe it will not be the case with this law. Therefore, I ask you, in the interest of Croatian defenders, not to say something that is not true, that the law has not been made, that the Government is making it difficult, that it has any intention other than to pass a fair law that will be able to implement in life, that will be in accordance with other laws and that it will simply not have such legal and other voids that it simply will not be enforceable. I want to remind you of the promises before the 2000 elections when they also went from parties that wanted to change power then the HDZ authorities and who spoke and promised a law that was at the time 19 billion kuna and which, of course, could not have been implemented into life. It happened exactly the opposite, it went with a different law, but I think that the time of the debate on who, who did more has passed and must be the past if we really care about Croatian defenders, their dignity and their fair and fair response to the states, everything they did for Croatia, for all of us, for each of us, which is that they were members of the winning Croatian Army, that they defended and that they defended Croatia and it must be shown in one of these laws. I also heard Mr. Pancic say I'm asking for the secretaries to rise when I enter the ministry. Mr. Pancicu, the only thing I'm asking for in this ministry, I'm going to insist on, that's work, of course, and just work, and that's the only criterion I'm evaluating my associates from the porter, the secretary to the secretary of state, the secretary of the ministry, that's the only standard, of course, and the polite behavior that I believe you're also advocating, and I'm sure you've advocated while you were in that ministry. I also ask everyone to respond to calls from Croatian defenders and members of their families, so to raise the phone, to talk, not to make a phone call, not to pretend that the line is busy, that it is spotlessly answered, that the ministry door is open, that there are no parallel exits for the minister or for the minister whoever it is but to enter the same door that Croatian defenders are entering. Therefore, she did not give any order in this regard, nor did she think of it, but to seek discipline from all my associates, to seek work, and to seek responsibility, it is true, and so it will be until the end of my term of office. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and I believe that we will soon have the opportunity to discuss this law in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15255	Thank you very much. At 16,41, we've run out of time to report in 10 minutes. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15256	... It has the benefit of this little controversy because the Vice-President wouldn't have come if the controversy hadn't come, because it wasn't even this morning when it came to the State Fund for Temporary Child Support, which is one of the fundamental issues and work of the Family Ministry, etc. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15257	Here, this has never been a correction before.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15258	Because when you say here is a bill, a bill of law, and we have fulfilled our pre-election promise. The pre-election promise was at the first session of the Croatian Parliament we go with the proposal of our law. Then it's several times prolonged and it's said by June 30th, today it's July 1st, and I think because HSP went with his bill of law, now this one's fast-tracked and he's waving here. Unfortunately, I wish I was wrong, but take care of the dates and what you promise.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15259	Done. The laws are not concluded, regardless of how they were adopted, the word "lawmaking" is not common here in Parliament, so we could call it the term "ala Pancic" in the future. Ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15260	I'm representing the proposer, so please... Please, yes,... Mr. Vice President gave me his word and I think I can speak as a motionary. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I mean, of course, without any intention of further controversy, but I think Mr. MP Pancic has now deeply offended all members of the task force who have been working hard for almost five months to draft this law. Mr. Pancicu, when they hear the ladies and gentlemen who are members of the task force, I think they will be deeply offended because you call their efforts and pain by concluding or kneeling at the last minute, I don't think it's entirely appropriate for this House. But that's not up to me, it's up to those who run the session and, of course, decide at the end of the voter. But the truth is this, and I'm sure you know it well because I see that the various information that comes to you is half the information, so I'm sorry that half the information comes to you from the ministry. The task force is working hard and the task force has made a law that, I deeply hope, is on solid and good foundations. As for calling me because I wasn't in the morning at the session, I want to inform you that first I had a press conference, that I was, that I would also report on a law that had just been completed. Secondly, I took part in a session of the Croatian Chamber of crafts where I welcomed the entire government and on behalf of the Prime Minister. And that third, that just this time during the debate, I received an Austrian ambassador. Among other things, these were my obligations today, and I didn't come just because I was encouraged by anyone's debate, but this is the time I could have come, and it just worked out just fine to deny some of the truths that were brought here. So, as for my relationship, Mr. Representative, according to this House, I think that after 8 years of sitting here as a representative, I have had this honorable duty, I do not have to prove in particular that I have a deep respect for all of you, for the Croatian Parliament, because I answer to the Croatian Assembly and only the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15261	With regard to whether the Vice-President was at the Parliament's session, the Parliament worked within the Rules of Procedure. Since the State Secretary was present, he is not obliged to explain to anyone why she is not present here because it is sufficient according to the Rules of Procedure for the Secretary of State to be present. Correction of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15262	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15263	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Byte gave up, thank you too. And another correction to Mr. Ivica Pancic's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15264	When you say half the information comes to me, it's possible. And one of the half of the information from the government's session was that the minister had signed some contracts after his mandate expired. And when I said, since I think it's maybe half the information or the truth, it's about the truth and the one who's been found to be telling the truth, let's get out of politics. That's what I said to the vice presidents of the government. That's what I told Mr. Prime Minister. And that after it was found with the secretary of state that the contracts had been signed earlier, and that they had come from the other side signed after December 23rd. And I repeat once again, let the State's Attorney's office determine who's right, and if there's any honor amongst political officials, including me, let him answer politically. [[That's right. That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15265	I don't know...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15266	But I don't think it's gonna be me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15267	I don't really know what the correction of an incorrect quote was, even though we're being tolerated in this regard to all the MPs. You explained here that whether or not you signed a solution, no one here claimed that you were the Vice President or anyone else, so I don't know what you were correcting. ... So, you abused in a rather drastic way the correction of an incorrect quote, but since we tolerate it to others, that doesn't mean it can go on forever, you know? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now we finally got rid of these corrections and now we have, now we have 10 minutes. Representative Mr. Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15268	Dear Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. As a Croatian defender, a volunteer of the Homeland War and as one of those who organized the people in the area of the former Vinkovci municipality to prepare for the Homeland War, I certainly have something to say and that I must say my opinion because, of course, my friends and comrades expect it. The report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Defence from the Homeland War and members of their family for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2003, and in fact the work of the Defence Minister and the Ministry of Defence is also reflected in the report and of course through this report is seen and what was the relationship of the former authorities to the defenders. What was the relationship between the former government and the defenders is best spoken and the appointment of the defence minister at the time who did not actually have any special connections with the defenders, and then he did not really represent the interests of the defender afterwards. This is my opinion, and I'm sure it's shared by a large number of defenders. He, of course, directed his action to abolish the rights he called "translation" or to translate audits, review without end or end, and suddenly the defenders had to prove that they were real defenders, that they were not false and that, of course, they were exhausted and harassed. This report does not talk about it, it does not say that because of the minister's relationship with the Ministry of Defense, many have been further ill, some have raised their hand to themselves. Because of all of them, I wanted to express my opinion that these dry figures in this report can't really hide and erase everything that happened in relation to the former authorities towards the defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15269	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Correction, correction of incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Ivica Pančić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15270	So what's my connection to the defenses, I don't know. Mr. Chuljak probably acted in Vinkovci in his responsibilities in the '90s. I wasn't in the Vinkovci like he wasn't in the Vukovar that I came out of after his fall. If a link is made to me with the defenders or former government with the defenders, then the current defence minister, or the current government, may also be asked about the defenders. I already have a lot of calling that this government, that the former government had nothing to do with the defenders, so more members of the former government participated in the Homeland War than any HDZ government. Let it be determined, it can be determined. So which is, what is the relationship of the former government to the Croatian defenders... and score 8:0,... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] delivered to the International Court in The Hague, with a smile I see you laughing, so let it serve you honor and pride. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15271	We don't have to talk revolutionaryly and wave our hands. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15272	Mr. President, before we were able to lift the breach of the Rules of Procedure before correcting an incorrect allegation. In fact, Article 214 was injured in a section that says that the MP would be warned if he did not stick to the topic he was discussing in his speech. Kuljak was not discussing the report but a former minister headed by the Ministry of Defence, and he also defamed other MPs specifically fellow Pancic, who he said had killed many defenders because of his work in the ministry, which is a terrible accusation and defamation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15273	I didn't realize it that way, although Mr. Pancic here was talking about a subject that wasn't on the agenda, so I warned him so he didn't get a public notice, so he didn't even get a Culjak according to that criterion is the same. Now the violation of the Rules of Procedure is a representative of Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15274	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The representative Pancic again violates Article 214 after you, Mr. Vice President, once warned him, continues with the same practice and injures Article 214(4) and talks about another topic he did not receive and I ask you to give him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15275	It can't be a correction to the quote, therefore, it couldn't be I thought it was Mr. Culjka's exposure, it can't be corrected. A breach of Rules of Procedure, 214. I think we're in one situation where every time we can lift a tile for the same reason, but we're all about the same thing, so don't overly politically explain something that's not directly related to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, for all of us, and so on for your colleague. And another violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Tomislav Culjak. He's giving up. For 10 minutes, there is a representative, Mr Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15276	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I don't think the Croatian defenders as honorable and responsible people deserve to discuss this character as they did today. Everything and everything, and at least those problems that they are interested in, whose solution we are responsible for, and I certainly hope when we discuss it in a year and have a similar report that the debate will be far clearer, more responsible and more professional because these people deserve it. Of all those issues that are important for the full and quality implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families I will concentrate on only one but I would say a particularly important problem relating to psychosocial assistance to Croatian defenders, or a problem which is unfortunately not a small part of the defence population that suffers from PTSD syndrome. This problem today is one of the most difficult problems facing the Croatian Society and the Croatian Ministry of Defence not only because of the nature and weight of this disease but because of the fact that the number of people who are sick each year as pointed out here is almost 3% higher and that, unfortunately, therapeutic methods are available and everything available to modern medical science is unfortunately insufficiently effective and effective. And that's why this problem deserves a lot more attention, care, engagement and responsibility. In addition to all the important fees that are given, directed towards the defence population, from the compensation for permanent money rights, housing care, salary fees, health insurance rights, I would feel free to say that those funds that are allocated to the psychosocial programme are insufficient in terms of the severity and seriousness of the problem, given that this is a problem that is becoming increasingly difficult year after year. The number of suicides that take place, the number of interventions a year that crosses nearly 30,000 warns that we must seek new opportunities not only of organisation but of new opportunities in order to deal with this problem more effectively and more effectively as a society. What is important to point out is that this is not only the Croatian problem and that many other societies are equally faced with this problem, and I will say one fact that many developed countries are solving and organising to better service PTSD therapy. Unfortunately, here I want to point out one fact that the efforts that have occurred in the Republic of Croatia over the past years in order to be part of the professional, professional, medical and non-medical, scientific not only institution, but to organize individuals to offer a better quality service, unfortunately, such forms of organization and such projects did not have an appropriate social response and it is worrying and I want to say a few words about it. A few words because of the facts as I pointed out are not just an individual's problem, it's a family problem, it's a problem of children living in such a family, it's a problem of the narrow environment but I would say and as we all agree on that is the problem of society. Here, a few findings. In any case, I think it is important to point out that in organisational terms there are appropriate very high-quality solutions at different levels, at national level, at regional level and at local level. However, I am not sure that the priorities are related to the production of suicide registers, that they are solely related to the production of PTSD registers, I would say, and first of all, we must do everything we can to prevent the number of suicides that are growing and worrying more and more year after year. In 2003, the number of interventions amounted to 135 thousand worrying numbers. This number can be because of all of these facts that I said something about which we generally agree to be bigger and bigger, and that means the following, the growing financial resources, the growing problems, the increasing efficiency. For these reasons, I will warn of an initiative on a project that was undertaken in early 2002 called "Integrated Clinical Diagnostics and War PTSD Therapy by using virtual reality technologies". At the beginning of 2000, a letter was made by a series I would say the serious and responsible institutions of the Croatian State, the Clinical Hospital of Dubrava, the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing where the project was proposed. This letter included "This project aims to ensure a more objective way of diagnosing war PTSD using new technologies and to enable more effective and quality therapy of real patients. This would ensure greater fairness in the allocation of limited financial resources in the mood of the Ministry of Defence and better care for real patients by eliminating those who simulate PTSD syndrome.". Given the interdisciplinary character of this project as well as its international dimension, we expected appropriate answers but certainly I was not particularly concerned or surprised by the fact that there was no serious response to this project at the beginning of 2000. What's this about? It is a project which today and today they are working with the relevant Croatian institutions of the world's most prominent institution. I'll mention Walter Reed... Medical center, meaning the world's largest military hospital in Washington, which has special interests in co-operation with relevant institutions in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is an institution that guarantees today in the world the most standard of the care of military injured people and that has a very special interest in solving these problems. In addition to this institution, a number of other institutions from the American side such as the National Marine Centre for Health, a series of prominent universities and I would say unacceptable that we do not have a quality response to this project of such respected institutions that repeat their interest in cooperation with the relevant authorities and institutions of the Republic of Croatia. It's clear to me that it didn't happen after 2000. Today, this project has been introduced to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, who has responded spotlessly to this letter and invited her, and I am using this opportunity to thank her for her attention and understanding that this project is being discussed. The project was introduced to the Deputy Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs who discussed the project in Washington about the project in the Pentagon, the Minister of Science was informed, and I would say that after you, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, have given the appropriate task of making a proper joint meeting, I regret to inform you that this meeting has not been organised and I believe that you will do everything possible to organise it as soon as possible so that this partnership with those prominent institutions that have a special interest in cooperating with the Republic of Croatia, given the fact that we are faced with serious problems in relation to therapy, diagnostics and prevention of false persons who are declared to be suffering from PTSD syndrome. We expect very soon with your support that this project will receive support that is not financial but comes down to the involvement of an appropriate number of people because I have to tell you that the American side has done everything for itself, is ready for this cooperation, is ready for the signing of an interstate agreement, and I think we are responsible for providing these people with the highest quality medical assistance according to modern medical standards in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15277	I thank Representative Cosic. Now ten minutes representative Mr. Damir Spanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15278	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Minister with his associates!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15279	Excuse me. I didn't see it was a replica. Was it a replica? Excuse me, Mr. Spanish, it was a replica before.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15280	Mr Vice-President, during this short period of time since Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, at the Ministry of Croatian Defence, three direct phone lines have been introduced for legal, residential, psycho-social assistance to Croatian defenders to whom more than 7,000 and 200 defenders and members of their families have appeared so far. Over 5 thousand and 933 written statements were also received and answered. Regular monthly incomes were introduced by Minister Jadranka Kosor with Croatian defenders who based on the instructions received on the mentioned telephone lines... as cases of priority resolution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Amendments have been made to the Regulation on the determination of the percentage of damage to the Homeland War HRI in order to eliminate the application of the disputed psychological questionnaire... in the post-traumatic stress disorder diagnostic procedure. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] A multidisciplinary task force has been appointed to develop a proposal for a new psycho-social and health assistance programme for the victims of the Homeland War of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. A programme of medical and psycho-social rehabilitation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War was developed and an expert group was appointed in charge of their implementation. The public has been made aware of the suicide rate in the population of Croatian wartime war invalids of the Homeland War, and in cooperation with the Croatian Institute of Public Health has joined the systematic implementation of this issue. The Law amending the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families has been passed which improves psycho-social care for Croatian defenders and members of their families and corrects injustice against Croatian defenders for a prison sentence of more than six months, which was lost by all their rights under the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15281	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Spanish!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15282	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam of the Resolute Ministry, I welcome you, colleagues and colleagues! Well, I'm sure a lot of people already know what I'm going to say, but I'm going to do it again, maybe for the sake of the Croatian public and for all of us here. So, I am also a volunteer and a disabled Homeland War and the Mayor of the City of Pakrac and we know how the City of Pakrac has experienced war casualties but with the full rights of the people in this area they can discuss and criticise the laws that we are discussing here. Since I am here for the first time in this House, so in this term I can tell you that I am a little bit surprised at the debate of some colleagues, so when in such a one I would say even a funny way to discuss such a very sensitive problem. We will comment on the reports, we will comment on the rights, we will comment on the percentages but, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, this is about the human fates of the people we are here for today and for which we are sitting here today, so we would suggest that we continue to be colleagues and all those who are going to pollemize, and surely that they will focus on the report and even the level that my colleagues from other parties have talked about for me there are two levels, the level of words and the level of deeds. I do not want to comment on the level of the word and talk about the level of the work I can only say that Croatian defenders and all those who enter that category have felt very well the level of work that they are doing, which is that they have been denied a number of rights in the past term. Allow me, just a few more facts from the field. Unfortunately, in the past four years, only two visits to the rest of the ministry to our neighborhood, the Pacrac and Lipik area, and this is on the occasion of the sad anniversary, which is the discovery of the characteristics of mass mushrooms, never a working meeting on the ground, at the invitation of the city administration. The apartments have been built for 6 years now for the victims of the Homeland War, we see from last year's report, we plan until the end of the year 293. Of these 293, 29 apartments are still being made for victims in the pancreatine, and I hope this year will be over. But despite all that, we took care of all the victims, because we gave them city apartments. As for rehabilitation of medical and physical rehabilitation, we can see that our victims were on average in the centres of only 3 weeks last year. I can't interfere in the profession because I'm not a medical profession. But knowing my defenders in Pakrac and their needs and the right to medical rehabilitation, I see that for all the defenders in the past year, a million and 273 thousand kuna have been allocated, which, on average, when we add up everything, in all the centres that were in all the spas, turns out to be about three weeks a year. What particularly bothers me and what, where I want to take a special look at employment. So employment policy, especially those 26 thousand and 362 defenders who were lucky not to go to the category, so the disabled and those other categories closest to relatives than the people who fought and defended, and thank God they didn't get hurt. And when I put that in the percentage of areas of special state care, I see that in those 26 thousand, 19, almost 19 thousand in those zones, of the special state care that is 65% and one sad number that is the most productive year, which is between 30 and 50 years, so the working year that even 75% are in those areas. It was disastrous to use a cash fee from the Employment Service only 1.0%, which for Požega-Slavon County, from which I come from 408 as many as there are at the Employment Office is only 3 defenders. We're seeing the removal from the employment records from the employment office on page 65, and I have to admit that it's a shocking piece of information for me as an agent and a former mayor. In 2002, the defender who failed to report twice to the employment office was wiped out, 6368, 2003, 6812 of Croatian defenders totalling 13180 Croats, people who defended this Homeland, only because they may not have reported twice in a row to the employment office, therefore, because of clean records. The ministry had to deal with these people, and we know that a lot of them from PTSD, so they got sick, and it was supposed to be, no, there was a simple credential cut, all the good news is that it happened and we reduced unemployment by 13180 defenders. The employment incentive program when we've had a little bit of a break in how much it's worth to an individual we see that's 19, 24 thousand kuna. And the incentive program through the Ministry of Small Economy we know that through the credit line went with 100 thousand kunas once, that they were... Credits for, like, 100,000 kuna for a new employee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We see here it's an average of 19, 24 thousand kuna. Customs benefits, and customs benefits are a good indicator of the economic situation last year. Customs benefits for machines, therefore for self-employment and the rest were used by 40% of the less Croatian defenders, which is only one indicator of what was the situation last year and the economic climate that prevailed in Croatia last year. And something to end. Fellow MPs 21. 11. In 2003, therefore, two days before the parliamentary elections, Mother Dr. Ivan Sheter, and we know who Dr. Ivan Sheter, who we don't even know where he's buried today because he's been killed badly, has been given a solution where her rights are annulled, acquired by the rights of everything he's done. Ivan Sheter for the Western Slavonia area. 21. 11. In 2003 a copy of this issued solution... I've got the departments archived. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why for the end. Maybe two messages. We watch little of the countries of the European Union and of America care and honor to their veterans, their own wars. We had the Homeland War and colleagues from the previous Valda who spoke here, thank God the new law is coming here today and I am sure that this new law will permanently restore the pride and honor to Croatian defenders, Croatian victims because we are sitting here in this hall with good wages thanks to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15283	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote, Ivica, Mr. Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15284	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry there's no Deputy Prime Minister. I, as a minister, sat down even though I had some other obligations, but well, that speaks more about the ministry's policy. What I would say to the exposure of the esteemed Spanish gentleman, that many rights have been denied. I'd like that to be argued. What took place in this current law is that a certain redistribution followed, a financial redistribution. And as for the real So it's not true that many rights have been denied, as much as there has been an expansion of rights. [[Agreement: Correction, correction because this is his question whether.]] So let's say the right to supply that today applies to all Croatian defenders unable to attract, means the socially most vulnerable group. For example, this is one important right and the other is that the extended rights for Croatian defenders have been affected by PTSD, the possibility of reporting after that illogical period of 30 days every two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15285	Thank you very much. Now Mrs. Kočića Chicin-Shain. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15286	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr Vice President, I would like to join in this debate in that segment relating to the housing of defense attorneys. Namely, I do not know if you were familiar with the previous period in the period of coalition government I acted as assistant minister in the construction of apartments and the preparation and organisation and management of dwellings for the housing of defenders. And also in our ministry, there was a program called the so-called program. one-time cash aid in contrast to technical equipment and the difference in the construction of squares. In this debate, I actually got involved today for two reasons. First of all, I'd like to introduce all of our parliamentary representatives to some of them, perhaps unknown information, which is, for example, an example. that it is from 3 January 2000 to 19 January 2000 during the term of office. 12. In 2003 from the title of building apartments for residential care of defenders and victims, etc., built 3869 apartments. I would also like to present this opportunity with the fact that 1376 apartments were built in the earlier government, so from 1997 to 1999. I won't comment, but the numbers speak for themselves best. As far as these apartments are concerned, it is an investment that has cost the investment government a billion kunas. At the same time, we built 50 houses worth 55 million for 100% HRVII and groups while during the same period from 97th to 99th year 33 HRVI homes were built. While 33 HRVI homes were built in the same period from 97th to 99th year, 100% of the group was built. What hurts me today, however, and why I actually got involved in this debate today is the fact that today, practically, in the 7th month, 6 months after the arrival of the new government and the establishment of a new government still stands a large number of apartments throughout Croatia undivided to Croatian defenders. If you want colleagues I will now read about which facilities and what number of apartments it is. It's 104 apartments in Zadar, it's 106, 136 apartments in Spain, it's about apartments in Turnje where we pass every day when we drive to the Adriatic next to an empty building that is automatically empty where this country has invested huge funds, and we are witnessing completely empty apartments. Gentlemen, what are you doing at the Ministry? Besides this data that really worked on me and every time they do, they're asking me to react to it, and I'd like to say something else. As for one-time cash support. That is, these are the credit funds that were given to the Ministry of Public Works in 2002 to be handed over to the Ministry of Defence at the end of 2002. The other day, two months ago, I sent an inquiry to today's Ministry of Defence where I asked about a man, about a person who came to me from Vukovar, a gentleman named Robert Knezevic, to give me an answer when that fee would be paid to the gentleman? I would like to point out in your reply that it is ‘98 ’ to Mr. in 1998, so 6 years ago, there was a right and a solution to reconstruction. On, after the renovation was done for the same papers he had beside... papers and the right to additional final work. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's how you answer. And I know it's true. The gentleman who had the right to gain his right is a son named Robert Knezevic, who, however, led the dispute over, about his status in the Croatian army in terms of whether he was permanent or was, or had a temporary solution and after the end of his dispute, he requested that he be granted this one-time cash support. And in our ministry then in 2000, he was accepted his solution and given a solution. As the payment was long awaited in the meantime, he was found on August 19, 2002, and since then, no funds have been paid to that man. But what's most interesting is that my inquiry went according to when a man will be solved, you answer to me in the end that from the above, it is visible when the case will be solved. I would also like to show you to the president of this high house to look and that he tells me whether he can undoubtedly conclude from this when a man will be paid. I'll leave this to you. Thank you very much. Ma'am, I've taken care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15287	Thank you very much to Mrs. Alenki Kosha Chichin-Shain and five minutes on behalf of the club. Who's straight? [[I can, can I do it then?]] Yes, you can. Who's the correcting of an incorrect quote? It's nobody. And, Prime Minister, here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, here I would like to thank first of all the distinguished representative for inciting a debate about this problem at all because it is a very important and big problem and we didn't want to open it here, but it might be a good thing it's open. The question of building apartments, and why isn't a large number of apartments still inhabited? For the simple reason that the quality of building these apartments is very questionable and that works are done on the vast majority of these apartments. I would even suggest here, Mr. Vice President, that a parliamentary delegation tour these apartments and see what condition they are in and what situation they are in. And I would love to compare the apartments that were built for defenders and those who were in a special program to compare the quality of each other. So here's the proposal if it's accepted that one parliamentary delegation gathers and visits all the apartments that are still uninhabited. It's not just Zadar. We have here in Zagreb, we don't have to travel far. We've got a little thing going on here, so it can be done very successfully. The second question was even the question of the price of these apartments, given that in this building for defenders, the obligations of local self-government units were to secure land and municipal infrastructure for the construction of apartments, which were mainly local self-government units and executed, and the price of these apartments was 750 EUR per square metre for defenders. And what's most important in the whole story, and what's often been created by the public fam that defenders get these apartments, they get nothing but ransom and have the ability to buy apartments. Only recently did the government reduce the price of these apartments by its decision in towns of less than 10,000 inhabitants and in areas of special state interest by 30%.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15289	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote has two. Mrs. Alenka Koèa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15290	Thank you. I would correct the allegations relating to the quality of the apartments from the title that all the apartments were jobs or apartments in, in order to take care of the victims of the Homeland War built construction companies that have a license in Croatia. So we can't talk about questionable quality because it's all qualified and licensed construction companies were building. Secondly,...... Second...... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15291	Please allow me... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15292	Is there anything you'd like to say to your colleagues? ... I'm sorry, I heard wrong. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] The second I'd like to ask you, given the fact that you're talking about the Little One. The mall is not a finished building but I mention Zadar and Turanj which are completely completed apartments where every day whoever passes sees the building from the outside. Both buildings have a valid license and have passed a technical examination. And finally another third, don't forget that the construction has kept 10% of the investment to remove the bank's shortcomings and guarantees. Two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15293	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15294	I give up, it's already been said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15295	Thank you very much. Now, five minutes on behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15296	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, first of all, on behalf of the HSP Club, I must express dissatisfaction during today's debate because unfortunately, the defenders and members of their families can't especially serve us here for political divisions and for various debates away from the fundamental topic of today's debate, which is the legal position of the dead Croatian defenders, Croatian defenders, volunteers of Croatian defenders, volunteers and all other participants of the Homeland War. So I think we should discuss these things without applying and without further sharing this population that created today's state. As far as I'm concerned, there are other things I need to mention here. The first thing Mr. Secretary of State said was that much was done in terms of changes and additions. The HSP club asked first to abolish translation in the way it was implemented. The government therefore accepted the initiative. The truth waited for two months. The HSP Club asked that apartments could be leased because we know what the situation was that most of them couldn't get into the part at all because they weren't creditworthy because that institution had granted apartments but went through loans, and the majority of people were not creditworthy and had not been very well done if 30% of the price was reduced in the areas of special state care if it was known that up to 99 m2 was costing about a thousand DEM. A thousand DEM cost m2 when VAT was introduced so it would be in translation somewhere around 600 € would be a real price for apartments. The second is also incorrect is what Mrs. Koši says, 3300 apartments were in various stages of completion in 99. 3300 apartments in various stages. Zadar was supposed to be finished in 2001, Zagreb, Maleshnica and this was supposed to be almost the same in 2000 and 2001, I don't almost know why. And I also have to say that I've pointed out to the Ministry and to everyone for the Chasma case where the victims were also emigrated, there's a significant number of shortcomings, but nothing has been done. Second, as at the HSP club, we are pleased that the government finally came out with its bill of law, the truth is just showing us the front page, and I would pray that we, too, have put our law in the process so let us get to know each other. I don't know how you'll make it through the summer period to conduct a public debate. We had a public debate about our law all the time. That's why we went with the law waiting six months and we referred it to the adoption process because we need to be aware that since the 9th month, the budget for 2005 is beginning to be considered. So that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15297	I thank Mr. Peri Kovčević. To correct the incorrect quote, Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15298	Mr. Vice-President, I would like to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Kovacevic in which he argues that this debate on the report of the Croatian Defence Ministry's work in the past period serves as a political division and bickering. It is not your claim that this debate serves but that it is true that we are talking about the figures that have been done in the past period and what injustices Croatian defenders have experienced in the period of 2003 alone. How many statuses were abolished we talked about and we didn't fight politically or compete.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15299	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15300	Mr Djakic injured Article 209(2). He corrected my opinion. I said it was a debate, and if he didn't listen well to the video, then he'll see what he was saying today, and then we'll see if there was any politicization or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15301	Thank you. All the applicants got their word, the debate was exhausted. I'm closing the debate. The vote will take place when the conditions are met, tomorrow probably.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15302	Report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2003. The debate is closed. I give the vote the following conclusion: A report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2003 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 116 votes in favour and four abstentions, the proposed conclusion is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15303	We should now move to the 14th item of the agenda – Report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia, however, we do not have the conditions for this debate, since the applicant is not present, and this is Prof. Dr. Pero Luka's chairman of the board of directors. He's in the river. Once the terms are secured, then we'll discuss this item on the agenda. So the applicant of the Report is the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia. We move to the 15th point - the final report on the jobs and resources allocated to the census, households and apartments in 2001 in accordance with Article 34. Census, household and housing laws for 2001 The State Administration submitted that report. You received the material by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session, the government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Mr Marijan Gredelj is the representative of the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15304	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15305	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the government want a representative? He's gone. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mrs Babic-Petricevic. Mrs. Zdenka Babic-Petricevic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15306	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Gredell, ladies and gentlemen. Since this is the final report on the jobs and resources spent on the 2001 census, households and dwellings, thank God it is finally but it is not long, it is short, so I will try to be brief about the list of population, households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia as planned, it was processed from April 1st to April 15th 2001. It was a regular census in a ten-year cycle conducted according to the United Nations resolution. It is a special feature of this list that he conducted in the independent Republic of Croatia. According to the law, the State Bureau of Statistics was the holder of the preparation of the organisation and implementation of the census for certain categories of population, and in addition to the State Office were the competent Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Croatian citizens of the Republic of Croatia employed in diplomatic and consular representations at work or abroad, as well as the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice, administration and local self-government of persons located in their facilities. In all the districts and the City of Zagreb, a list was organised and implemented according to the relevant regulations, there were relevant committees that directly or through their bodies in municipalities in accordance with the provisions of the law and the instructions of the State Statistics Institute carried out the regulation. The census would be happier if this number was greater than 4 million 437 thousand and 460 inhabitants. I hope with our commitment and concern for the future of the Croatian state in 10 years this list will certainly be richer than it is because this list was implemented within the legal deadline and is normally expected to be implemented within the legal period because all the institutions that carried out this list had a great obligation and responsibility for what took place 15 days from April 1st to April 15th and before that, and also after that at the time of the report, that is, to this day since this is the final report. But since I told the State Statistics Institute which was tasked with carrying out a census in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs played a special role, and this is a relatively large number of our citizens still working abroad and should have been covered by this list. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia, based on the Law on Census of Population through its diplomatic and consular network, had to organise a list abroad. Other Croatian associations, cultural and sports, Croatian Catholic missions and good people who wanted to join the 2001 census were hired to ensure the fullest and fullest coverage of our citizens abroad. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs delivered 120,000 lists through our state offices. These lists could be obtained on the Internet. The lists according to the instructions could be copied, and I think that everything that was done was not enough as we worked on the list of residents abroad is just as disastrous as he is. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I will say in the end that the census, apart from the European overseas countries, was conducted in Serbia-Montenegro and was listed in Serbia-Montenegro by 36,000 470 persons and in Bosnia and Herzegovina 9 thousand and 805 persons, and unfortunately only abroad 52,000. So, then, abroad there's a total of 98 thousand 992 people that can't possibly be true. At that time, Mr. Gredelj and before that as a representative, I was then in opposition, but I was well-intentioned in all ways to get a census in the country, and especially outside the country had to go one other way, which was not done. However, we were also helped by the means of public communication, especially individuals who shared on a small poster the importance of the census where and when the population of the Republic of Croatia can be listed with abroad. However, all of this could not have happened with good will, since it was a short period of time. I guess someone should be responsible for that. Since we're not responsible for many other things, I think it can only be fixed for the next 10 years. Here, in the name of the Croatian Democratic Community, this report of yours, and in the end, we will take it to the knowledge, which is common in the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament. There's nothing else we can do, but I'm just going to say for a little while here that I've been looking for and thinking about what the item is and where is the item of how much money has been spent through our state representations that were supposed to do the job that was in their domain. Well, here's the specification of spent funds per year, I'm looking here, writing payments on the ground, distribution of forms, building maintenance, field organisations, insurance of participants' signatures, expenses for new employees, computers, equipment, student service services, other expenditures, etc., etc. This report is written on one side, it would be said in our folk speech. It does not show how you spend funds, whether or not purposely. If you had done so then I would have seen how much it cost the population list abroad that was catastrophic, and these reports were written by gentlemen and you know it, Mr. Gredelj, were written by people who didn't carry out the 2001 census because after the census many were replaced, as has happened to the Director of the State Statistics Office. As I said, the Croatian Democratic Community is taking this report into account and I hope it will be better, more constructive in 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15307	Thank you very much. Other clubs did not report, and Mrs Zdenka Babic-Peterevic appeared in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm sure every topic in this Croatian Parliament is special, it has its meaning. The 2001 census is also of great importance. I, as parliamentary representative of the 11th constituency, must point out once again what happened at the time of the 2001 census, which is next. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in accordance with Article 19 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law only organised previous lists of persons working and staying abroad which lasted 15 days before a specified deadline before 1 to 15 April. The foreign ministry provided lists of around 200 thousand in diplomatic consular offices. They had an obligation to also form delivery patterns in our citizens' associations abroad. In collaboration with the Bishop's Conference, the State Statistics Office sent forms to about 200 addresses of Catholic Croatian missions in the world. Somewhere with 150 thousand tickets. Less forms have been sent to overseas countries with a photocopying manual. In order for me to repeat this one more time, and repeat that catastrophic data that this list covers, which includes 52 thousand 717 people. Mr. Gredelj, just one example, compare this data that is final in the 2001 census with what I am about to tell you, and I can also cover it in writing. In 1998, at the end of my term as the General Consulate of the Republic of Croatia in Stuttgart, I requested official data from the Department of Statistics of the province of Baden Wutenberg and received results. There were 136 thousand Croatian citizens, or Croatian citizens, reported there. I am sure that out of these 136 thousand certainly 80% were with the place of residence in the Republic of Croatia which do not come only once a year to the Republic of Croatia but who come thank God several times. So, by law, according to the 2001 Census Act, they were covered. As I said, only with this comparison did you see that this list for 2001 failed, and if the vote in the Croatian Parliament now was who accepts this report, I, as the representative of the 11th electoral unit, could only react to that because I would raise my hand against it. But I'm sure there's nothing you can do right now, and I can't do anything with my "yes" or "no" right now. But then I repeat once again, as representative of the 11th constituency, then the opposition MP indicated that it was a short time to conduct the 2001 census. I pointed out what other countries were doing at the time of the presignature of the population, pointing out what had to be done. But nothing happened, so nothing happened to that person or the foreign minister he was responsible for. Now this gentleman who was responsible for the list of the population of Croatian emigrants, or Croats outside the country with the place of residence in the Republic of Croatia, has received the award and is now the Croatian ambassador in one country. On this occasion, I will only thank all Croatian Catholic missions and all those people who did what they did at the time, and only in this way came to this, and to this defeating figure. If you spent more money on a census abroad, then the data would be better. If you were more responsible, you'd be better. So I ask you, why did you reward the people who are after, and I don't know what these rewards are. I hope you'll answer me for the rewards of 8 thousand kuna, 19 people, 19 employees in the first group. In the second group of 4 thousand employees, 4 thousand kuna for 36 employees. Any person who does a good job must be rewarded. If you've still had a job like this about this part that I'm telling you, you've rewarded individuals, then it's an honor. And explain to me, can I and when will I get an answer... Please, Mr. Gredelj, how much funds have been spent through our state representations for the list of Croatian citizens abroad with residence abroad, and it has included the 2001 Census List Act. [[You can't hear the phone.]] So I'm going to go ahead with the awards, so I might not have the right to talk about the awards, maybe you've spent more money on this, so I happen to have this list of 52,000 people, and in only one province I'm sure there are 25 thousand Croatian citizens, the city of Hamburg and the surrounding Hamburg. There are 42,000 Munchen, with the Munchen centre and a narrow surroundings, so you can list it by morning, and when you tell me if all these people have Croatian passports I'm talking about Croatian citizens with the place of residence in the Republic of Croatia who are supposed to be listed in the 2001 census in the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15309	Thank you very much. We have a replica of Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15310	Mrs. zastava came entirely unfoundedly to Mr. Gredelj and then mentioned the Law on residence, because there were also more people who had not only once appeared in Croatia who had the right to reside, that is the truth of our House Act. If there's anything we need to change, it's this Law because there's no country in the world that doesn't control the residence of its citizens and it has to be.... the definition of residence is somewhere to live, where to work, where taxes are paid. Watch out for us in Makarska the eve of the election I discovered that there are so many people, that flat creatures, so not three-dimensional would not fit into that house as much as the person is reported and then the rights, all donations and donations are drawn, but when it comes to paying for the alimony then he is gone, then he doesn't live there. Please, this is a serious problem that we're asking for the government to be taken into account so that the residence law is changed to find effective residence control mechanisms because it's control of our assets if the government doesn't do so will do SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15311	Thank you very much. The reply to Mrs Zdenka Babic-Petricevic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15312	Ma'am, you said if the Croatian government won't change the Law on residence then the SDP will do it for 72 years and that's why people live where they live, they're your predecessors. Secondly, I told Mr. Gredel that those people who were not included under the 2001 census law were to be included and you were the minister of justice with the place of residence in the Republic of Croatia who came to the Republic of Croatia not only once a year but every time. And if it weren't for Croatian people who often come to the Republic of Croatia, who help their families who have a double residence or who pay double tax or if you want to live from two countries, because they have one country, then the social records in Croatia would be a little higher and you need to know that Croatia's emigration still brings more annually than the Ministry of Tourism. That could not be denied to me by your Mr. Minister of the Church, nor could I be denied by Mr. Minister Calmett, I would like to be denied one day. And it's a pity there's no more time for me to answer you, and that's Madam Minister of Foreign Affairs and his secretary of state when it came out that the Croatian Catholic missions were included in the list of people abroad who were then withdrawn, who then got fired I won't call them here because it's not nice to handle names and they're not here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15313	Thank you very much. Before that, Mrs. Zdenka, before that, I have to make amends, namely Mrs. Anticevic-Marinovic is not a minister but a representative. And now the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Ms Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15314	It was not only an incorrect allegation, but it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, because the MPs, or MPs, had to give a warning, not she did not demean me but unnecessarily exalted me, and if Article 214 did not foresee it, but with this ad minor argument, the ad mayus would have been able to conclude it, but you did it before me, so I thank you. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15315	Anyway, if you think being a minister is something sublime. Did you, ma'am, ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yes, it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15316	214th and 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6th, I did not tell my colleague Antunovic that she was now a minister but a former minister, at the time, excuse me, Ingrid Anticevic, according to whether she was Maria, that Maria would have been different. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on]] And as former minister, sir, as former minister of justice, she had to know and it was pointed out in her time that the census of the population abroad was not going the way it should be done and that you didn't love those people for 72 years, but now we're equal, in this house, at the same table, the same constitution, the same laws. He puts up with me. I'm putting up with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15317	Thank you very much. No, I didn't hear you say former minister, and neither did you, let's not go any further about it, you didn't say ex, you said in that minister situation. So I think that's settled, we don't have any more corrections. I'm closing the debate. The vote will be when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15318	Finally, the report on jobs and funds spent on the census, households and apartments in 2001. The debate is closed. I give the vote the following conclusion: A final report on the jobs and resources spent on the 2001 census is accepted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 121 votes for and 1 abstention, the proposed conclusion is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15319	We move to the 16th item of the agenda - Annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency in relation to state support and the annual State aid report for 2003. In accordance with Article 19. The State aid Act, the Competition Protection Agency, submitted that report. You received the material by mail, the discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on... Integration. You received the reports at the session. Did the government deliver an opinion? The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? I'd like you to introduce yourself to the motionary because this is where Olga Spevec is named.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15320	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. The first annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency is before you in relation to state aid and the annual State aid report for 2003, which shall be submitted by the Agency in accordance with Article 19. The State aid law has an obligation to submit to the Croatian Assembly for adoption. The report is designed to give a brief explanation of legal and sublegal solutions related to this matter on its first part. For reasons for which State support should be monitored and approved in general by bodies such as the Agency for the Protection of the Competition of European Solutions and the activities taken by the Agency in 2003 and 2004 to implement the law. The second part of the report shows state aid in 2002 and 2003 according to a methodology consistent with the methodology in the European Union. State support is normally defined as a form of state intervention with the aim of encouraging some economic activity, sector or business. According to the State aid Act, all actual and potential expenditures or reduced revenues of the State were allocated by state aid providers which distort or threaten to distort competition by conferring benefits on the beneficiary of State aid regardless of the form of State aid. It should therefore be pointed out that state aid is considered solely by those expenditures which have an impact on competition and on trade with the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Stabilisation and Association Agreement is incompatible with this Agreement, I quote, incompatible with this Agreement is considered to be any State aid which distorts or threatens to distort competition, favouring certain entrepreneurs or certain products. However, according to the State aid Act, state support for the mitigation or elimination of damage caused by natural disasters, exceptional or wartime circumstances, State aid that promotes the economic development of an area with an unusually low standard of living or high unemployment, support for the purpose of promoting culture and the protection of heritage, support for the implementation of significant projects or the elimination of difficulties in the economy, support for encouraging certain economic activities or certain economic areas, etc. State aid may be granted in the form of direct subsidies from the budget of more favourable loans of state guarantees, tax exemptions or tax exemptions, reduction of contributions and write-offs. By selling state assets below the market price and in other ways. Let me look back at the agency's work over the past period in terms of state support. Jobs of approval, supervision and reimbursement of general and specific state aid were assigned to the Agency by adopting the State aid Act and the State Aid Regulation. In fact, I already mentioned Article 70. The Stabilisation and Association Agreements Croatia has committed to establishing an operational independent public body which will be entrusted with the powers necessary for the full application of the provisions of the agreement relating to state support. The Agency started with activities related to the implementation of the Law and the Regulation at the end of 2003 when it was appointed and the work started by the Competition Protection Council. The change of the organisation of the agency according to the new Law on the Protection of Competition and the Law on State Support also required the adoption of a new statute of the agency adopted by the council and confirmed in the Croatian Parliament on 30 January 2004. The Statute establishes a specific sector for state aid, thus obtaining formal conditions for carrying out State aid-related operations. In the previous period, in order to establish a system of state aid, the Agency focused primarily on establishing cooperation and regular communication with the competent authorities of the State Administration, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, ministries and state offices in order to create conditions for the application of the law. The abovementioned entities are also well aware of the obligations they are obliged to carry out in respect of State aid resulting from the law, regulation and Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In addition, for the purpose of respecting binding deadlines and further development of the State support system, the agencies have directed appropriate activities towards the production of all necessary instructions, forms, registers and other documentation necessary to bring existing support to the law and regulation. In order to adapt the provisions of the law to the new organisation of the Agency and to supplement certain provisions of the law, the Agency has drawn up a proposal to amend and supplement the law in question and referred them to the competent ministry as an initiative to amend the law resulting in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Aid Act. In accordance with the obligations set out in the national programme and the implementation plan of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Competition Protection Council adopted and proposed to the Government the adoption of a dynamic programme, the harmonisation of existing State aid programmes with the criteria set out in Article 70(2). Stabilisation and Association Agreements between the Republic of Croatia and the European Communities and their Member States as well as the adjustment programme of the state aid system in the Republic of Croatia with the State aid system in the European Community. These programmes were submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for acceptance. The Agency has established cooperation with scientific institutions, for example with the Institute of Public Finance, which is currently working to implement several projects in the area of state aid. The agency also established international co-operation with the State Aid Control Sector of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia. Furthermore, since it is a completely new system and material that has not been legally regulated by law and regulation, professional training of staff is carried out in both the Agency and other state administration bodies. The implementation of the said task shall be carried out by the Agency through a CARDS programme financed by the European Union. The CARDS project began in March 2004 and will be implemented by the end of 2005. Compared to the second part of the report on the amounts and indicators of the structure and trends in the state support system, let me briefly state aid data in 2002 and 2003. In 2003 state support amounting to 5 billion 987 million kuna was granted in Croatia, which is less than in 2001 but more by almost 22% compared to 2002. The share of state aid in the gross social product, which was 3.9% in 2001 in 2002, is 2.8% while in 2003 the share of state aid in the gross social product is 3.2% and 2.1% without agriculture. In accordance with the provisions of the laws and methodologies of the European Union, state aid is shared on horizontal, sectoral and regional and state support for agriculture and fisheries. Horizontal State aid is directed at all sectors or entrepreneurs and is therefore considered to be significantly less disturbing competition than sectoral ones assigned to individual economic branches and groups. The aim of regional state aid is to prevent the concentration of production in certain areas and to stimulate the economic development of poorer areas or areas lagging behind in the development of the overall economy. According to the above categories, the majority of state aid in 2002 and 2003 relates to sectoral support that accounts for 51.2% in the structure of the total state aid in the previous year. The share of horizontal support is almost minor because it accounts for only 6.9% in the structure of total state support. What encourages the trend in the growth of horizontal state support in 2003. A significant increase in the share of regional support was also seen from 0.7% in 2002 to 4.4% in 2003. By comparing the support structure according to the mentioned categories in the Republic of Croatia and the European Union in 2002, we will see significantly different relations. While horizontal support in the European Union in 2002 is 51% of the total aid granted, in Croatia it is only 6%. On the other hand, the share of sectoral support in the Republic of Croatia is 58% and only 21% in the European Union. In our country, support for agriculture and fisheries accounts for 36% in the support structure and 28% in the European Union. The purpose of this report is to transparently and transparently show support in the Republic of Croatia so that the system can be improved in a way that, with the reduction of the allocation of support, they focus on the objectives that can contribute to the growth of the overall economy, which can be expected first of all from support with horizontal objectives. It should also be noted that this first report does not provide final data and that they will be corrected when the Agency establishes a system as a whole, or when state support providers agree to programmes, criteria and criteria for the approval of general and individual State aid, which is necessary in cooperation with the relevant ministries during 2004 in order to fulfil the tasks set out in the Law on Expensive Support and Obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We'll finally do it again next time. It is doubtless that state support represents public funds that must be used in a meaningful and efficient manner and their spending must be shown in a transparent manner at any time. The following period must be marked before the Agency and the lecturers of State aid as a period of harmonisation of existing programmes under which State aid is granted or existing programmes must comply with the criteria and criteria resulting from the new State aid system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15321	Thank you, Mr. Nikola Popovic. Do the committee's rapporteur want to take a word for it? They don't want to. Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. On behalf of the SDP Club, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15322	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the agency, colleagues and colleagues. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement is an obligation to bring state support into line with the social support system in the European Union. During this phase of harmonisation, the Republic of Croatia took over two basic, two basic obligations. This is the establishment of an authorised body to set up a general and individual support programme and to monitor the legality of granting and ensuring transparency in the granting of state aid, i.e. regularly delivering annual State aid reports to the European Union in accordance with the methodology and display used in the countries of the European Union. The State aid law came into force on 2 April 2003. The law found that the authorised body is the Competition Protection Agency. Today we are discussing the first State aid report provided by the Agency as an authorised authority for the approval of the general and individual support programmes. We estimate that the report at this first stage of tracking state aid is good. In the opening section, it provides a review of the rules and definitions relating to state aid which facilitates the understanding of the report itself. We also support the Agency's conclusion that, with the creation of a legal framework, it is necessary to work on the implementation of the system in practice, which involves professional training and staffing, thereby reducing the form of state support to competition. State support is also shared in three categories under our State aid Act: horizontal, regional and sectoral. In this report, we can track them just like that. This is also the horizontal support provided to all entrepreneurs in the market and concerns support for research and development, environmental protection, rehabilitation and restructuring, cooperation with medium and small entrepreneurs, for employment, training and culture. In 2000, a total of just over 287 million kunas or 5.8% were allocated to these support, while this increased significantly in 2003 when just over 412 million kunas or 6.9% of total paid support were allocated. We believe that in the future these types of support should increase their participation in the total paid aid. Regional support shall aim to encourage less developed areas identified by the regional state support map and relate to transfers from the budget, tax relief, favourable loans and the like. In 2002, only 35 million kuna or 0.7% were paid in 2003, more than 262 million kuna or 4.4% and further 300 million total support at local level, which are said to have no data on individual visions, i.e. by which types it was paid. This type of support should also be increased in view of the significant differences in the development of certain areas in Croatia in the future. Therefore, we are concerned that the tax system will be changed more significantly in a way that reduces relief. Sectoral support relates to the production of steel on land, maritime and air transport and shipbuilding. The assessment is that this type significantly disrupts competition and does not address structural adjustment, so this should also be taken into account in Croatia. For these support in Croatia, the largest part of the support is allocated, in 2002 it is 2.8 billion or almost 58% while in those and in 2003 it grows to 3.1 billion but due to the increase in total support it reduces their share to 51%. The majority refers to transport and is followed by shipbuilding and tourism. In Croatia, the special legislation regulates support in agriculture, which in 2000 amounts to a billion and 7070 million or 36% and in 2003 grows but somewhat slower than it is allocated for total support to a billion and 950 million or participates with 32.4%. In 2002, around 5 billion kuna and about 6 billion kuna were allocated to the monitoring through the budget, i.e. the accounts of the Ministry of Finance, or a 20% increase in 2003. In conclusion, the Agency concludes that the report is based on state aid granted from the State budget because no own database has been built. It is therefore necessary to provide resources for the Agency to be able to carry out this demanding and significant work. The SDP club assesses the proposed report in a correct manner and will vote in favour of its acceptance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15323	I thank Mrs. Representatives, dear Zgrebec. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative of the Arthrial Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15324	Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, given that the first report could be summed up in one sentence and say HDZ will take note or accept this report. However, as this report seems to me, and in some ways because it is first and perhaps for some other reasons almost unique. It is worth pointing out, however, a few notes along with this report but with a view of course to correcting the shortcomings observed in future times and future times. Only the report is technically divided into two parts as we see it and this first part we think is too detailedly referred to as being referred to the average, below the average reader. I think that for the Parliament, regardless of what is first and whatever these terms are, it's too detailed, so it can actually be asked whether the purpose of the report is to explain the theoretical concepts or concepts or, on the other hand, to give a truly final assessment of the purpose of use or release anyway, public funds or transparent monitoring of the use and use of these funds. What the agency should end up doing. So in this first part there is actually nothing to comment on and as such can be accepted but in any case this second part will need in future reports completely different to present with more data of course. It's perfectly clear that it's in line with the agreement... accepted both the way and the report but it is obvious from both this monitoring and the report that the Agency itself admits first that there is no database and everything else that arises and this is clearly seen from this report when it is well analyzed. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's just a few more facts with that. The agency itself in this second section when it says the agency's work concludes that the statute was passed at the end of the year. It can therefore be concluded in that part that she could not actually work because given the time period in which she was in some way... the established and adopted the necessary acts she could not actually work with. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also necessary to identify the difficulties and structural, structural structure of the agency itself. I don't think it's that important for the effects or the results because it's still a period of staging as well as the education of the staff that will be organized. So this report can, in fact, be accepted in some way only as information and also as short information, and not in detail... about that. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the case of the State aid report in this second part, of course, we can again accept perhaps nominal observation or relative observation in the structure according to the budget or the amount of funds that are allocated and by purpose and species that are isolated. It would also be difficult to assess from this report whether we have achieved the goal we wanted, and all of this is aimed at regulating certain, as the agency itself says market relations and whether we have achieved the macroeconomic effects we wanted in particular, achieved in a particular sector, and whether we have coordinated this, in some way, the impact of the market mechanism. It seems to me that, either I couldn't, or we couldn't achieve a complete assessment that we had achieved the effects that we naturally set, we wanted to achieve out of it. Why? So when we look at the structure and the purpose and use of these funds we see at the end and the report that actually without the database we don't have feedback what actually happened? Well, of course, there are certain dilemmas about whether or not these funds have been spent? Because if we look at them by economic sectors then the total mass nominally we can say here is a little bit or there is a lot, but it's not enough to give a qualitative assessment of the purposes and spending of such funds. It would be good for reports to, regardless of the methodology at the end, be able to monitor the unintendedly spent assets as well as the unintendedly approved discounts if we can say so for reasons that we would know precisely about the individual user, especially the larger user, which is actually happening with these assets at the end of the year in that annual report. It seems to me that we could come up with interesting data and this is how we really can't even know what was going on with the use of these funds. Also, for regional use of funds, we can also say that regionally is spent relatively much or this much, so it could either be less or more, and again we won't achieve any qualitative assessment but if we had 21 counties or something else or any other possible data, then we could see interestingly probably data in which areas and how these funds were dispersed. Just like the effects they've achieved. Because if we say that public funds, not if we say but the fact, we should also publicly say, "Yes, these funds have achieved that goal, possibly evenly, of use and development." And in that sense, in the very conclusion and acceptance of the fact that this means, or this database, which is not set up, cannot be an excuse that we couldn't give a little effort yet to get some data because I guess the Ministry of Finance that had some of the information in the last year probably had enough data to give a minimum assessment of the objectives and results of such objectives that the Government had, of course, passed and how we achieved them at the end of this reporting period. For this reason, this report can only be accepted or taken into account but without a deeper analysis and concrete data which can be determined from this conclusion that we could direct further use or possibly analyse and direct further discussions which will likely be interesting when we have any rebalancing of the future budget. I thank you and the HDZ will accept or take note of this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15325	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Luka Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15326	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow agents and gentlemen from the agency. This is the first report by the State Competition Protection Agency which was able to prepare this agency and the data shown in this report are based on data from the Ministry of Finance, based on the monitoring of the State budget, which tells us that the report is not and cannot be completely. We're not sure if it's complete and valid. We don't know if the report will be followed by someone from the Ministry of Finance, as I can see, not following or anyone else. I'd like to see a more detailed report here. For example, which companies received support, subsidies, guarantees, which companies signed their debts, and who and who not? I'm not saying all this for no reason. We in Croatia have a practice that has already established the granting of state guarantees by strange criteria because there is a market economy here, I would say only for those naive, and ultimately it is always the same regardless of who is in power. They rarely win the best, they're often politically close people, traditional and cousinly ties without talking about bribery and not talking about it. In all possible combinations of inethicalness, I could say we're in a very envious high place. The principle of something to me, something to you generally understood private property is mine, and taxpayers' debts are taxpayers. We all know that this is a short-term policy, because it certainly doesn't stand a chance on the world market, and it all ultimately falls on the back of workers, and we are ultimately making one big mistake. So I'd like to see here a report not only on the total amount but also on the structure, for the purpose of who, how and why is he using these funds? The practice of countries is economically advanced to share state support in 4 categories depending on what is the ultimate benefit for state aid users. Of course, financial and all state support is the expenditure of the state and the state register and the benefit of the user is dependent on the instrument and can be less than the nominal value of the support. In Table 2 of State support in 2002, they went to the highest extent for subsidies, and most of all to the market. About a million 414, a billion 414 million kuna and, of course, a guarantee of 620 million and something small thousand kuna. In 2003, the situation is very similar, subsidies are increased, but the state guarantees are still lower. I'm going to believe that we in the Parliament deserve constant warnings of caution with state guarantees, because all of this often falls on the burden of the state. He'd only illustrate the guarantees in the shipbuilding in 2002. They exported 253 million kunas, and in 2003. Ten million kuna, but in the same branch, loans and write-offs amounted to 507 million kuna. Transport subsidies are high and I'm a personal opinion, and we at HSS are pretty much asphyxiating the competition. In transport, most of the support goes to traffic on land transport and on railways, in the air for debt write-off and ownership stake in Croatia airlines, and in the maritime support of ports and the promotion of shipping lines and the restoration of the passenger fleet that we know is what it is like. We have a case of our monopolies whose ferry from an independent commission has been evaluated by very bad grades in the last, not long. We know that some have just received a passing score of two, and I can imagine how to pass the ferry like Wanga, Valuna and so on. that you were the same on them. I don't know if the state controls where these money was spent. Our ferrys are old and our travel tickets are too expensive, and our islands are far away, and the state pays subsidies neatly. In the HSS, we think that investment, i.e. state support in certain activities, I have already mentioned traffic here, and this can also apply to any other business branch. These investments do not actually solve real problems but only deepen them and often only delay them, and managements often choose political similarities instead of professionalism and managemental qualities, and they do not have to work hard enough or tell them enough, but they care too much about being behind them, because of course there is a state behind them that will eventually settle all this. And when they forget there's no movement in the economy without a competition, no matter how much support they get from the state. Open the market and competition in all branches, dodidate gradually monopolies of all kinds, so I assure you will quickly surface capable and best and fail alike. Horizontal state support should be encouraged as much as possible because they are fairer and focused on all sectors and less disrupt competition and act positively on the economy, of course, if they are fairly distributed. I would also like to say something about regional support. According to this report, we cannot know how they are deployed and whether they encourage the development of poor areas in the Republic of Croatia. Unequally distributed money damages the growth of the economy and is not stimulating to the economy. We know and there have been a lot of talk recently about the unequal regional development of Croatia and about the social gross product that is so different in each of our regions. According to the report, money for employment is minimal and support for small and medium-sized enterprises is not issued, and without strong promotion of entrepreneurship there is no growth in employment, and entrepreneurship should be one of the foundations of our development. The biggest support in 2002 is for sectoral support and 57.2% in 2003, which is 51.2% less, then in agriculture and fisheries, the share of the horizontal support that I was talking about in 2002 was 5.8% and 6.9% in 2003. But these support should be much bigger, but the joy is still light growth, but it is small, but it is also because of such relationships with us who are not since yesterday, they are transferred from year to year, we are where we are and I have to tell us well how and how we do. In the horizontal sector, most of the money went to interest subsidies, interest rates over HBOR and to a small part for culture, environmental protection. Research and development in 2002 was without support, and in 2003 very little resources were allocated. In the shipbuilding situation, the most money in 2002 went to guarantee subsidies and in 2003 to write off debts and loans, while guarantees were reduced. I wish there was a tax on what shipyards they got, to which loans were written off, to whom and how many subsidies. We need to know where, how and why and what the state money is spent on. In the other sector, money went for example. in the Croatian Post Office, for the dispatch of employees and for the construction of postal offices. However, we did learn something from this report, and these mails came back I remember as mushrooms after the rain at every step that I constantly on the Split-Zagreb route can testify and some have no function at all, even some are closed. I'm not against construction, it's easy to build when you're working on a state burden, if it was from your own profit, it would be much more rational to assure you. Guarantees, subsidies and write-offs were on the part of the Privatisation Fund, so grants, support for entrepreneurs, some newspapers, of course, every government wants some of their own paper, newspapers, they'll pay for all of it even if it was sold in small fees, but that's why I'm surprised at other companies, not a few times I've been asked by what criteria, which is why someone got it and someone doesn't. The financial support reads a 52% reduction, in 2002 and 2003 there is a visible ownership stake in the main part of the Croatian Post Bank. The Republic of Croatia has committed itself to gradually integrating and adapting to the European Community both in the market economy and in the state aid system with the European Union, and in the European Union, support is primarily granted from state resources allocated to an economic advantage to a particular entrepreneur, sector or region, selective support that distorts the balance between companies and their competition and affecting competitiveness and trade between Member States. The funds allocated by the State, i.e. the taxpayers, must be spent on purpose again and again, and their spending must be transparently visible to everyone and to everyone. And I would therefore like the Agency to establish its database and inform us of when, to whom, why it grants support and how these support is spent. If such a report could be made now with more pleasure would accept this report, this is how it is enough for us and incomplete and not enough talking about all the information that I think the MPs should know about. So I expect the next report to be much more detailed and much more transparent in order to support this report with both hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15327	I thank Mr. Representative Luka Roic. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Marco Chirac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15328	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, Mr. Representative of the Agency. In accordance with Article 35 of the Interim Agreement, and Article 70 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Stabilisation and Association Agreements with regard to State aid. The Agency for the Protection of Competition has also been designated as a body responsible for the approval, supervision, recovery of general and individual State aid. The appointment of a competition council in October 2003 and the adoption of a new statute in December 2003 gave rise to conditions for the Agency's work. It was only at the end of 2000 that it was able to start activities related to the implementation of the Law and the State Aid Regulation. Data from the report indicate that at this time the Agency is still insufficiently trained to carry out State aid operations. This points to the need to strengthen the administrative and administrative capacity of the Agency, to professionally improve personnel, to establish its own database that will meet all the conditions for harmonisation, to grant state support to the European Commission's demands. It is therefore precisely up to the Agency to raise the level of application of State aid rules in the framework of its competences and in cooperation with state aid providers in the coming period. It is expected that, among other things, the construction of a comprehensive and transparent state support system will contribute to the implementation of professional personnel training in both the Agency and other authorities of the State Administration through the CARDS programme that is currently under way. The present report states that this is the first report of the Agency based on data from the Ministry of Finance, collected by monitoring the state budget at central government level. The Agency does not have information on the structure of state aid at local level, but has data on the total height. According to data from the Republic of Croatia in 2003, state aid amounting to 5 thousand 987 million kuna was granted. The share of state aid in 2003 per gross domestic product was 3.2%. The largest part of the support is sectoral support while the small amounts relate to the support given in line with the horizontal objectives. Sectoral support in the structure of total state aid is the largest part of state aid, i.e. 51.2% in 2003. The most significant part of the total sectoral support in 2003 is being waste on the market with 23.4% and by shipbuilding with 16.5%, tourism with 3.6%. The second largest support is support in agriculture and fisheries, which are regulated by a special law, with a share in the structure of 32.5% in 2003. However, the share of horizontal support in 2003 is only 6.9% of the total state support. It encourages the growth of horizontal state aid in 2003 as it is aids which are significantly less damaging to competition, and should be reduced in the coming period by the share of sectoral support and by increasing the share of horizontal support for total state aid. The period to be followed should be marked by an increase in the share of regional aid in total state aid, as those currently recorded in the figures are insignificant. In 2003 4.4% of the total state support was made. It is expected that these support will grow in the coming period by making it more necessary to define the regional development policy of the Republic of Croatia in the accession process, and to enable the regional state support system to develop the country as a whole. During the past period, the level of support depended on the possibilities of the state budget, making sure that the defence against war destruction had priority, and only then the main directions of the state development of the Republic of Croatia such as restructuring of the economy, highways, tourism or agriculture. Finally, the implementation of the rules in the field of state support is of exceptional importance not only because of the implementation of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia but also because of the timely business adjustment of our economy to the market conditions of business in which the Republic of Croatia will enter the European Union. In the next period, all programmes and criteria of the support approval criteria will have to be agreed on to simplify and modernise the State support system and increase the transparency of state aid data. State resources should be used in a rational and consistent manner for which they are allocated with a gradual trend in reducing the total allocations. This would bring them closer to the position of the European Council, presented in Lisbon in 2000, in order to achieve less and better quality support. I suggest that the report be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15329	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Milan Meden, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15330	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Since we have indeed heard from the government's promoter and from us critics of criticism and support to this first report of the Agency, I will try to be really specific and only make my point. In the first part of the report, the Agency has given a description of our legislation taken over by the Republic of Croatia and the concept of state aid in the European Union. The categories of state aid are very detailed, and for us MPs, this was indeed an educational material, and besides interpreting the financial amounts themselves, it also provided us with an understanding of the business that the Agency itself is doing. The report itself states in advance that the Agency was able to start activities only after the appointment of the Competition Protection Council by the Croatian Parliament in October of last year and after the adoption of the Statute of the Agency in January this year. Really, very short time. In fact, it can be said that the Agency has yet to be established with organisational units, the State Support Sector, and the associated departments for the State Support System and the State Aid Assessment Department have, in this short time, educated employees. The report also shows that there is a staff fill-up that is obviously a problem or perhaps a chronic problem in this part of the state administration. With the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Croatia has made certain commitments regarding the granting and control of state aid. The Act gives the Agency for Protection against Competition the approval, supervision, implementation and return of general and individual State aid. In this report, at least I did not notice that the recoverys of illegal aid were shown and I conclude that they were probably not there or that they were not controlled by the Department of Assessment of State aid whose organization I believe in the job description of that activity. Under the agreement, the Agency is obliged to draw up a regular annual report according to the European Community methodology. The report itself again states that these methodologies were used only in one part, and I did research on the Internet this morning to compare the missing European Community methodology and I encountered an interesting programme of state aid for 2002 and 3rd of our known financial experts, Marine Kesner Škreb, Ivana Plesa and Mija Nikic, which was carried out in the new "News Letter" as the provisional vote of the Institute of Public Finance. And you can really see how these methodologies are used so that I believe with a little effort in the next report you will be able to very consistently use these methods and use them. Even 2/3 of state aid in Croatia goes to individual sectors and will need to be cut in half to drop to the level of sectoral support in the European Union compared to around 30% of the total support. As the most sectoral aid is poured into the market of shipbuilding and tourism, it is twice as much as the Member States of the European Union, and the sectors should bear the greatest burden on... the Union's criteria. 5 times more state support than the members of the European Union, and 5.5% of their GDP, respectively, last year, Croatia allocated support, while at the same time in the European Union countries, this amounted to only 1%, etc. a very detailed comparison can be found in this project across the countries of the European Community and our country, so that it would be useful for these analyses to be provided in future reports. It will also show what is the goal of our agency’s strategy, but it is also desirable to display it transparently, as all speakers here have said. From the given report it is obvious that there is a chronic lack of control in state finances, and this is with... Croatian information knowledge very much political will simply possible to implement. As early as July 2000, 4 years ago in Brijuni, then Minister of Finance Mr. Mato Churchvenac said the state treasury would become the system as in all the countries in the world the best mechanism for ensuring the rational use of state money at the conclusion of a three-day international conference on state securities in transition countries held in Brijuni where he explained the State Treasury project. The church then pointed out that different accounts and different cost places are being reduced to one account, with it... creating debts and ensuring full control of state finances. He also added but there is something I would like to add specifically says the Church, and this is the state's treasury there is the biggest enemy of all those who have hunted in cloudy state finances. So, if this State Treasury project were successful or if it were finished, you would actually have no problem today having a very transparent display at all cost sites means from all state support. I honestly believe that the State Treasury project has already come to a certain stage... according to my information about 50% so I believe with this base that you have reported as a private base of your agency and with the full support of the State Treasury project, that transparency next year I believe it will be possible. So guys just brave, little knowledge, informative it'll go away. I am giving full support to the agency on the project to manage my own database, but I would like to point out that, in addition to implementing your own database, it is necessary to educate employees, and I hope that you will receive them enough in the coming year to measure the effects of using state support, efficiency and quality, and efficiency of the employees themselves, so it is not enough to measure how effective these state aids are than how well you have distributed them within the agency. So I believe transparency on both sides. I have no further comments on the report, I hope that the following report will be shown as we have said transparently with the results of the impact of certain categories and activities and shown by... The European Union. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15331	I'd like to thank Agent Milan Meden. Does the promoter want to say something final? Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate on this item of the agenda, and I would like to inform you that the session is being held tomorrow at 9:30 p.m. and that we will vote on the completion of the agenda points. WE will also vote on two decisions requiring a two-thirds majority of MPs, which means 102 MPs. For the decision to send our representatives to the Croatian Army in India and Pakistan, or Haiti, so 102 representatives of this Decision. And then after that, we begin with the 17th item of the agenda, the political aspects and qualifications of the incriminating acts of the indictment against General Ivan Cermak and Mladen Markac, so after that. So I ask that we be at 9:30 in the morning so that we can hold this vote and continue the session. I'm closing the session for today, and I wish you good night and good night and watching the game.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-01-0.u15332	Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency in relation to state aid and the annual State aid report for 2003. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: The Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency in relation to state aid and the Annual Report on State aid for 2003 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find it unanimous with 122 votes for the proposed conclusion. In accordance with the proposal of the European Integration Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: The competent authorities are encouraged to provide state support to continue the process of reducing and restructureing state aid systems in accordance with the standards and criteria of the European Union. Second, the Agency for the Protection of Competition is encouraged to establish as quickly as possible a full system of State aid monitoring based on a own database and a methodology of data coverage. Who's in favor of this conclusion? He didn't get the necessary majority. Ladies and gentlemen, we've finished this vote. What? Dear Representative Antun Vujic.
