ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14685	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Let me briefly further explain the reasons why the SDP Club is going with this proposal for a law that is not large. It is a small intervention in the existing health insurance law. However, which is not even too expensive, does not ask for too much money but which enables us to send as many representatives of the people as possible to the citizens of Croatia about what and what kind of family policy we advocate and how we realise and realize both the strategies and policies that we have and in this Croatian Assembly seem to have consensually adopted. I would like to remind you that last year we adopted a very high-quality comprehensive, comprehensive and operational project called "National Family Policy" which is printed in some way, not in any way obliging all those who participate in the creation of family policy to adopt and implement what we have adopted. In one place, the text says that future family policy should be built on two rebel points. The first is the employment of women or other foster parents. And the second point is the development of family services as a support to the two-nutrition model. Of course, there is still a need for rapid and radical changes in family policy in scarcity and mass unemployment. It is about the long-term focus of family development, family policy. This means that solutions should not in any way be sought in various forms of the retraditionalisation and retention of women in the family as it has explicitly stemmed from some previous solutions, but as the European documents normally claim the necessary reconstruction of work and family, the redistribution of the role within the family or modern integration of work and family. In this context, the family itself will be founded on different basics than traditional family models that were solid, biological, economic and social, some kind of block opposite nature. That part of the implication is actually speaking I would say about the fundamental orientation of what we should insist on in the decades ahead of us and because of what on many occasions and in this House I would say whether politically, ideologically or not I do not know which other commitment of those who have lamentated these attitudes will say over the catastrophic state of the nation. In this bill we try to take one more step towards solving and this problem although I must say that in the first place, the consequences will not produce as an effect I do not know how much increased child birth in Croatia. In fact, the purpose of this law is to make it possible to de-distribute the amount of maternity benefits to women who, before going on maternity leave, made more than four thousand and 250 kuna limited and thus directly brought to an unfavourable position by those mothers, because they are often paid this fee and reduced twice compared to what they earned before going on maternity leave. In reason of the government which does not accept the proposal for these amendments, it is said that in Croatia, all such cases are about 6%, which is true or that only 2 thousand 67 cases, so I guess this should be a key fact and an argument that this is not about a measure that would have a more significant intelligence character, and that is not about what should be accepted by this Parliament. On the contrary, just because it is such a small number of cases of only 2 thousand 67 in the last year and in 2003, as it is relatively small means, there is no reason not to send a message that we want in this country women working on responsible and well-paid jobs but also that we want them not to be cut off, damaged or disabled by the fact that they also want to be successful business women also mothers. There's no reason for anyone to be cut off in his right. And according to the Health Protection Act, any woman who leaves for maternity leave is entitled to a full amount of maternity benefit, which means 100%. This applies to all women except those 6.25% of young mothers who earn more. It is not fair and it is not in line with the principles and principles of fair, social policy. If someone is going to make an argument and it's as sometimes heard that there's a solidarity system, then that solidarity applies to those who don't have income. And we are pleased to say that in the term of last government, we were able to extend the right to maternity benefits and to unemployed mothers. But solidarity does not mean that the damaged must be those who earn more. We could even find an economic argument that these women, earning more than this limit and making more money in health insurance funds. And there's no reason to deny them wages, or compensation just because they're on maternity leave. These are the fundamental reasons why we propose, I would say rounding up one system of maternity benefits and theirs, I would say, final completion as a model because we have now extended the right and in this way allowed all under the same conditions, the same... So they realize it, they do it right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As we have as a society more, as richer we have more money, I'm sure the amount of birth benefits will grow. Under these circumstances, it would be quite enough to carry out the demeritation as we propose in the amendments to the Health Insurance Act. Here, dear colleagues and colleagues, I am convinced, given that, according to our estimates, if the decommissioning were to be carried out in order to make the total amount of maternity benefits for that category of birth of 94 million kuna per year, in order to increase that amount by about 40%, that is our estimate or monthly by 3 million kuna, which at the annual level would amount to 36 million kuna for this purpose. A little money to achieve a fair and fair principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14686	Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? The Committee on Law, Family, Youth and Sports? Finance, state budget? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Jelena Pavicicic-Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14687	My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the SDP Club after the proposal's opening remarks. So in the last 6 months in this country we have actually mentioned the birth category very often, I dare say it is one of the most mentioned categories of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We really don't doubt the importance of that category. Regardless of whether it is a concern to improve the demographic image of Croatia or actually to impose a social theme that would occupy the public to which the HDZ Government has unfortunately not offered any surplus, economic or development programme to date. The coalition government and the SDP in the past term by November 2003 did not promote enough what was done for the birth category. The fact is, we didn't perform daily, we didn't take enough pictures, so maybe we didn't even talk enough about protecting the interests of mothers and children, but we certainly worked. We extended birth rights and introduced maternity benefits for mothers of students and unemployed mothers, and mothers who carry out an independent activity. By expanding the categories of recipient fees, we believe that we have taken an important step in terms of a better life for a whole series of families who unfortunately enter the social category of the population. Despite the government's shift and HDZ announcements to radically improve conditions for young families and families with three and more children, reality is different. HDZ has introduced a three-year maternity leave, as well as families, the same families are freed from 15 % of the participation if they participate in the purchase of an apartment or resolve their housing issue in accordance with the Law on Social Encouragement, which I personally consider to be a good measure. But despite Vlasi's shift to SDP's response to such a policy, there was a continuation of promotion of the policy's innovative measures. The HDZ thus rejected the SDP's proposal to release VAT on children's supplies and to introduce a 12% VAT rate on the most necessary food supplies, assessing it with a socially poor solution from the introduction of a 20% general VAT rate, and that is the fate of this Law in... Sanader's government and the IMF know. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such a fate was also experienced by the SDP's proposal to introduce tax reliefs for example. Schooling, i.e. learning a foreign language. Thus, in her negative opinion, the government was able to even conclude that the foreign language in that case was not taught by the taxpayer but by his child. Today, we also have a new SDP initiative to share maternity benefits. In the past year, in 2067, Mothers received the highest planned birth benefits of 4250 kuna. As a result of this figure, 2,000 mothers who earn above that limit are often considered as if it were a shame, and never think about women and potential mothers who might decide on first or new motherhood when that fee would not be limited, or perhaps in this society we suspect that there is a certain number of women who do not earn below average or average wage. What a real number of women earning their average salary in the Republic of Croatia is unreachable through the State Statistics Office, which I still have to find amazing for a country that is a candidate for the European Union. And here we open an extremely important topic. Is the discussion of the most important policy, about the Croatian demographic renewal, about the Croatian black numbers about the fall of birth, about Croatian mothers, Croatian children, the Croatian family really sincere when the government proposed a measure that would certainly contribute to the quality of life in the parliamentary procedure gave a negative opinion of the following content, I quote: "Besides, it should also be noted that there is still a fee here at a time when the mother does not work and therefore, it could not be fully equal with that salary that is achieved for the results of the work effects, this being based on the principles of solidarity in the conditions of limited material resources.". It is, however, not that the proposed legislative measure is considered to be extremely inadequate but rather a matter of labour productivity and a situation where labour effects are missing. The work effect is lagging behind, to use the same terminology, and when the worker is on sick leave. At that time, the worker receives 70% of the salary and 70% of the average and average wage. More honest than this refusal would be if the government offered such a model to give birth, i.e. persons using maternity leave, also be on sick leave and an age of compensation, as for any other worker on sick leave. So when she decided on motherhood, we must say in advance that, unfortunately, it is ineffective. That is, the state administration is telling her she's working ineffective. Whether a woman works in a moving track factory or belongs to an academic community, so women are potentially ineffective at a fertilized age. But regardless of what you think about a woman on maternity leave and her work performance, I think you should think about it anyway and still try to pay them what they deserve because they worked, paid off the fund, because they work, and because they raise their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14688	On behalf of the HSS Club, a respected representative of Zdenko Harami.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14689	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The statistics published annually by the State Statistics Institute show a constant increase in the negative natural growth of the population in the Republic of Croatia, which means that more inhabitants of Croatia die than they are born in 2002, and that number reached 10 thousand 475 people in favour of the dead. We in the Club of HSS think we should do everything possible to stop this negative trend because if we don't, we're doomed as a people to a slow extinction. This legislative proposal, which is before us, covers only one small segment of the solution to this problem, since it is proposed to abolish the ceiling in the amount of compulsory maternity leave compensation, which could help women with higher incomes to make a easier decision on pregnancy. Although as I said, it represents only one small segment of the whole complex problem. Since it is 2067 births from that category in 2003 may contribute to a higher number of newborns. Increased material givings resulting from the adoption of this Law should not be an obstacle to law-making because children are our future, and people who take care of the implementation of the natal policy and those who encourage stimulating measures have a secure future. The 36 million kuna expected annually to cover these expenditures would come from an increased contribution to pension insurance, for health insurance. Due to everything said, the HSS Club will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14690	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14691	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. We have before us a bill on amendments and additions to health insurance laws. These changes and additions suggest that we actually abolish the limit, we heard this just before and from the promoter, the so-called de-dealing of the compensation for mandatory maternity leave up to 6 months and a child who can now not be more than 4000 and 250 kuna. That's the goal, that's the intention. The motioner's intention is quite certain in his, which stems from his reasoning is to encourage an innovative policy but I must immediately say here that I actually doubt that the proposed law would achieve that goal simply for a number of reasons. Here are some. To stop, we have already heard this, the unfavourable trend of negative growth, or the number and rates of live birth compared to the deceased, is necessary to take a number of economic and social measures that would encourage the population to raise their offspring. In this regard, we all remember well that the Croatian Parliament adopted in March of this year the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity leave of mothers who carry out the independent activity and unemployed mothers and the Law on Amendments to the Law on Health Osigulation. So all of this together is part of the measures of the most innovative policy to address the problem of demographics. Furthermore, the proposed amendments would indeed lead to an improvement in the material position of employees of mothers during the application of that right but indeed a real small number. Let's use statistical data. Out of the total number of compulsory maternity leave that mothers could benefit from in 2003, only about 6% of mothers paid the highest required wage. That's why I don't think a material incentive aimed at such a small number of users would have had a significant impact on birth rate growth. On the other hand, in today’s wage accounting system, there is a fairly large range, so the elimination of the upper pay limit could result in a very large number of negative consequences. It is also important to point out that the compensation for which it is paid to the burden of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance from the funds of basic health insurance, which would undermine the uniformity of the determination of remuneration in the basic health insurance system, which is based on principle, is true, reciprocity and solidarity. We've actually heard here ourselves that it's a little intervention... A small intervention was almost made out of small profits, but it's important to send as a message. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, that is why I am also the Croatian Democratic Community Club to send a message and a strong one, but as the Government of the Republic of Croatia announced amendments to the Health Insurance Act during this year where rights will be fully resolved and regulated, the obligations of the insured persons I do not think this proposal should actually be accepted and HDZ representatives will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14692	On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS respected representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14693	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, there is one small intervention in the Health Insurance Act, which is said by a colleague Vidovic, however, regardless of the small intervention of the HNS, the HNS Club and the PGS will also give support to this small intervention for the simple reason that these small interventions are corrected by the injustices put before those who earn little more. I think that, in any case, we should stimulate the development of the family in such a way that all those who contribute to this development are treated equally, and ours, as we have already said here, the catastrophic demographic situation is a fact. In 2002, as Mr. Harami said, there were 10,000 475 more dead than born. It's a warning signal anyway. The warning sign that something in our relationship to family policy is wrong, and it's not worth much. This little change wants to correct a tiny detail, which is that everyone is equal. Maybe some will say that it will create conditions for employers to hire their wife for a certain time, say, or daughter and hire her just enough to make her a higher pension, say 15, this maternity leave, say, 15 thousand kuna, but gentlemen, that's the situation right now. And now this same craftsman or employer can report his wife and meet the same conditions just not maximum, but out of 4000 and 250 kuna as much as possible. However, the national family policy itself and this disastrous demographic situation in Croatia cannot be resolved by this. This is just one tiny cube, I would even say no red cube in the mosaic, in the mosaic of demographic politics, but let's say some brighter, not white, but that pink cube in this policy. Because all the time, it gets the impression that we're just discussing those three years. So we're just discussing maternity leave and I'm even getting the impression that pregnancy is considered a disease. It turns out that when a woman is pregnant that she's sick because if you look at her, there are no employers, I guarantee she doesn't have any employer who hired a woman when he hears she's pregnant. There aren't any employers or paroled maybe a couple, because I can see that some suggest there are any, but there are few of those employers who, after the end of the labor contract, re-employ a woman when they realize she's pregnant. It is an impression that it is some sort of disease and that in this society it must not be pregnant at all. So you can't go to maternity because it all comes down to just one fact, and that's a question of children while they're young. What happens when children go to kindergarten, then we already burden their parents with 800 or 1,000 kuna, depending on what part of the country. What if he goes on, conditionally speaking, a basic school that's free of charge, we say for free. What if he goes to high school? What if he goes to college? All this burdens this catastrophic demographic image of us. And how do you fix it? And this tiny pebble, and what I expect the Government to do, is to go before the Parliament with a complete solution that needs to be amended by the Labour Act, the Law on Pension, Health, School, Children's Compensation, and especially the Law on Local Self-Government. Because as soon as those kids go to kindergarten, it's local self-government. And from that moment on, if local self-government can't finance kindergartens, and we know how many kindergartens we have, and we know how many children we can put in kindergartens, then they come before their parents insecure problems. After all, we also had an example of Gunje where our high school students went to another country, on the second programme because their parents didn't have the money to pay for their transportation to our high school centers. All of this is what we need to change to improve this catastrophic picture, a demographic image in Croatia. And that's why I invite everyone, in this first reading to support this proposal because it's a stone, a little rock in a mosaic that we need to solve. And I also call on the government to come up with concrete proposals and resolve the family issue and the demographic issue of Croatia in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14694	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS Club, DC-respected representative, Vice-President of the House of Đurđa Adlešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14695	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The progeny policy, but the quality, responsible and serious non-declarative is indeed one serious issue and requires a much more serious approach than anything we have ever done or almost anything else. A more serious approach to the full, complete family, but also to the single-parent approach that should be recognised as the fact that we talked about and prepared possible solutions in the law that I hope will be discussed very quickly, which is the Law on the Alimentary Fund. And every debate like this is often declarative. I hope that this one won't be like that, painted with politics, covert accusations and accounts of the former and current government, sometimes better undercovered, but it is true that something good has been done in the past term. And that's solidarity to mothers without receiving, to mothers of students and one fact that we have to admit, and that is that there are mothers of high school girls who really require that we seriously consider where failures have been made, whether in education or education, whether only in families or schools here have their own responsibility. However, in all laws so far, women who make good money, who have built their careers, who do not want to give up motherhood, have simply been dropped. And so far, they've had a chance, all the authorities so far, but we always have that system, we'll start different than Monday, or from 1st, or best when they're first and Monday together, which doesn't show enough seriousness to the problem and shows one different face of politics. It would be good if this Bill of Law were part of a package of laws that would seriously address the issue of intelligence policy and if such a law were indeed provided with the means. Parents' funds, funds for children, and we know that in a day's time we will discuss the funds for pensioners who have also been promised generations of solving their problems and their backlogs. The only thing we don't know is how all that money could be found. So it's all at the level of good wishes. I think the best policy package would actually be that economic package of laws that was announced in the fall. And these are the laws that will talk about encouraging investment, about employment, and then both mothers and women will, therefore, have one better standard and will certainly think more about children with that standard. We need to talk here about other problems, not only the amount of compensation, which is the price of children's food, children's clothes, diapers, everything that is needed, but also the problems of kindergartens and mangers in which there is no room. And if you're watching these are tens of thousands of children waiting for places in kindergartens and mangers. These are all the cities of children with whom mothers have nowhere to go after their work or while they need to go back to work. And many of them only work on the first shift. The arrival of the chain of commerce is a particularly open problem, but we also have to admit that more than a few women work from 7 to 3 so it suits the working hours of kindergarten up to 14 or 15 hours. And that's why we keep at the HSLS and DC Club that one serious package of measures should be prepared that will be divided into those measures in local self-government, therefore, at the responsibility of local self-government where something can also help the one going to the state level. We do not expect that the amendment of this law would significantly increase the birth rate. To be honest, women, and especially women with higher incomes, are hard to bear because they are only minor birth benefits, but also because of other insecuritys that are just going on maternity leave. A colleague, Kapraljevic, set a good example of what happens to women when they remain pregnant, which means for a private employer most often, which means for their careers as well. Therefore, in order for the most innovative policy to indeed be serious, responsible and not have this declarative approach as it was already practice then it really requires a more serious law in which this SDP initiative should have its place, but in a package of a more serious approach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14696	On behalf of the Club LIBRE, Honorable Representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14697	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, we would like to say that it is a very good bill which indicates that the principles of right to work should indeed be called upon to the principle of justice as set out in the Constitution, namely the principle of labour law, contemporary interpretations, the principles of right to work go from right to life, so if it is, in fact, a right to work, based on the right to live, then it is clear that the appropriate compensation for maternity leave must be equally realised, and not to be taken into account by an administrative measure, in fact, by a decree such as this census, if 4000 kuna is passed to actually be given to those births, and the mother literally restricts that amount. It detonates some kind of administrative ban here, one legal cut, and it remains a question of why. A country interested in having a single social stability that will work honestly and truly, such a state will try to develop a middle layer, that layer that really makes social stratification a stable that makes the relationship between quite conditionalally poor and rich, will be such, capitalism is not a society of charity but can have its corrective mechanisms. One of these in social and especially sociological terms is the corrective mechanism of precisely the middle layer and the developed society cares about the middle layer. So who are these births, who are these young women to whom they need to, who are actually being cut down on these 4,000 kunas and who do not allow them to achieve what they belong by the right to work, by the right to live, and finally by this circumstances because they contribute to the stability of society. Therefore, let us not make it impossible, or one who gives an opinion, which is the Government, not to contribute to the middle layer as one that can stabilise, which can calm this seriously distributed socially differentiated society. Which would actually be another motive, unless it has to be a conscious attack on this social class and some other examples of the tax system also suggest that there is no not only understanding but there is no serious strategy towards the medium social class. In one period this middle layer is literally broken and here is now the opportunity to directly manifest here every MP in relation to this in my court is too important a question which in one detail has become literally symbolic, it has led to one level of symbolism what to do in fact and how to treat the middle layer. Therefore, do not cut off from the eye and be unjust, literally unfair to women who earn more. However, a populist manner should be given to women who earn more and thus say more literally than those who earn less value but who need to make their own compensation according to how much they have actually contributed to the labour market, and this is the most that is done. We think in the Club of Libre that the best one is the most innovative policy that will be policy above all employment, allowing a woman to behave equally with a man and this is one of the examples of where this equality can be contributed. The opposite is the removal of the most innovative policy the government swears to, and here's an opportunity in spite of the negative opinion that through the parliamentary majority it does something and shows that it cares about both the intelligent policy and the principle of justice but that, above all, the middle social class. With this theme sure as hell you can't get around and this time you're talking about decentralisation and regionalization. If it comes from the infrastructure that monitors all that should be the most innovative policy, so the mangers, the state kindergartens, then it is quite clear that at the level of local self-government, more money must appear in the jargon. But with excessive, almost complete centralisation, the centralisation of financial resources that are so poured into the state budget, although also in Zagreb, it is said that Osijek will work further and the entire region called Slavonia and Baranja will actually be developing this infrastructure that is called in the minimum of the nursery and kindergarten. So you should not give the money but leave it where it's created and that's actually the story of decentralisation that's like regionalization. Here it is expected, with that proposal that we have already heard, that a set of draft laws is made and that a thematic debate is opened on this particular topic is equally important to fit into this thematic debate or to open up a special one, namely a special thematic debate on regionalization and decentralisation if this government really thinks about going through development rather than through a touchdown, through a hint of things, through an unimaginative visionary process that reduces less just how we're going to create an impression. Strong reserves are in decentralisation and regionalization projects, and even on this issue called how not to make an injustice to the births they make as more money is said, so they shouldn't be paid that much money during that first period. So, they should be given this because they have right and achieved it, so it's not giving, but it's actually the exercise of rights, as it should then be followed, of course, by a serious decentralisation and regionalisation project because it will create real bases to lead the ultimate policy. Sincerely and responsibly, as the Government should indeed do, and not in a way that occasionally appears with proposals that do not even have enough analysis within themselves and say, and what this or that proposal of the law in the context of the most intelligent policy makes it possible to hear that it is even "orwelovest" if constant analysts are sought and that they see what the proposed measures can be. Because without these analysts and possible prognosis, there will be no, of course, what the goals are unrealized. In this context, I conclude the presentation on behalf of the Club of Libre with the support of the SDP Act proposal, also with the proposal to have a quick approach to the debate on regionalisation and decentralisation and with a specific reference to these issues that we have opened today. Mr. President, thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14698	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, a respected representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14699	Dear President Shakespeare, colleagues and colleagues. The HSP club also supports a concrete legislative proposal and the very idea. In fact, we too because we live in difficult and difficult times, we look back a little bit, we look back at the death of pensioners, old people, and poor people. This law seeks to correct a civil legal injustice concerning the restriction of women and family rights from middle classes to have their own aids. However, he has some other far more important conjecture. Modern societies, above all, I think European modern societies have managed to solve the problem of demographic crises by rationally defining immigration and immigration policies. It would be good for Croatia to adopt a proper immigration law, where it would declare among other priorities to immigration policies, such as other countries that have long gone into the depopulation phase. But it should also be looked up in some ways to the Nordic countries that have long realized that the secret of demographic restoration is in several important processes. The first of these important processes is that early marriages, while people are young and are dominated by emotions, are still ready to make children. However, when they are educated, when they go through some biologically exciting periods, they become less inclined to marry and less inclined to have their own children. In Croatia, as far as I'm concerned in a generation of children between the current 20s and 30s, there are very few who even think about starting a family, so as much as I've seen in a generation of 27 to 30 years, it's still about 50 of those who don't have children at all and don't think about marriage. This is why the second process is to have the first child as soon as possible, and what is important for this law to stimulate people to have a second and third child. And the second and third children are the most risky in people, or women who deal in professional affairs. Nurses, doctors, university teachers, teachers, kindergarten aunts, entrepreneurs, means all those people who have higher incomes than those that are now restricted, to how many 4000 and 600 kuna. That's why the HSP Club supports the intensity of this law. And of course it will support the idea that the government will hope to think more seriously about the most intelligent and demographic policy, but again and again, I would like to remind myself of one previously expressed thesis that too many demographics in these different committees of different ministries that should stimulate people to start marriages and have children. Demographers are in such deep depression in Croatia that they will not certainly help the demographic restoration of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14700	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14701	... prescribes that maternity leave up to 6 months of child's age cannot be lower than 1600 kuna, nor can that compensation exceed 4 000 250 kuna. [[speaks later on, can't be heard]] Such a solution is unfair, such a solution is not in harmony with the rule of law and righteousness. In fact, the government's explanation, and here we've heard from the HDZ Club that it's a negligible number of women, all somewhere around 6%, and that it cares about them accordingly so that it can rely on that population alone, so only 6% of women who contribute to the most intelligent policy are not worth the effort, because that's what 6% of women say, and we can't expect much to contribute to the most intelligent policy. However, when it comes to this, there is certainly something else that is neglected, both mother and motherhood. But that and then there's a particular concept that clearly follows from the government's opinion. Once again, there is a pro-conservative policy. Because you women, there are a little out of 6% of you, who are successful craftsmen, who you make a lot of money for our opportunities above the stream, women managers, women bankers, judges, lawyers, etc., so what else would you like to do and give birth and more to give you a fee that you still paid according to your incomes. So it's a message. The message is that birthing and the job of a innovative policy are simple for women who have low incomes or are not employed at all. And you see, as a state, we give you a three-year maternity leave. And what's after that? – and after that, there are centres for social care, etc. And then comes our act of mercy, when, conveniently for Christmas, for Easter, for New Year, we come with a full bag of little things and then we give the kids, we give the families, and then we boast about how we take care. The care of the most intelligent, or the implementation of the most intelligent policy, concern for the family is precisely caring for more children in the family, but the family of parents who will be able to support these children, and the state to enable them, but not through charity and some kind of social here in this sense some merciful giving. So it's logical that this, uh, amendment of the law is based on national family policy. But how much is this national family policy going on? It is now certainly a question and responsibilities of these governments, or let them publicly say that she has given up on this national family policy, where both parents' foster care, a partnership in the family, is being advocated. So help those in particular so that they can have more children. So this is obviously one righting wrong. This bill should therefore be supported. But in any case, it also contributes to the most intelligent policy. Clearly, then, the government itself does not consider this to be some sort of special financial burden. So 6% of women are few, but there are and they reflect faith and hope that these women will be more, that the message that women are not only created for creation, for creation, for birth, for creation, and for creation, for work, and that is something that society, modern society, the state that steps towards Europe finally needs to be taken into account and it needs to be clearly defined and it is determined through this bill. So women like that shouldn't be punished. The refusal of such a proposal is simply the punishment of these women, the message is that they do not belong if they have already fought in the world of work that there are few that society will tolerate them but that they have nothing to look for here in family politics. I think we finally have to deal with it and really this exception that is now we have to do everything to make that exception a rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14702	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14703	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected colleague said there was a conservative policy at work. It's incorrect. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, along with a number of inaccuracies from the other Governments of the Republic of Croatia under the Government Programme proposed to the Croatian Parliament, has been accepted and this is related to this law in the work of the strategy for the demographic renewal of the Republic of Croatia and is not an indication of the colleague she spoke of. And also in the pre-election campaign, a colleague and some of her colleagues from the SDP Club came to my town of Požeg and shared what was not foreseen by the budget under the pre-election campaign and related to the most intelligent policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14704	Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14705	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! It is indeed a law relating to a very small number of women, and it is true that those who have said that this law will not cover a large number of women and that God will not know what effects in one increase and improve demographic policy in the Republic of Croatia. We could agree with that because, according to some indicators, there were 2,000 and 67 cases in Croatia in 2003, so 2,000 and 67 women paid this maximum maternity allowance of 4000 and 250 kuna. Regardless of the fact that it is a very small number of women, however, it should be said that it is a kind of injustice, women who have a much higher salary than this amount and who, when they leave for maternity leave, receive therefore significantly lower incomes and, in fact, spend the whole time because of these increases in salaries, single out the increased taxes and contributions to the Croatian budget. Therefore, it is not about people who would now take something that they have neither earned nor earned, but it is really about the fact that these women, because of the increased salary, have their own allocations and their participation in the filling of certain funds, and of course this Health Insurance Fund, from which additional funds should be paid. Therefore, we advocate that in some ways this injustice that has been introduced somewhere by the amendments to the law seems to me in 1996 or 1998, so that this injustice is corrected somewhere, which is no longer required by very large funds from the budget, so it is very small funds that the Croatian budget could bear. So this is primarily about women who are highly educated and who work in very responsible places. I think we should all find this number of women important and significant because otherwise in Croatia we have a very small number of educated people, highly educated, so only about 8%. And it is known that women, regardless of their very high and quality education, are very difficult to climb on a scale, so some places that are well paid but that are on the other hand responsible. We still have very few Judges of the Constitutional Court and Judge of the Supreme Court. Still on 100 men's managers so only 6 women come, still in health care in some medical branches are almost closed doors for women. So, on this side, we would have to give a little bit more incentive to this group of women who are highly educated and who are trying to do something in their work, so they try to climb up to as high a step in their profession as possible, and that is why they must not be demoted because giving birth to them in some way means a little break in their career, and then even if they get much lower income in those years, I think that's how it really demotes them. Therefore, I would like to see this law adopted, given that there are therefore no large funds in question and that there are very few such women and that because of their increased wages and increased participation in all taxes and contributions. And what about one of the remarks that was here was that we were some of the SDPs in Pozega City sharing money to people. I am truly proud of the mayor of Požega, who donated thousands of kunas to the family and children each generation of newborn children in Požega. So I'm proud of what we did in Požega.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14706	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14707	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague said the injustice was done to mothers in 1996. No, the injustice was done in 2000 when the laws on three-year maternity leave, based on the strategy for the restoration of the Republic of Croatia, were abolished, a demographic strategy. And besides, a colleague said she was proud of what was done in Požega City. Unfortunately, both counterpart Anticevic and Opačić and Biga-Friganovic came and participated in the allocation of thousands of kunas to families who had children who had not been budgeted. We were all city councilors for this, but those funds were not foreseen in the budget, and for pre-election purposes, a colleague led by the mayor at the time came and shared funds that were not foreseen by the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14708	Dear Representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14709	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The legislators say, in the light of the bill's proposal, and that is true that it is one of the instruments of family policy that seeks to help the family with money, i.e. a variety of benefits and reliefs, including remuneration for compulsory maternity leave. The existing Health Insurance Act and Article 38 provides that when compensation is paid on the burden of HZZO’s assets, there cannot be more than five-fold the minimum amount of salary compensation applicable for the month for which the salary is paid, i.e. can't be more than 4000 and 250 kuna. But the promoters think that this amount is dimming because it puts the mother in a more unfavourable relationship with higher incomes than the other. I ask you and myself what would be the upper limit that would be stimulating for those who earn more than this fee that is already higher than the average salary in the Republic of Croatia? Why do I ask myself that? Well, here's an article from December 12, 2002 that says that on the eve of St. Nikole members of the Association's parents protested here in front of the Ban Courts by sharing the flakes with the then prime minister and members of the government, protesting that birth benefits return to the state on January 3, 2000, before the 3rd of January 2000. It says in the same article that Mrs. Gordana Sobor, the minister without a sub-feement in the then government who sent them, quotes: "The money for the greater maternity benefits is gone or will be there." And she's transferring "New List," and she's texting her if they find the money in the budget anyway. So what now? The money bag's in somebody else and the attitude's changing a little bit. In the conditions of limited material resources and without these conditions, I also think that a material incentive aimed at such a relatively small number of mothers who have aged the salary at the highest prescribed amount will not be a significant incentive for the birth of a child because in a situation of good situation of a mother with a higher salary I dare say do not think about the act of birth at that time just so much about the amount of compensation and only for a few months. But something else is important! Also during last year's Easter, so a year and a few days ago, the then president of the Croatian Parliament and the then present-day president of the HSS visited the 10th member of the Golner family in their one-room apartment in Zagreb, Dubrovnik, and said, "I am sorry that parliamentary representatives in this parliamentary term have abolished maternity benefits. The sin of abolishing maternity benefits will be borne by all those who voted for it but will be corrected very quickly.", finished quote. It has been corrected, the sin is gone, the penance has arrived on November 23rd, without exception I believe that we are all pleased that it has been corrected by the will of most MPs on the proposal of the current government. Next, I am not prepared to support this proposal for a bill, expecting an amendment to the Health Security Act and a complete editing of this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14710	Replica. First respected representative Jelena Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14711	Thank you, Mr. President. I would really like to replicate to an esteemed colleague for the reasons that some facts, the fact that we are interpreting today in a slightly different way than how it really happened. In fact, the former SDP-led government introduced maternity benefits for a whole series of categories, so unemployed mothers, mothers students, mothers at regular schooling, or mothers who carry out an independent activity. But it's not just that, the problem is that we're talking about the number of women who use that limited fee today all the time, and we're not even thinking about how many women are making above the average salary today, because that would really help us when we're just talking about this number of 2,000 women. Such women who could use a fee of more than 4250 kuna certainly have much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14712	The same replica, the esteemed representative of Antun Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14713	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Bucan, and more representatives, already from the ruling benches on several occasions, suggest that the intensity of this Law is the most innovative policy. I do not believe that it is the intensity of this Law, one of the possible effects but I am experiencing this as a law that wants to acknowledge the reality that a woman in Croatian society can be as successful, manager, worker or scientist as it is men. And the sad fact is, in fact, that these women and women like that are only 2200. That's some information we're worried about. And the urgency of this Law is that I recognise this reality that women can be successful as a man in Croatian society because otherwise they are in vain for all kinds of different, different government offices or anyone about gender equality if we do not want to recognise this equality through this way and recognise the right that it is based on its working, intellectual and other abilities to achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14714	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14715	Mr. counterpart, at no point did I slow down if you are, I'll give you the freedom to read what I read because I was seriously preparing for this. At no point did I think like that, but I wanted to pull back, I wanted to pull the parallel from before what happened two years ago, which was spoken and what's being said today. I wanted to pull the parallel between the equality of attitudes that should be worth it all the time. I wanted to pull the parallel but at no point diminishing what anyone in the last few years has done in the field of intelligence policy. But the fact that it is said, the money for the greater maternity benefits is gone or will be there and let us know if you find the money in the budget. That's a fact, if it's not denied, that's what I found, and if you deny it to me, if you find me a denial of that statement, I'm willing to withdraw it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14716	Dear representative Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14717	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In this meeting of the Croatian Parliament only several times fully justified and absolutely necessary debated and tried to find the best solutions that should improve the poor demographic picture of Croatia and which should help parents and mothers and fathers. Of course, well-designed population policy and concrete, it addresses clearly defined, mostly small groups of societies that have their specific needs. Or more picturesque, well-designed population policy is like the mosaics of numerous pebbles that only in their interaction give a good and clear picture. We here today have a proposal to explain this picture with another stone and correct the injustice. To correct injustice against young mothers and fathers who, thanks mainly to their higher education, earn more than average and who are cut off by the existing Law. The population to which this Law is addressed is mostly a younger, urban population with good wages, which has careers and populations, which unfortunately not because of it but also for a number of other reasons, the most difficult decision to give birth to is the birth of a child. One reason that may prevent them from having a child today can be removed. In fact, it is already here and said under the existing laws of maternity leave fees cannot be less than 1600 kuna but not more than 4250 kuna. The 4250 kuna limit is dimming and unfair to working mothers and fathers who have a salary greater than those 4250 kuna. And I repeat that injustice again today we can correct it. On the other hand, the Government said in its opinion that this Law, I quote, would “befitting primarily those births that have a feeling of higher wages than usual.” My colleagues and colleagues, I do not think this is about any convenience. This is about correcting injustice. So is it a shame to earn more than average? That should be our goal. If the government had completely missed thinking about this problem, the following quote in that opinion, this is even better: “This is about the salary compensation at a time when the mother is not working, so it could not be fully equal to that salary that is being realized for the effects achieved.” From the government that allegedly advocates and swears in childbirth, it really is unexpected that the mother who gave birth, the mother who raises and raises her child is less valuable than the one who works, is working ineffective. At least inconsistencies and you will allow me to be completely discriminated against by mothers who raise their children. All right. What exactly does this law mean? While we're talking about the best measures here, we're forgetting a completely banal, but in real life an unusually important thing. Today in Croatia having a child is, especially if you earn more than average, absurd whether, unusually expensive thing. Or specifically. Consider, for example, a woman who had paid six thousand kuna before her maternity leave, carried out pregnancy, had a one - year maternity leave, and paid for two years of babysitting until kindergarten. That woman and that family will pay 68 grand 850 kuna. Here's how. If she wants to monitor pregnancy in quality with sufficient ultrasound and other examinations, she must contact the gynecologist private, which is a monthly minimum of 150 kuna per review. Furthermore, in the first six months of leave, the average of the previous three months, which although the salary was 6 thousand kuna, cannot be greater than 4 thousand 250 kuna. On that unusual average, in six months, 10 and a half thousand kuna yields less. For the other six months of maternity leave, if he can afford it at all, he receives 2 thousand 540 kuna. The salary she would have won in the meantime if she hadn't decided on that financial adventure of giving birth is 21 thousand kunas smaller. And then when she starts working, if she didn't get fired in the meantime, if she's waiting for the same job she left and now if, if and if, and the child can't or won't put it in the nursery and she won't, and for that she can't, there are valid reasons, there's someone who keeps the baby for 1500 kuna a month. In two years it means the child's third year of life, until he goes to kindergarten it's 36,000 kuna. So a total of 68 thousand 850 kuna is yet to be added to the cost of baby equipment, let's say we can add VAT on baby food and clothing and everything else we suggested, and you out of the majority refused. Of course, this amount of these 68 thousand 850 kuna can be much more or much lower. But from the personal perspective of every mother, every father, every family, he's as diatimulative as he is. Of course, it would be completely wrong to interpret this discussion of mine and this calculation of mere taking down numbers and losses. Of course no one thinks they should pay their parents to have children. Children should be born out of love, out of desire for children, not because of such or such an amount of maternity compensation. But it's my message, and it's by this law and it proposes nothing to take anything from a woman who's decided to give birth. Nothing to take from a woman who decided to have a baby. So once again, my support for this Law is that this Law corrects injustice against educated mothers and fathers who are harder to make decisions for children because of their careers. Although such parents have only a few thousand I do not agree with the Government that such a small number will not have a significant impact on the growth of birth because respected colleagues and colleagues who have the right of some mother and some fathers and some children to declare more significant than others, and by not accepting this Law with such an explanation we are just entering that dangerous zone, and yet it is a luxury that we, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, cannot afford. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14718	Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14719	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! In front of us is a proposal to amend and supplement the Health Insurance Act, which is explained by the way the proposer put it, that it is in order to improve our demographic image that is known as bad. That, for sure, is a good intention, and it can be said goodbye. But here, another issue of justice and solidarity is now being raised. Now we've heard a lot of numbers from a colleague before, but I wish I'd heard some other numbers and then a lot, with a lot more arguments we could talk about this bill. Namely, they are dealing with a figure of 2,000 and sixty-five women who have been cut off, who have been unjustly cut off. And that they'd probably have a lot more kids if that wasn't the case. I think we should believe that then we should try to do a survey in that population of women and see if that really, if more than 50% were to be said so, then surely we should talk about this law quite differently, I say the bill. But I don't think that's where it's done, and that's why this is a guess in order to maybe fix a demographic image, I'm just saying without the necessary indicators that would be necessary. But I would go back to a system of health insurance based on solidarity. It is known to be filled by the Health Insurance Act from contributions and from what is provided directly from the Budget. This was mentioned that this could result in an amount that was not large, only 36 million a year, in order to raise contributions. However, a second question is raised. According to all economic analysts, we are now taking more for health care than countries with this low gross national income. In nominal terms, it's small, and that's why we're doomed to the limit. I'd like to remind you that the principle of solidarity in health care is that everyone gives to the height of the profits. So someone more, someone less, but everyone gets the same. So they get this basic medical basket of services including fees. So benefits are included in a package of health services such as direct healthcare, such as prescription medications, such as orthopaedic aids. So when we enter a closed system by lifting one segment of these rights we automatically have to deny it to someone. And I think that at this point, no, it's not good to approach it that way because we must first oscillate the other conditions that have been in this House by now, which have been, in a whole way, trying to solve this poor demographic image of ourselves. Therefore, I am, on my own, changing the Health Insurance Act in this way as the Proposer suggests I don't think it would achieve the goal and that we should talk about it when the Health Insurance Act packages that I hope will be in the second half of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14720	Thank you. Replica. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14721	Mr. President, counterpart Bacic said that it is in the intention of the policy promoter that he still explained his views in such an intention, however, we have heard from the ranks of the promoters themselves that it is not really about the founding policy as he said in his approach to a short colleague, Peru. So then there's actually a question that really was the intention of this proposal. And why are the arguments that the SDP makes to us today, why weren't those arguments worth four years of their rule? What is the reason why those arguments that they make to us today were not valid during their reign when they had their majority when they could bring out and adopt all these submissions nicely? What's the real reason? The real reason is that with one superficial approach, an unargumented attempt to convince the Croatian public that HDZ has no intention of taking certain steps towards an intelligent policy, which is completely incorrect. Furthermore, even in the opening letter of the representative of the club, some pictures are mentioned, that they were not photographed enough and so on. However, it is necessary to visit a colleague, as well as the Croatian public, that colleagues from the SDP even took pictures to open some elevators. So you obviously used every opportunity to paint, but you didn't. And that's why, and this particular move you're suggesting today, you haven't even adopted for your term.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14722	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Drago Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14723	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Less, more has already been said, so I will indeed try to be brief with a few reviews related to this proposal, which can indeed agree with the motionor and my colleague Herman, who I think spoke of, that the proposal is trying in a certain way to resolve a certain civil legal injustice in this case about women who earn more than the average in the Republic of Croatia. I have to admit here someone said that that category includes highly educated women, unfortunately it's not true, quite a number of highly educated women still don't make that much. So, correcting the injustice, however, raises the question of what the country's task is. Whether to correct injustice in a situation like this or be just to those who earn less or who don't earn at all, and it seems to me that it is above all... from the country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is also necessary to view this limitation of funds paid as maternity benefits and those who earn far more. It is not a wetland of either this or the last government, limiting resources when it comes to certain social categories is also known elsewhere, so it is clear that there is a certain amount of pension in our country. As far as this amount is concerned, 36 million kuna a year, which, as someone said, the state should be paid off, and indeed perhaps even for the state is not some big asset. I would visit you if at this time in Zagreb you lack a kindergarten for about 1000 children. Would it be better to use these 36 million kunas to build kindergartens and in a certain way help not those who are unborn but those who are born, who live around us and thus engage actively in the process of demographic development, or population policy? In particular, I would like to remind a study of colleagues from the Ivo Pilar Institute who have been conducted on women with the intention of giving birth that these particular problems of raising children, kindergartens, etc. are the priority reasons why someone wants to or does not want to decide to give birth. And in the end here there's been a lot of talk about this measure as one of the stones in the mosaic and it can really be a good stone in the mosaic but it's not good for a country that doesn't have the money to turn into a rock in a shoe, so you're going to have to take away others to give this population to which this bill applies. So, I think that's what we were already saying about three months ago when the bill was here so that, finally, Parliament and the Government should fully pass a law or package of measures that would be implemented in full by the national strategy of demographic, demographic renewal and avoid these partial solutions and partial proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14724	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Jelena Pavicic-Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14725	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The replica of an esteemed colleague, namely, I think that the promoter, or the SDP Club, was not intended to enter four walls of one family and in no way enter into privacy and think about who would decide first or secondly, thirdly, etc., the child. I think it is important in this situation to say that each government and its state budget and otherwise chooses between social and development concepts. So if we haven't found the right measure in the past term, then perhaps we've been thinking more about development projects, then it's really our crime or how you in HDZ like to say our deficit. But this government has not yet provided a developmental or social basis for any policy for the next four years. So when you didn't give a development concept, we thought in the SDP that you might support our social.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14726	Thank you. Replica response, Honorary Representative Drago Prgomett.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14727	So, it's not mine to defend the government, the government will defend itself with its proposals, with its work, we'll have a chance to see how much this government really is worth and I don't doubt its good intentions or its final results. I must admit that I did not understand why the government's proposals so far would be as social or less social than before, and especially why these proposals would be in conflict with development policy and with the intention of benefiting the development of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14728	Honorable representative Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14729	Mr. President, listening to the arguments for which this law should be adopted, I have decided to report for debate in order to point out what is positive and what is indeed for and what is not seen when discussing such proposals that come to the Parliament and that is the part of the political marketing for which these laws are appropriate. The truth is that the bad demographic picture of Croatia is an alarmer, and we all agreed when discussing the laws that were already coming from that area. And every serious state and serious government is thinking seriously about how to fix that picture, how to improve the conditions that will contribute to the improvement of birth. Because what demographics keep pointing out and always bombing us isn't positive. Every 35 minutes, Croatia has one population smaller, each Croat has a statistical birth of 1.2 children, and for a positive increase, the average should be 2.6 children and 40% of married women do not want to give birth anymore. And it is rare that UN data that Croatia will fall to only 3 and a half million people in the middle of the century and should be stressed that these are optimistic forecasts. And we all agree that in the past term when Mrs Kosor, as a representative, just kept pointing to these data, especially when birth leave rights were reduced, no one reacted. They were shrinking. There were different reasons. When the National Strategy for Demographic Development was adopted in 1996, which was meant to unite family policy and the most intelligent policy that was supposed to be a real national programme based on which laws would be made operationally, then HDZ's population demographic policy, then it is mocked. It's amazing that it's getting terribly important right now. What are we trying to say? We want to say that we are not sincere representatives of the Croatian Parliament, that when it suits us we propose proposals rather than complete solutions. The country can only move forward with complete solutions that the government has announced in its programme through other laws and through economic solutions, through the development and promotion of small entrepreneurship, craftsmanship, family economies, and these programmes are being promoted right now. They're complete solutions. The government is responsible for complete solutions that will allow the Croatian family to raise standards, quality life and, and for children who are educated. You see, and now from the computer buy-in program, I think it's mentioned that the government has no hearing, it's also hearing but it can formulate them. Secondly, women's equality is not resolved by law. It is resolved by raising standards, conditions that they can work, that they can be free. The law is only a letter on paper if we are not in its implementation consistent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14730	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Jelena Pavicic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14731	Thank you very much. In fact, I'd just like to correct the incorrect assumption that the former government was reducing rights. The former government did not reduce rights, but it extended rights as we have said countless times in the assembly, the fact that the past government extended rights or granted compensation to unemployed mothers, mothers at regular schooling, mothers who are engaged in certain independent activities. Therefore, speaking in this segment about narrowing down rights is not true. We have extended these rights to a number of categories, and speaking of three-year maternity leave, I must remind you that in the last term that maternity leave was two years, so he was not abolished. It just lasted two years. And we gave our reasons why we considered it a woman in Croatian society that it is good if she already wants to use this extended maternity leave that he is two years, not three.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14732	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14733	A colleague in her address when she spoke or listed numerical data as to how much less was born, or about the demographic picture, she said among other things. “Every Croatian gives birth.” I would correct the incorrect assumption because in Croatia, Croatia, not only do Croats and Croats live in Croatia, but the living and others know very well the national minorities. Therefore, we cannot say that every Croat is born but a citizen and a citizen of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14734	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14735	Here I am using this correction institute not as in the name of the promoter, simply to warn of one inaccuracies that MP Fuchek said. He's talking about how we need the whole program. The entire programme of demographic development of Croatia has been made. And I'll tell you a little secret. There are 2,000 copies of this National Programme made by experts, bunkered in an office, the former National Institute for Family, Motherhood and Youth. The program's over, the teams have done their job, and there's no reason for any new commissions to be set up. I hope we have a chance to discuss this in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14736	Replications. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14737	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say, in the last session of Parliament, no one laughed at Mrs. Kosor. On the contrary. The past government, and in the past term of this high house, has just made a number of significant steps at the most intelligent policy. If we're talking and a few of my predecessors and predecessors have already said that birth rights are still an increased circle of births that could get financial resources which for your authorities if we can say so, even though this should not be overly politicized, it was not the case. On the other hand, I remind you that both the circle of parents or children who have just been given thanks to this high home in the last term is an extended circle of children who could receive a child's allowance. So you can't say that nothing was done. On the other hand, I cannot agree with you in any way that, in part, women's equality is not achieved by the laws. Unfortunately, in a country like ours in which we still do not have the rule of law often times, regardless of all good practices, women have to vote in court. Here's an example from Varazdin. In competitions for, even for a place in the state administration of women who, by the way, are simply not in competitions, pass others who have stronger connections. It is therefore necessary to have strong legal regulations, as well as the judiciary that will implement such legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14738	Next replica. Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14739	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In her debate, the colleague said, and some colleagues had previously said that the government should make complete solutions and always as arguments to reject such, this proposal, and some before, was used by that apology. A colleague Vidovic has already said that there is a complete strategy that is literally bunkered but I want to add one other aspect to the whole story. While we wait and discuss complete solutions, people need to live. Life runs. And past this Parliament. In Parliament, acts are brought slowly, and I ask you what are complete solutions than a set of individual ones. So let's stop using such wild excuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14740	Next replica. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14741	Well, I'd also like to replicate to my colleague about the computer, which she said is exactly what the government is doing to honor computers is raising the standard. No, the government is simply encouraging the measure to honor good-looking parents to buy computers, but in contrast, the government has rejected the SDP proposal where the SDP proposed to reduce VAT on computers to all, and those who have 4.49, so they cannot be completed five at the end of the school year. We have suggested that everyone be reduced to VAT and that computers be available, and also to, and also to such subsidized computers see wonders of the company that donated to the government notes will be paid 22% of VAT. And it would be good to see how many parents of the dignitaries won't even be able to afford two and a half thousand kunas for such a subsidized computer because maybe their mothers are on maternity leave so that the state doesn't pay them maternity, maternity benefits as much as it could be that they can buy a computer. This would be the most innovative policy to allow all students to get access to computers more accessible, not just to the traits of those births that can single out 2,000 and 500 kunas on top of everything that will have to be made available this year and expensive books, and expensive shoes and everything that the government has also not accepted in the VAT bill proposal where the SDP has proposed that VAT be abolished on children's needs. At that time, parents might be able to burn in those months some money and buy a computer like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14742	Replicate response, distinguished representative Katarina Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14743	Mr. President, I want to unite actually the answer to the replica because more or less all my colleagues have talked about what I said that complete solutions are actually expensive individual solutions, that is not exactly what is true, that the government is not doing what it actually does. In particular, I can say, complete solutions are from life, like my colleague said, and life is not the law, we agree on that. So, expensive encouraging measures that unite more areas are precisely these incentives that the government, through all its ministries of raising standards of life, makes with all its measures. I'm looking at this one to answer, and specifically Mr. Mr. Gristle, as far as it goes, here's where the medals come in. Sure to take advantage of a lot of parents, it's a big interest in that. The measures are welcomed with some kind of approval, and I think we need to look at all such moves affirmably because we criticize them when they're gone. So when they come, let's have the strength to say they're good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14744	Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14745	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The fundamental reason for this proposal that we have on the benches today, as I understand it, is to improve the demographic image, and I agree that it is bad. We have also heard that it is disastrous and that the tendency is to correct an injustice against one less number of parents. We also heard it's about 6% based on statistics. So, the point is in this segment of 6% of parents, births devising the maximum amount of 4000 250 kuna. For what? In order to increase, of course, the birth rate and in that very small segment, we also heard that it was a small thing. I agree that's a little something. Increased the birth rate and thus reportedly improved Croatia's demographic picture. I personally, and my party, in any case, agree that we are dissatisfied with the demographic image, that it should be fixed, that everything in the most intelligent policy should be done to make it better. Of course, and it's perfectly clear that it can't be done quickly, that the results can't be expected for a month, a year or two, but over a long-term period, I would agree with one whole, not a partial solution. I think we're on our way to do it and get results, but only after years. So, I think that demographic image and intelligence policy should be systematically solved, not just for 6% of parents, as proposed by this amendment and by supplementing the law, but by 100% parents. I wonder what's wrong with those 94% of parents, which we certainly can't claim to be in some way if we're just talking about fees, that they're in some very favourable position, and we can't even argue that we're going to get some big results with these 6% of our parents to improve the demographic image. So, I would say that the compensation provided by the Health Insurance Act is only one segment of birth protection, i.e. the protection of mothers. And I don't think he is, and I think most of them will agree, deciding the most important, the only stimulating factor for future mothers. What exactly is crucial, in my opinion, for parents' mothers, especially for this 6% population? I think it's far more important to them and that it's a far more important career, that that's what comes to mind in any case by the employer himself and the employer's interest, but what I'm wondering is, what after the fee, what after these six months? Isn't it more important to systematically solve both the mangers and kindergartens and the schooling and the children's allowance and all the other segments that actually make up for the increase, i.e. improving the demographic image and in the intelligence policy? There is another really important reason why I personally cannot accept such a proposal to increase compensation because it is known that the benefits are just being allocated from basic health insurance, and based on the Health Insurance Act. In Article 2, and given the limited resources, Article 2 clearly states that the fundamental principle of this Law is reciprocity and solidarity. Therefore, in the Health Insurance Act, compensation is given within the framework of the possible. I wouldn't agree if we had a complete solution. The overall solution to the policy of discovery, if we had it, would certainly not be discussing this proposal today, and in order to improve demographics, we have had more proposals in this session and these six months concerning maternity benefits. We have also heard that it is in the works and announced, amendments to the Health Insurance Act have been announced, and I think that, in the overall approach and in the overall solution in many segments, there is actually a need for a little patience and then a systematic and complete solution to this problem. So, personally and cannot accept this kind of proposal to amend and supplement the Health Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14746	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14747	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In the presentation, it could be heard with a question of whether 94% of births, or mothers, were discontinued. It suggested that mothers were cut off here, too, but it's quite clear that in this part of the law what the law suggests, mothers are not cut off here and that's an incorrect assumption. Exactly, it is true that 6% of mothers have been cut off for the amount where, as I said so and in my basic presentation, it is simply entered into one decree, it is remembered and said that they do not realize what they are actually right to, what they had the right to achieve, on that fee. And that's where there's a simple injustice to be solved. That is what is called, and part of this injustice is overcentralisation, i.e. it is necessary to approach financial decentralisation as well as a colleague who is from Osijek quite clearly because he knows very well what a network of kindergartens, mangers, etc. With a little money or no money, you can't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14748	Thank you. We have two replicas. Honorable representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14749	Dear Mr. President, I agree with my colleague Šišljagic that the results that should be given to any of our decisions will not show up after three or six months, that this is in the strategy, that these are, that this is one long-term goal. But this morning, in our boxes, we got this booklet from the State Statistics Institute, which says, and the propo, the information here that we had, we heard, if we increased, if we expanded, the government did it but we didn't take enough pictures. Birth leave until the third year of child's life on page 36. In 2001 it used 4434, 2002. 386. And again, I remind you, in 17.4.2003, a statement by the then president of the Parliament: "I am sorry that parliamentary deputies in this parliamentary term have abolished maternity benefits. The sin of abolishing maternity benefits will be borne by all those who voted for it, but it will be corrected very quickly." It's fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14750	Let me just finish with the replica. A still respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, is a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14751	Mr. President, therefore, because of one discomfort to this SDP quite one logical, fair law, the law that has one message to correct and some seemingly visible, forms of discrimination have found a rescue solution here, so every little as well as a colleague who has just spoken refuses the proposal because there is no complete solution. It's certainly a complete solution. That's what I can say right away and the other one I'd like to mention, my colleagues, was very weakly listening to Minister Kosor who, when she proposed just introducing a three-year maternity leave, she said, this is just one rock in the most intelligent policy. So here we have the pebbles, there are stones allowed and here, here, only with this proposal we want in one systematic way to solve this form and discrimination and what, after all, we have all in the debate said, therefore, in a completely demagogue way in the absence of the right argument is rejected here with this syntagm of an incomplete solution. Oh, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14752	Replica response, respected representative Vladimmir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14753	Yes, I was, I was talking about the whole solution and there's no complete solution, but complete solutions like these changes and additions that you've put on the bench today, you've had four years to solve in the context of some kind of vision of a whole solution that you've failed to do. This isn't the only case of these six months, actually, of such and similar changes and additions, we had one large number, and I don't know what you've been doing for four years, so you haven't put those solutions and your ideas into those four years in your draft laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14754	On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14755	Mr. President, here I thought the debate would go without these kind of arguments that could be heard in the last few discussions and replicas. And I feel the need to say something about that, too. First around the intensity itself, about the intensity itself and the basic intent of this Law. The rationale aspect of this story is not irrelevant, it is not irrelevant. 2065 women took advantage of that right and have paid more than the limit. But who says there weren't 4130 that there was no limit? I don't know that. Perhaps I would not have appreciated the restrictive character and influence of this restrictive character on the decision of a woman to give birth to a team more which my colleague Lugarić has shown nicely what it really cost. If you'd been provoked to the end, I hope you wouldn't mind, so I'd be wondering if any MPs would, say, decide to leave their parliamentary salary and go to birth? That would really be an overpriced birth. Something else here is important. Can we talk about family, can we talk about having children and only have some national gain in mind? If it's good for our nation, then we'll accept it. Can we accept an argument, if something is good for a man, for an individual, for a citizen, that might be a reason to accept something. This turns out that if it's for an increase in the nation. And I say that if it's to increase the space of freedom, the space of dignity, if it's to increase the space of justice, equality, etc. If it's even 6%, if it's for one. It's actually a crucial correction of injustice against those 6% of women. That's a more important reason, not that there are few children. The second thing to do here is ask them the question, that the state needs to stimulate the birth of children in poor families. What does it mean to detimize those who are more wealthy? I know, and I have no illusions, these mothers and these women are going to give birth to this law, not to bring it, remove the limit or not remove it, motherhood is a matter of family, personal choice, etc. But let's not punish them, so let's not punish them. That is the meaning of this proposal, and whether the nation will grow by those 2,000 or 4,000, that is, in this case, an argument but in the second place for a bill of this kind. To say that the argument is that these, which is that limit higher than the average salary, because the salaries of these women are higher than the average salary... This radical egalitarianism here has no place, this is no place to be egalitarian. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll tell you even someone in our perception is extremely socially insensitive, today I've heard that example. For example, an official in the World Bank is not an official but a manager at the World Bank, a Croat, otherwise, has the right to full compensation for his salary during mandatory maternity leave and if the bank invites her to return to work because her management skills and investments that they had in her education are so important and valuable then to give her 50% of that child-preserving salary at home, etc., benefits are sought. That's how they do it, that's how they do it in the world. And we're going to be our intellectuals, the managers who went to school, who were educated, we're going to punish them, it's not, it's not fair, it's not social, it's not socially acceptable. One more thing. I really didn't think it was necessary to repeat it here and obviously to repeat it, and fight who did what and why you didn't do it. I assure you that national family policy, the National Demographic Reconstruction Programme here is 55 measures and this is a systematic solution and an integral part of the whole project. This isn't any finger gleaning. Why didn't we do it? Oh, my God, you could've done anything in four years. If only everything could have happened. And it's true, you quoted fellow Sobol, yes, but in another context it was said. Why wasn't it possible to increase the amount of maternity benefits? Yeah, because there wasn't any money. If we wanted to extend the right to everything then there wasn't enough money. And that was the reason, and that was fair enough. And there's no reason not to say it now. Don't say no, don't go to anything that's not an argument, I'm telling my colleagues from, uh, the ruling block. Let me know if there's no money, okay, but let's not say it's not good. And to go with type formulas here you see they're important careers, they wouldn't anyway, they wouldn't have given birth anyway. That's not good. And as for what the former government has done, allow exact figures. In 1999, he received 391 thousand 571 children. 2002, 2001. 628 thousand, watch 391 for 628 thousand children. In 2002 it was less than 513 thousand, but you still see about 50% more than 1999. Why? Because it's an extended right to a child's allowance and many poor families have, it's like the only income. Their only income is that they receive a child's allowance, and neither do father nor mother who could do so before. When it comes to money for a child's allowance in 1999, million 130, a billion 136 million. In 2002, two billion 424 million kuna. You can imagine what the Minister of Finance told me as a resolute minister of that fact. He said I cheated because it was huge money. It was a double, more than a double of money for children's extras. Family benefits. 1999. 470 million, and 2001. 504 million. Everything grew. But obviously not as far as we could, we should. At this point we offer as a solution, therefore, as the closure of one, one system to correct an injustice. And nothing more. Correcting that injustice doesn't cost a lot of money. I see no reason to reject this proposal. No good arguments, I haven't heard them here against that proposal. Thank you to those who support and reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14756	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14757	Mr. Vidovic called me here in one way to answer and I say, correcting the incorrect assumption that there was no money, that my statement might have been partial. It is stated: No money for greater maternity benefits is gone or will be there. According to Ms. Sobol, the return of maternity benefits should take nearly 200 million kuna a year, and the government found an additional 200 million kuna overnight for new payment rules. It took effort and money to find and direct him to what was more important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14758	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14759	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The esteemed colleague incorrectly set the thesis about the restrictive character associated with the Croatian government. I am not going to mention four years and, and not passing such laws, because today's Croatian Government has proposed to amend the law on three-year maternity leave at its 2nd session of this Assembly and to return the correction of injustice in that part. And I'd also tell my colleagues when he mentioned us MPs and motherhood. Motherhood is a respected colleague's gift, not a calculator, and I believe that on behalf of us, we can say that we would not calculate in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14760	Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14761	Well, here's what I'd like to correct Mr. Vidovic's misstatement if it wasn't for the money. It is known that the equipment ministries with very expensive not to say expensive furniture that arrived this year, which was ordered in the 7th, 8th month of last year, and also in your ministry and again, this one, I must say, looks like the fifth year for you is incredibly inspiring. It's been four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14762	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14763	Dear President, Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I will relate to my colleague Vidovic precisely with this thesis about us personally. You know, it's easy to talk when we talk about imaginary concepts. When we talk about imaginary parents, imaginary births, imaginary families, some families. I ask the question that my colleague Vidovic tried to ask or ask. How many colleagues will decide in this term to benefit from maternity leave and how they will feel at that time when they use maternity leave. Will it feel as the government has said workingly ineffective and will consider it quite right that instead of the current 13 or 14 thousand kuna salaries receive 10 thousand kuna fees less or will consider it fair that even at that time they receive equal compensation as if they represent citizens, citizens of Croatia. Second, how many representatives as fathers will decide to use the other 6 months of maternity leave, thus achieving equal amounting to 13 or 14 thousand kuna of representation salary 2540 kuna. How much personal we're going to talk about and show what colleague Byte said that motherhood is not a calculator, it's a gift. I agree with you, Comrade Byte, but I also ask the personal question of how these people, these mothers, feel when we punish them for giving this country a child. Not only did they give the child to their family but they gave it to this country and took part in one of the most intelligent, intelligent policies. You know, it's easy to talk about someone else. It is very easy to talk about someone else when you do not know such persons and when you do not meet them. The second argument was I'm talking about a small number of women or a small number of people using them, which they used in 2003. So tell me how many numbers it takes. Is that 2500, 3500, 7312, what number is that? For me, every mother, every family is important. And if one mother, one family, one child is cut off by something, I think we are extremely unjust to them. It's a very wrong thesis that there were too few in 2067. Well, that's where we broke the spear about it in the first month whether there were 50,000 children born or 49 thousand 900 and I don't know how many. We need to take care of each child with special and express concern. Not around 2067. And what my colleague Vidovic said. Do we have a statistical indication of how many women in a fertilised age currently earning in Croatia above the average salary of Croatia? Because here these 4250 kuna is the average salary currently paid in the Republic of Croatia. By the way, when defined 4250 then the average salary in the Republic of Croatia was below 3000 kuna. It would therefore be if nothing else, at least correctly align it with the growth of the cost of living in the Republic of Croatia. Who are these individuals who could not exercise their right to have an average salary for maternity leave? These are people who obviously have monthly incomes of more than £4000 250, but these people pay more taxes, and they pay more contributions. The full and health insurance fund, the full and local budgets, the full and this state budget. Therefore, they are not asking for the system of solidarity from one position to be redistributed so that they can achieve such maternity compensation, but only ask that what is accumulated in the Health Insurance Fund be returned during the 6 months they will be on maternity leave because they pay. Second, most of these women will not even benefit from the other 6 months of maternity leave because they already have huge financial deficits during the first 6 months. Therefore, they will not be burdened by the Health Insurance Institute for the other 6 months but will return to work and re-charging the Fund. They'll fill the Health Insurance Fund, they'll fill the local budgets, they'll fill the state budget, and I don't see any reason why we won't let them get the average salary they got before they went to maternity leave. Another aspect. The question arises as to what and how is paid to persons on maternity leave and how they are paid into pension funds. Will those persons in the pension fund receive as much as they were paid during their work or reduction? Do you, uh, what about the second pillar of retirement insurance? Or indeed we punish those persons permanently. We permanently punish them in a way that even their pension will be lower because they were on maternity leave. You can easily speculate if someone doesn't use another 6 months, these 2 thousand 540 kunas, times 6 months, that's 15 thousand kuna. It would be fair, if nothing else, to at least increase this limiting amount so much, but to a woman who pays a salary tax at a rate of 45%, it's absolutely absurd for her to get a month in those 6 months less than she may have paid in 2 or 3 months of taxes on wages and pension contributions. Furthermore, when you go to sick leave, then you have a pay average, but when you go to maternity leave, then the state tells you how much you can get. So it turns out that maternity status is even worse than being sick. Instead of encouraging the state, to encourage, to allow, to speak to society, it is important for us to encourage families to have children and encourage families to stay and perhaps for more than six months with their children up to one year. At least so long as local self-government doesn't create the conditions for children to be admitted to the nursery at 6 months. Those are some questions that I unfortunately haven't heard the answer to today. We really need to ask ourselves whether we want to achieve solidarity and equality or whether we really want to get into a situation or stay in this situation, this is an injustice that has been done. So now, we're just trying to correct something, to be in a situation really to stimulate people, mothers and families, who earn more than average wages. So we're not talking about 2,000 euros here, we're talking about the limit, the limit is set on average. Basketball, consumer basket in Croatia is somewhere on 5 and a half thousand kuna, right. It is far above what we here today have planned and above the average salary in Croatia. So these are some questions and it's not about money at all. The state must have enough money to stimulate it because it really is important for every child and it is important for us to encourage and stimulate as many families as possible to decide on the first and second children. Because I was saying, when we talked about the third child, the biggest problem in Croatia was the second child. A whole family decides on only one child just for the reasons I've been talking about. And most families from this status where mothers have, earn more than average wages will not be decided for another child. Not because it's a calculation, but because I can't go to the expense of my family and the quality of their lives that they created for their family, even for the first child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14764	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14765	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm correcting an incorrect quote from my colleagues. In one part, I would say that we MPs here certainly have care for the most intelligent policy and demographic restoration, but it's incorrect what a colleague said, that a child is given to the state, if it's a parent, I don't know if it's a parent. No one has a child to give to the state. In that part, the 62nd Constitution states that the state protects motherhood, children and youth, etc., but there is no child for that reason. We had a case in the Homeland War when young people gave themselves to the state, but it was their choice, not the choice of parents in underage children, so the thesis wasn't very good. And MPs and all intellectuals, I don't think they feel like a colleague says they're working ineffective if they become mothers. I think it's here, it's more confusing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14766	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14767	My colleague byte hurt the Rules of Procedure by saying that I said that intellectuals' advocates feel like they're working...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14768	What article of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14769	209, 214.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14770	What about 209 and 214?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14771	My colleague Byte was correcting a quote I didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14772	She was correcting the quote exactly which you said, that the child was given, that the child was given, that the child was born to the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14773	No, no, the other part of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14774	Perfectly correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14775	You're wrong, you're not correct, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. No, we're not talking work ineffectiveness. No, work ineffective. I was just quoting what the government said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14776	My friend, I think you're correcting an incorrect quote. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14777	But colleague Byte has hurt the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14778	She didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14779	...citing that I'm...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14780	...because she was correcting your inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14781	No, no, but I didn't say intellectuals were inefficient, but government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14782	That's correcting an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14783	I quoted what the government said... /The speaker turned off, then subsequently turned on. /... on maternity labor ineffective, not me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14784	Thank you very much. I'd like a representative of the government, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Veljak Bozikov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14785	Dear Mr. President, very distinguished state councilmen. Today, listening, MPs to the Parliament. Listening to today's exposure isn't me, because I haven't spoken after the motion, but now I have the opportunity and the whole problem and the way of the debate. Starting from the first Croatian government after the establishment of an independent Croatian state, after the Government of Democratic Unity, the next HDZ Government, and you know that the interest was in the best interests of policy, and we all today believe this problem and responsibility because of some way the depopulation of Croatia, which is not a comfort to us that this is, in fact, today and very developed countries, almost the same problem. This problem is so much more difficult for us because it is material resources that we are limited, which are very limited. The government of the coalition, formerly, admits yourself that when you were 3 years old, you reduced your mother's ability to stay at home to receive maternity benefits, you dropped to two years because you certainly had the right to do so, but on the other hand they were probably also the material causes of what you did. No one would be happier at this point if we could say this moment by stimulating... Say we'll stimulate, uh... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] which I would not like to speak in percentages but where are births with high incomes, today's reality that it would be, that it would now be eliminated to 4250 kunas to be broken down. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The argument has been made that it would probably not raise itself with it, but it would not, an increase in the birth of children. However, the question is just, here is the issue of solidarity, we are just about the issue of solidarity that part of the fee is limited to be more for those who have nothing. You know that, and this government has also raised the possibility that births that aren't employed to have incomes for welcome princes and children. Since this government intends to amend the law, to supplement the Health Insurance Act during this year, it will also be subject to other rights, out of health, social security, all of those good sides will surely be discussed and adapted in this new law. Therefore, our view is that this SDP proposal to amend the law is currently not accepted because during this year, all amendments to the Health Insurance Act will be covered and maternity rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14786	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. The first, respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14787	It is incorrect that he has now said that by delegating these maternity benefits as proposed in his proposal, the SDP Club would not increase, or contribute to an intelligent policy or increased number of children born. I'm sure he would. And I don't know where you can say it from what experience you claim it from, when I say, here's what I'm saying personally that, and many women think so, those who have one, would give birth to two, those who don't have one, would give birth to one and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14788	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14789	Mr. President. At the end of his speech, the Government's representative rejected the SDP's proposal to de-distribute maternity benefits took an argument on the need for solidarity with those births that do not have any income, so he said that the government allowed those benefits to be received and those who do not have primary or unemployed. Mr. Prime Minister, it is the coalition government that was forced to reduce in the name of solidarity and justice, reduce maternity benefits and it is the coalition government that has made an extension of maternity benefits to those mothers, including unemployed and students, mothers who carry out their own activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14790	Does the proposaler's representative want to make final statements? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 67. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies is not adopted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 74 votes in favour, 33 against and 10 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14793	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. In front of us, I would like to say that the Croatian Peasant Party's Club has taken him over from the Croatian Peasant's Party from the Croatian Chamber of crafts which, in fact, already on several occasions wants to update this significant issue because it is literally dependent on fate, hello, well, now it's good? Is he okay? Thank you. In front of us is the proposal for a law that I would like to start by saying that the Croatian Peasant Party Club has taken it over from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and on several occasions it already wants to update this significant issue because it actually depends on the fate of a number of craftsmen who do not have ownership and often not in the long term rent business space and are working in it for even decades. I am fully aware that this bill will be quite difficult to defend not only because of the negative opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the lack of reservations until the end of the support of the relevant parliamentary committees. To be honest, I might be happier if some of the provisions of the law were different, especially those directly in the jurisdiction of the units of local self-government meant municipalities and cities. However, I am more than sure that this proposal deserves a second reading because all the comments made can be included in the text of the new Bill proposal in order to at least partially meet the expectations and needs of craftsmen or small entrepreneurs. By passing the law, the state would be forced to conduct entrepreneurial behavior because it is certain that it does not manage its assets rationally and domestically, which is clearly witnessed by many business spaces that are months away and even years of wear on posters, which means out of function. Some political parties are opposed to such a bill. I am not surprised personally because it is generally known that they only have a few dozen business spaces in the city of Zagreb that are measured thousands of square meters. It should not even be mentioned, of course, that they often pay a symbolic fee for it. You shouldn't even mention that they're subletting that place and renting it. So they use it irrationally, actively all several times a year, and at the same time those who need it cannot act in any way to get it or buy it or rent it. Whenever I talk about the crafts sector, we declare that part of entrepreneurship is aware of the fact that in the Republic of Croatia we have over 102 thousand open crafts and that around 230 thousand people work in that part of the economy. And after possible rejection of this law we will continue to... craftsmanship as it is a development generator, a employment generator from which the state has high expectations but certainly too little to measure which would affect its development. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I propose that, regardless of the proposed legal norms in this bill here in Parliament, we conduct a debate on the issue and find opportunities to find support and change the situation. There are several problems in the use of business space owned by local self-government units. The first is certainly connected to the city of Zagreb and large cities in which the problems are most pronounced, but the situation is similar and this means equally worrying in other areas. Zorno will show us the research conducted for two continental and two Adriatic counties. Požeško-Slavonska, Međimurska, Sibenik and Split-Dalmatinska. The number of craftsmen in business space owned by the Republic of Croatia is on these 4 counties of 1540 and in the process of denationalisation is 486 business spaces. In other words, 2026 spaces in 4 counties. Certainly the most pressing problem is related to the denationalisation process. At the same time, I would like to point out that he is also acute because we are daily witnesses to the return of space to owners and at the same time the eviction of craftsmen. Interestingly, those who have rented this space for decades and generally collected through a lease several times the value of the space have no obligation. The dead are watching craftsmen move out, nor do they intend to invest in building a new replacement space. Preparation of building land or possibly for the subsidisation of loans or interest in craftsmen. Is that really how it has to be? Whether or not a state and even local self-government units should be excluded and this negative process should be uninterested. If we try to do the same in the Parliament or try to look for solutions and support those who regularly paid too many times and too high rents and state and local taxes, taxes and contributions. Nothing's better than a craftsman with a 20-year lease on business space. They are not driven out, however, based on a return decision, but each year they have a noose around their necks called an extension of the lease contract. Try to put yourself in those people's position. Do you know how many are in the sublet and that they're paying double the rent to someone who's political lobbying or otherwise, not to mention corruption, there's been a contract on the use of space. She was just telling me about this example the other day of a grocery store I regularly buy. If you want to be competitive on the market, and this is what freshmen today in the economy know how to invest in business, especially in the purchase of equipment and the editing of space. What about the equipment that's made towards the gauges if it's after a year, you can't use two more because you have to move out because of the loss of the lease contract? What if you need a loan to settle and the bank is looking for a mortgage? Of course, you can't meet that condition because you don't have property. And finally what about the investment done? Will you be able to use it and amortize it or after a year, two times the court's court will ask for the funds you've invested. Is there anything we can do for these people in entrepreneurship who have only opened over 50,000 new jobs in the past four years? For now, it is also questionable how we successfully implement the Law on the Sales of Apartments, the Law on Conversion and Privatisation, the return of property, the agricultural land. You know what's characteristic of all these laws? They have all bypassed craftsmen and this proposal has the ambition to at least partially correct these injustices because all other categories have had some advantage and advantage in the consumption of social or state property. The law tries to regulate the terms and procedures of the sale of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia, municipalities, cities, county and city of Zagreb through the determination of the interest of the Republic of Croatia, the way in which the price is determined, the discounts recognised to the buyer, the funds invested by the owner in the planning of the space, the way in which the payment is made and the purpose of the funds obtained from the sale. The proposal is actually very simple. The obligation of the State is established and this means that both municipalities and cities and counties sell their business premises to the current tenant, which determines the market price. It is based on building value and positional benefits, and the customer is granted a discount with a lease ratio of 0.20% for each year of lease. Of course, the amount of own funds invested in business space is also taken into account here. The maximum discount in the proposed way is up to 30%, paid up to 5 years, and an additional 15% discount is granted for single payment. The money received from the sale is used 50% directly in the Owner's Budget, and 50% is used for the purpose of encouraging small entrepreneurship, and primarily for investing in the move from the space that is subject to the return of property. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support the proposal of this Act, where the main argument is consequential because legal solutions are attached too similar to the provisions of the House Sales Act. And since they are similar to the Law on the Sale of Apartments, the Government of the Republic of Croatia says then it is about selling social property. Since the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia does not know the social property of the bill is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. An interesting puzzle forgetting that the text of the law does not mention social property anywhere but property of the state and ownership of units of local self-government or county. The proposal is also of course counter-constitutional because, in the interest of the State, ownership can only be limited with market value compensation, forgetting that Article 6 provides that the business space is currently to be sold at the market price which includes the building value increased for the positional rent. What I quite agree with in the government's opinion is that the right to ownership of local self-government units should not be limited and placed more in a more vulnerable position with the tenant. It means only in that element when it is possibly placed in a more unfavourable position. Similar opinions and reflections could be heard through discussion on the parliamentary committees. But no matter what, I believe that this proposal, with respect to the observations made, needs to be seen with a second reading which can oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia and may also stress the units of local and regional self-government to access the acceleration of the privatisation of business premises as it seems with other assets, which are located in the Privatisation Fund. In doing so, we can recognise the right, and I believe that we must admit, first buy, multi-year tenants, we must make it possible to pay in the price of purchases, we must recognise the investments made in the regulation of space. Of course, we can and we can't do anything. To reject the bill's proposal in the first reading, today and already tomorrow as it has so far continued declaratively in political speeches to take up for craftsmanship, as it is the generator of development, employment and everything else. If we're honest enough, if we don't have too many expectations, and at the same time we're willing to give too little, we'd better say nothing. Do we believe in craftsmanship as a brand? Are we going to continue at the highest-quality locations that the state has to watch as nothing but stores of world trade chains and manufacturers or as we will be able to buy coffee hats or game shoes in those places so far? This bill is only a small step in the form of support for those who have been giving civil code to Croatia for decades and by which we differed from others. Believe me, they deserve much more support than the one provided for in these laws. That is why I stress how important it is for this law to experience a second reading and I hope that you will provide the necessary support for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14794	Thank you, dear fellow Pecek. One notice. The session of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports will be held at 13:30 in the 149th floor. I ask the members of the Committee to respond to the call of the president of the Committee. Do the representatives of the working bodies want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first in line are representatives' clubs. On behalf of the IDS Club, dear colleague Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14795	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. I'm glad, as Mr. Pecek just said earlier, that this Law, too, is a proposal that has been taken over or put into parliamentary procedure by, I mean, by means of the craftsman's chamber. It means that in some ways the entire bill is behind this law, and this way the IDS will defend their opinion, and it would be really good if that legal proposal were found in at least another reading. I dare say that if a category of citizens of the Republic of Croatia has been punished in the past 50 or 60 years then they are our craftsmen. During socialism, because some of the prophets were capitalism and social order change in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or ex Yugoslavia, however, and after 90th because simply those categories of people could not participate in the alleged division of social property. Everyone could, they couldn't, as a rule. The tenants could have bought the apartment, but we all know that the craftsmen could not have gotten to the social apartment as a rule. So-called Socialist directors or electors of the former authorities could acquire through the conversion and privatisation of a particular company, but clearly craftsmen again, because they did not work in these companies or companies, although perhaps they were the only ones who had some money at the time, could not have reached the shares. It would be good, then, if someone had given themselves a job to see how some craftsmen lived in the 90 ’ s, how some directors or today’s tycoons lived, how much savings they had, what cars they drove, what apartments they simply lived in. I want to say once again, I don't know which times for this speaker, that the gross conversion in this country was the most ordinary crime, but it's not the subject of this legislative proposal. The theme is business spaces. I'm aware of the fact that some and all of them, for various reasons, will be priors to this law, some others will be priors against such a bill. I would once again like to say that one category of people in the Republic of Croatia simply did not participate in the purchase of so-called "the Republic of Croatia". social housing, which was generally craftsmen, i.e. that these same craftsmen could not participate in the conversion or privatisation of the so-called "privacy". social enterprises and that it's just not fair. Let's figure it out right now because it's business space. These are mostly properties that are now owned, say, by the state, by local self-government due to nationalisation, in Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, islands, etc., because of so-called. options or so on. On the basis of the above, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, So that's not the property that was usually created by units of local self-government or state. Returns to real owners may be possible through denationalisation in some exceptional cases, but indeed rare, while recovery of assets in the case of fixed assets is absolutely not possible. Except again in some exceptional cases. It may be a shame on the other hand that the HSS did not tolerate this Law two or three years ago when it was one of the key levers of government as it is also a pity that this Health Insurance Bill we discussed so far was not found in this assembly speaker, for example 3 or 4 years ago. If this legislative proposal before us today, as I say, had been blackmailed, as with some other solutions, it would have been better for at least a hundred thousand craftsmen. I'll say it one more time, I'll raise my hands for this bill. Clearly, if someone bought the space it could be that same space and it should be very strictly regulated exclusively in its possession. In the case of sales, the first purchase should again have the unit that this apartment, pardon, that craft or space sold under the same modes that it came under, let's call it, the new buyer. If we're looking at the auctions of business space now, there's no way that it's, I don't know, like, when Pula comes to the domicile population. It's just that the political line puts some of the others in the first place. Now let's look at these prices and what they're doing in these competitions, and I'm really asking myself a question, no matter who can pay for it. Maybe only those who just trade drugs. According to some calculations, it can be, and that is enough because a similar legislative proposal in the parliamentary procedure has been sent by the current justice minister, Mrs Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, meaning according to some calculations, it can be considered that around 500 million euros could be made on this basis, and I am convinced that these tenants have invested at least as much, if not twice as much money in what I would say, the adaptation of these spaces. If these 500m euros came to our cities, the state, this would in some way mean a strong investment climate for those units of local self-government or state. Well, it's not like it made sense in this country to sell all the banks, and now it doesn't make sense to sell business spaces that would have cost twice as much as that in this country has been coming from the sale of business banks whose recovery before that cost us 50 billion kuna. In the west, and if we want to compare everything with them, there is no city, there is no municipality that owns business space, and in particular there is no municipality or city that, as in the Republic of Croatia, has come to business space, means through nationalisation, etc. I also agree that no one should be left with the right to privatise more than one business space, not two, not three, maximum one. At that time, craftsmen would probably, in the right sense, become "the foundation of our society", so almost all of them in some debt chain, often unable to pay rents, especially that was devastating for that category of Croatian citizens when they existed "strict interest" when interest was collected to the principal and where they were mostly interested by the state through courts, i.e. the ZAP which thus approached the calculation and tightened interest. The height of the historical injustice that has been done in my court in some way according to that category of people should allow them to reach a business space. I repeat, in this country there are 400,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is good for their apartment, it is not good that one category of these citizens sold for significantly more of those thirds of the market compared to the funds she has allocated for the purchase and would finally allow for the first time to acquire such security in that branch and not to follow that unfortunate fate that Mr. Pecek spoke of earlier. It is true that someone, as the Government says, may dispute the Constitutional Court, and who challenged the Sales Act. social housing. The conditions are simply identical, with fewer discounts here compared to those social housing. It is clear that even these small companies which do not own their own business premises can not be excluded from the sale of business premises and have in their possession this business space today. There must simply be no discrepancy of any discrimination. However, it may not matter, since this Article 4 paragraph 1 literally states that a business space can be purchased by a tenant. The question I'm sure should be discussed is a discount. Here you say 0.20% per year of lease, is that a lot, is that small. So if someone's been leased for 10 years that business space he can get a discount of maximum 2%. If there's someone in the lease for 50 years business space means times 0.20 equals 10%. So this discount should be going somewhere compared to the market price between 10, 20% on the other hand, this payment within 60 days seems to me to be a little short, who is able to get money in that time period and I claim 99% of our craftsmen in this country, survives from day to day, I say far greater victims than those people who work in some public enterprises, the social sector and so on. Also, the deadline for the payment of 5 years, indeed who can, must be at least 10 years, although it can be clearly settled by the bank's loans in a different way. All in all I support this Act, the sale is not a gift because the discount is small before Pecek mentioned 20, 30% of the time to start with it too because the craftsmen are also once again I will repeat the only category that has not participated because of the "ideological" moments or in "conversion or purchase of apartments" because it could not come to them and clearly did not participate in that robbery since the conversion i.e. privatization. This Law can be seen in a way as an appeal for the salvation of craftsmanship, and so much should be adopted. We can prescribe here even if it wasn't fair again, if only those craftsmen who didn't come to a social apartment who didn't have any shares, however, I repeat this is the motion for a crafts chamber. Social housing, we all know that very well were the property of local self-government, so no one in this House could now ask this question why they privatise and "turns owned by local self-government". However, it should be simply consistent in the same way as in those earlier cases to approach in this case. And I finally believe that one whole debate about the state of craftsmanship in the Republic of Croatia is needed, this Law can only be one stone in one general mosaic of the functioning of this craftsmanship and I am surprised that the government does not support this legislative proposal because it should be the one that will encourage craftsmanship in the Republic of Croatia and not make it difficult for it to exist and operate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14796	Thank you very much, dear fellow Cain. Correction of the incorrect quote, dear colleague Tomljanovic, please choose a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14797	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct just a brief quote from fellow Caine who said in his extensive debate that the conditions are identical, thinking of course and speaking of course of two laws, before the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is a household law, in relation to this bill. This is exactly what a colleague of Kai's problem is, because the conditions are not identical, it's two different legal institutes, it's one acquisition of housing rights that existed as such as a legal institute, let's say to one other system, the social property system, and quite different legal status means status for the buyer. This is the basic problem and these are the basic and formal legal or legal essential and conceptual remarks in relation to this. So, I would like to correct the remaining debate, but because of the fact that these corrections are not the same preconditions in terms of the application of that law and the proposal for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14798	Thank you, dear colleague. It is up to the esteemed colleague Pavlic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Libre. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14799	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the ministry, the promoters, ladies and gentlemen. Let me briefly refer to the adoption of this Act on behalf of the Club of Libre. LIBRE Club will not support this Act because, in our opinion, it is important to restrict competences, powers of the units of local self-government and to restrict the right to dispose of its property. Business space, therefore, is not denying the intensity of this Law to solve the problem of the business space used by our craftsmen, but it is our fundamental observation that the owners themselves must do so, and these are local self-government units without being imposed on them by the parties. In this way, in our opinion, the first rule of disbursement of units of local self-government is violated to the systems of local self-government that we seek. This first rule is a rule of subsidiarity which means that, in the jurisdiction of the local self-government units, everything that can be properly achieved at that level should be what can be achieved. The consequence of respecting this rule in the modern world is the high authority of local self-government units that are constantly increasing or should be increased. Unfortunately, this law reduces it. Because the units of the local self-government of this law, therefore the provisions of this law which spoke of a commercial space only to mention, would apply to ownership of the Republic of Croatia's municipalities, cities, county and city of Zagreb. Therefore, this law restricts the right to dispose of property i.e. By owning those units of local self-government, which we don't think is good. This law therefore lays down the conditions and procedure of sale, determines how the price is determined, determines the list, discounts recognised by customers. The method of payment shall be determined. A contract on the sale of business space and the purpose of the funds achieved by the sale of business space shall be established. This law therefore imposes on units of local self-government which, I point out, are owners of that area, so under these conditions, they are first obliged to sell that business space to Article 5, and also under which conditions they will sell and achieve it. No, there is no alternative that units of local self-government decide whether it will go to a public tender in order to achieve the best income, or whether it will be in the form of rent as one quality source of funding of local self-government units, quality in that sense that it is long-term, so that it accumulates from year to year, and not to spend it perhaps for one year afterwards we are left without any income from that item. Therefore, because only the funding is also limited, Club LIBRE cannot support this law in this way. It is our view, therefore, that the competence of the local self-government unit should be in line with their financial capacity, so that they can be properly met. For the time being, there are no mechanisms for harmonising these parts of things in the Republic of Croatia, and when changing any jurisdiction, any income seems random, unfortunately this is the case and now, there is no projection in which the adoption of this law would have an impact on the functioning and financing of the unit of local self-government. The result of such activities is the fact that 33 cities, 27% of the total number or 151 municipalities or 35.8% of the total number of municipalities have so little income that they cannot cover even their most modest expenditures, which means that they cannot satisfy even the modest powers given to them by law. The financial force of the local self-government units as well as the indicator of their development, i.e. the indicator of the country's decentralisation. According to the State Audit Office, all units of local self-government have only 14% of total public revenues, and according to some data, the percentage is even lower. This share of the local self-government unit on the total public revenues of the Republic of Croatia is set at the start of the member states of the Council of Europe, among which 50% of the highest shares cross. If we add to this the fact that out of all income units of local self-government almost half of all public revenue is waste to the city of Zagreb, the situation is even more unfavourable. When we mention funding, a special problem is related to income in the Republic of Croatia and their structure. Thus, in the Republic of Croatia there is no important choice of tax revenue which is fully in the jurisdiction of local self-government units in terms of belonging to only local self-government units and in the sense that units have the right to write a tax and determine their own tax rate. This law, therefore, is also going in this direction, because for now our municipalities and cities and counties have been able to own their own property, with their business premises, here we are now imposing another restriction. The most important tax revenues of the local self-government unit are also common taxes, which are laid down by the tax quotas, as is the case in this case. In particular, an unfavourable share of support in the total revenues of local self-government units as well as their structure. Most of them make up dedicated support, which is actually more of a transfer than original powers. Here, this brief picture of the financial situation and the financing of local self-government units is also an argument, so let's not support this law. And so it's our position to resolve the business space issues used by craftsmen to leave alone, so the owners of local self-government units, which I think will be able to help craftsmen. Many of these units have helped them in different ways so far, and these means of impose should be avoided which restricts or reduces the powers or sources of funding to these units of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14800	Thank you, dear colleague Pavlic. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Honored counterpart Topic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14801	Dear Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to make it clear that we from the HDZ Club will not accept this proposal of the Law on the Sale of Commercial Spaces owned by the Republic of Croatia, owned by municipalities, cities and counties, which was offered by the Croatian Peasant Party Club in the Croatian Parliament. The proposer of the Law on the sale of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia and local self-government comes from the fact that they are privatised social housing and that they are privatised social enterprises. The following should therefore be privatised and business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia and municipalities, cities, counties, tenants who use these premises and carry out certain business, i.e. crafts or entrepreneurial activities. We in HDZ have a lot of understanding for the specific position of defence and its importance in the entire economic life of the Republic of Croatia. And we believe that she should be raised and helped by craftsmanship. However, this bill is so general and general that it does not make any differentiation, no difference from crafts to crafts and from the importance of crafts for certain cities and municipalities. And I believe that certain crafts and certain traditional crafts that have been for decades or longer from generation to generation owned by family that they should have the protection of the Republic of Croatia and that they need a certain result from the local administration itself, because they contribute significantly to one quality, one recognizability of certain environments, certain cities. But I do believe that this was proposed, or resolved by this law, that it did not seem right. and that is why we accept the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which very broadly explains the wrong legal basis for the proposing in the drafting of this bill. And we at the HDZ Club further believe that this proposal of the HSS Club law cannot achieve any of the objectives that the promoter has presented in his presentation of ducks to us would cause greater damage to relations on the market, and this was not the case for the state as well, here colleagues also talked about local administration units. The sale or privatisation of business premises as proposed by the Proposer of the Law opens up a large, large possibility of abuse and speculation if this privatisation or sale takes place at the intensities of this Act because let us be honest and open about who it is and who will determine the price of the business space. It's the only market that can do it. I don't think any committee, no commission, or I don't know which other body. And here it is also often said about the investment of craftsmen in the maintenance or restoration of these business spaces. I would like to remind my esteemed colleagues, colleagues and colleagues that, of course, craftsmen who use this space or who invest on other property, in this case on these business premises, that they have the instrument of returning these invested assets through the depreciation institute, but which is very important and that I want to stress from the perspective of all the entities on the market this bill is unfair because one number of entrepreneurs, one number of craftsmen who have come to those premises, came to the advantage of being at lower prices and at these discounts and if we also take this discount which, which the proposer proposes on a one-time payment can be 45% then you can imagine what space for speculation and manipulation is opening there. And he is unfair to all those craftsmen who have solved their activity or business space on the free market and have always paid a far greater price than this, this part, this segment of craftsmanship which was fortunate to have been in a position to rent or rent business premises that were social property, and dear friends you if we go back a little while during self-government socialism it was not easy or everyone could not get a business space or could not rent it. And these prices of business space should be clearly and loudly said, often and less than economic prices, without talking about market prices. And now we have one group on one side, a number of entrepreneurs who have been taken in general because they constantly deal with the expression of entrepreneurship or craftsmanship as if it were someone against craftsmen, but we are in order to make a clear, clear distinction between certain crafts that are really left to a naked competition and are important to certain cities and municipalities that can't be worn on that market game and they need help and encouragement from state and local self-government, and on the other hand, we have certain entrepreneurs or craftsmen who have already been privileged to use business space at a far lower price than their colleagues who rented space on the free market, and on the other hand, it is unfair to younger entrepreneurs, according to young craftsmen, because they can't possibly be covered by this law. From this point on, we can briefly say that we of the HDZ Club cannot accept this Bill proposal for these four main reasons, and this is the reason for the wrong legal approach given by the Government in its opinion and has very thoroughly explained it. There were some other colleagues. And because of that, the second reason is to open up the possibility of major abuse and speculation at the expense of the state and local self-government units. And the third one does not distinguish or distinguish specific activities that need to be protected and encouraged, which I have already spoken of. And a fourth. It significantly violates this Bill's principle of equality on the market because one part of the entrepreneurs is brought into an extremely privileged position in relation to other fellow entrepreneurs who did not have the privilege of renting such a business space and therefore I appeal to fellow MPs not to support this Bill proposal. And I personally, can say my own personal position, and I am for introducing order on this segment and I am for going in, in a way privatizing business space. That's what many local self-government units do. They sell business premises, but then under clearly defined market conditions, with those craftsmen, those employers who use these business premises have the advantage of buying a business space but only on condition that they accept the best offer available at the competition. I think that's how one would achieve justice. On the other hand, I believe that for the state to receive significant funds, cities would be much more orderly and much nicer because surely that private and private entrepreneurship is ahead of state, state and local self-government units. In other words, that resource, that value, those business spaces they'd be better and better used and I'm for it personally, it's mine now, with a personal attitude. I suggest it would be a good idea if the government made a bill that would come from all these principles that we were talking about right here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14802	Thank you, dear colleague. Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague Cain. ... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14803	Well, according to my court, a whole series of, uh, incorrect allegations above all, before the gentleman said that this law is general, is not general, that it cannot achieve any goal. Exactly the opposite of this law is concrete, it is life. This law is the essence of craftsmanship. The essence of gentlemen's craftsmanship is a business space such as that of peasants, which the state will also have to sell if we want to save the village which today owns or peasants has 2.8 hectares of land. It is said here that HDZ will not accept the sale of business spaces, but, let's say, HDZ has accepted privatisation of everything and so should banks that are privatised for small money than the state and local self-government would get out of business space. And by selling banks, we privatized, under quotes and economic, economic, financial sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. There's absolutely no room for speculation. That's what we agree on. But it's not true that anyone here gets a privileged, uh, position. He can't go on bidding. Why can't he? You can't have somebody out there right now. Others compete because the price will be charged. [[Thank you very much.]] At last, no one was competing. Not even those who are in a social so-called apartment have competed. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14804	There is no replica of colleagues to correct an incorrect quote On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS's esteemed colleague, Srecko Ferenčak. [[I don't know.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14805	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This proposal lays down the conditions and procedure for the sale of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia and units of local self-government, the county and the City of Zagreb for which the lease contract was concluded. As the main argument, the Proposer cites the principle of justice and equality of all and entrepreneurial equality. However, the bill does exactly the opposite for its members and puts entrepreneurs in an unfair position and favours only one group, i.e. those in the lease of business premises. Furthermore, such a bill proposes not to be sold through a public tender, to get the highest price, but to sell out business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia and units of local self-government. It should be said here and stressed that by renting a unit of local self-government, they generate considerable revenues and fill their budgets accordingly. For example, the City of Zagreb earns 135 million kuna per year, taking care of its craftsmen, there is absolutely a need to take care of these people, and in agreement with the Chamber of craftsmen of the City of Zagreb we get a list of old craftsmen and crafts that have then minimal rentals that are significantly below market prices and thus we take care of our craftsmen. In addition, if we force local self-government units to sell business premises, they can no longer control the purpose of those premises. We'll have karmic rates, we'll have jewelry stores, and we won't have what we think we should have in town, crazy. in Ilica. If the law in question is adopted in the proposed text, units of local self-government will have significant losses in the budget. Clearly, it can only be compensated by extra taxes, and I don't think anyone wants to. In addition, no one has the right to confiscate income from units of local self-government when the Law on ownership and other real rights guarantees them and allows that the net income is the rental of their budget. So this law is directly contrary to the Law of Property and other real rights. Furthermore, the proposal for this law obliges the local self-government unit to sell space at the request of the tenant. That's doubtful for two reasons. First, it insults the right to property as one of the highest values of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. I will quote to you the Law on ownership and other real rights, Article 35, which says, the Republic of Croatia and other legal persons of public law who are holders of ownership rights have as owners in legal relations as well as private owners. So, tomorrow, we might have a trap in mind that we, private owners who have tenants, order that at the request of the tenant, sell their business premises. I hope no one comes to mind. Secondly, this proposal forces local self-government units to sell space to the tenant, but does not recognise whether he pays the rent regularly, does not pay the rent, may even be in a court dispute with his tenant. This law does not recognize and is therefore unacceptable. The Proposer further argues that it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to privatise business premises without speaking in any word where, as well as how these interests are realised. Such a problem most likely stems from the wrong understanding that these business premises are socially owned and should then be privatised because they are social. These premises are not social property, and social property in the Republic of Croatia does not exist. It's true, now you've heard from article 35 of this law that the owner of the property is known. Therefore, they should not be privatized when we know whose it is. Furthermore, this proposal provides 0.2% discount for each year's lease. This provision really does not make sense or a legal standoff, and it is just against the principle of justice and equality of all and entrepreneurial equality. In fact, the discount would be obtained on the basis that the buyer had only one completely separate legal relationship with the previous owner, which makes no sense. The ratio of the tenant and the tenant is governed by the Law on the rental of business space and it is all clear and clear. Finally, the tenants of the business space would acquire ownership at a lower price than the other entrepreneurs, which is unfair and unacceptable. The only real price will be able to determine a public competition where everyone can compete and participate equally legally. Therefore, the adoption of such a law opposes the principle of justice, equality of all and entrepreneurship. Insults the legal institute of ownership rights, allows for the purchase of property without a public tender, so again, past the law. Under all market values, it is therefore unacceptable. Another possibility of this kind of law isn't even under consideration. What if the tenant doesn't have the means to buy the space? So they'll still be owned by local self-government units. This happened, if you followed, in Serbia such a law was passed and only some areas were sold for which it was already known in advance who would buy them, for which the law was intended there, so much space remained unsold. I agree that absolutely craftsmen need to be helped, finally and alone from such a family, but if we want to help craftsmen, then it can most effectively be done with low rents for certain groups of craftsmen. I said earlier, such a law was passed in Serbia, it was called Seselj's law, it says a lot in itself, and that such a law there only worked a few titles. He says, money-free shopping, square violence, low turnout, loss of Belgrade. And in the end, it may be very interesting that our proposings rarely see how this law will work in practice. All known, Siga space in Ban Jelačić Square, which is from Zagreb and you are already quite there so you know, an extremely attractive space, if it were my space of happiness, I would never have sold it, and I'm sure none of you would have rented it, had a monthly amount of thousands of kuna rent. So why force local self-government units to sell it. In addition, this area of about 613 square meters is worth, by some estimates, 3 and a half million euros. If we apply articles of this law in 70th and that article on investment, we get a 47% discount. So, the current tenant I'm not going to mention his name to, which is a very rich man, so he doesn't need this law for sure, would get a space for a million 700,000 euros cheaper than a market price. So why do we make it possible for him? Finally, it is clear from all of this that the HNS and PGS Club cannot support this bill in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14806	Thank you very much. Just one rectification of an incorrect quote and then. Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14807	In this country, not all craftsmen are protected. They were ideologically insecure until 90th and today. We sold out banks or sold out companies...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14808	Comrade Cain, correct the incorrect allegations, do not discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14809	There are other business spaces to correct the incorrect allegations. Business spaces are the essence of craftsmanship. It's not a sale, as you claim. It can't go to a contest because the tenant's institute, that institute, will squeeze in 99% of the cases. Maybe not in that one of yours where you mention this Singer or I don't know his name. If the apartments had been auctioned, 200 people would have bought 400,000 apartments in the Republic of Croatia. Second, another false quote. The losses will have enormous local self-government. There won't be any losses. They won't, because local self-government is going to have a terrible profit right at the beginning, as it is for 50 years of renting these business spaces. But I agree that the institutes need to be arranged. Not to be...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14810	Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14811	...to make it real.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14812	On behalf of the Proposer, a representative of the Proposer, a respected colleague of Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14813	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to respond to Mr Ferencak's presentation, which I think was extremely incorrect when he was working on a parallel between this law that was proposed in Croatia and some laws that reportedly regulate the area in Serbia in a similar way, comparing it with Seselj's law and the like. You do not need to read Mr Ferenčak newspaper in Serbia, read the newspaper in the city of Zagreb, so you will see how the city of Zagreb, i.e. you manage these premises, I say 135 million kuna would only be paid for posters that are stuck on display, and in those areas for which the city of Zagreb does not charge rent because these premises are rented. So I ask you, therefore, because you are so well informed that you are precisely saying how much space the political parties use in Zagreb, how many unpaid claims you have, I think that it is over 500 million kunas certainly back 4 years, if you don't know you don't know I know so I can tell you that and finally don't swear so much in craftsmanship, and even family heritage and say everything against it, so make a suggestion to solve this. I agree that the proposal may not be ideal, I agree that we should appreciate a lot of the arguments that have been given in terms of government remarks or discussions we have heard on committees or here in the Parliament, but you are not offering anything new, you are only offering what we have heard so far. If we want to manage the property, we want, unlike those countries in Europe that have long ago realized that it is not rational, that the property should be given to entrepreneurship that will invest in the development that it will hire and demagogy is to talk about how the local budget will lose, it will not get one-off, it will receive money at market price. Loses, that's what I'm willing to do based on the numbers to show, lose right through the rent. Through a rent that is small, which is often and unfair and often not charged. And especially they lose because the state and local self-government can't treat their property, so they can't even charge the rent they use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14814	Thank you, colleague Pacek. Correction of an incorrect quote from your colleague Ferenchk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14815	I have to correct a few incorrect allegations, first I don't read the newspaper in Belgrade or Serbia, but I'm using the internet, so you can do it, so read it, I didn't want to hurt anyone with it, but it was simply the law in Serbia that was passed. The same guy who knew who was going to buy those business spaces, was missed there, so I'm afraid he's not missed it here. Furthermore, the premises in the city of Zagreb that are closed are in the process of returning, returning to former owners and cannot be rented by Mr. Pecek you know that. Thirdly, the city of Zagreb has raised its charge from 2000 to 90%, which is an exceptional success in such conditions and the fourth city of Zagreb takes care of its craftsmen, I said an example of how we do it, you said the rents are often low, I agree that the rents are low for crafts that are productive and for which people... have suggested that they have such rents. This is exactly how we help craftsmen in the city of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14816	Thank you, dear colleague Ferenchak. We're moving on with the debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, dear colleague Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14817	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HSP club supports the proposal to draw attention to both the public and the government as to what issues are related, what problems the craftsmen have and how and how everything is handled with business spaces and municipalities, cities and in the state-owned areas themselves. And we ourselves are aware of the fact that valuable properties where there are and lots of business spaces, these are state-owned properties that are donated to cities and municipalities, and then cities and municipalities came into the situation, these were military facilities for various business zones and other things, and these same cities and municipalities were sued by the army for paying municipal fees that the military did not pay, and now these same municipalities and cities will rent this business space and will sit on the expense of the Ministry of Defence. So there are many different situations, and here we are talking about this variant which is legally correct that the problem constitutional foundation, for sale in this way as the HSS Club has proposed and we agree, is the problem and the Constitution says exactly that it can be ruled out but under the conditions that this is a market price. And there was a lot of talk in that part and it was attacking, but Mr. Ferenčak I expected that he would say a little more because he is the most responsible in the city of Zagreb, as far as I know, leading that part of the business space. We know the situation ourselves, we walk through the city of Zagreb and we will see how many starks of empty business spaces, then it is officially said that this is all the part that needs to be returned because it is nationalized in what way the property is taken away, and on the other hand I am told again by craftsmen who are interested in a few months someone else gets that business space. He said exactly that there are these business spaces for which municipalities and cities are not interested in selling, which I agree with, but what in the variant if municipalities and cities want to sell is not possible. It automatically means that the one who is in that business space, the case of the Sixh umbrella and other various crafts that Mr. Ferenchak was talking about, what then. And how and how the social property of cities and municipalities came to these business spaces. They came in a way that it belonged to them, normally social property as such no longer exists, which was registered in the garter that it was the social property of the municipalities, it became the owner's municipality, which was written by the city's city and they now master it, and that same craftsman and all the people living in that part were singled out in that former system, so... in many situations such a variant. Therefore, it is our view that the Government must really respond to this problem which is present especially in these various cases and these are variants of the craftsman getting leased for 2 or 4 years, and after that it is an attractive business space then he can no longer extend the lease contract than it is going on public bidding or going through sales that no one at this time can prevent municipalities and cities, meaning he will again buy someone else but let's be aware these craftsmen don't have much money, we know what jobs are dealing with and how, therefore, someone can come to this space. So ours will be the position of that first variant, if no one can make a city or municipality, they can't commit that it can't sell that business space because it can sell it because it's owned by it then in such variants if the city or the municipality goes to... then it has the right to buy the first one who was inside but normally with one variant that especially for these craftsmen who know how craftsmen live, in a way that allows it to pay off a longer period, let's say for 10 years on such variations, where he and those workers who work there would be left without a job. This is one of the first variants, and the other is in those situations where the business space expires, i.e. the lease to then have the right to extend that part. It means that the one who has already entered, because many, let's just take the variant with the business premises of the family, say, the dead Croatian defenders, the Croatian military disabled have been hired, in that first version of somewhere in 95, it was in two years of business space, and what's happening now, it's now taken over from the army this office is now the Central State Office for State Real estate Management, not even today that issue has been resolved. People have invested a lot inside, depending on what they do, he has no lease or can buy them out now so that the situation is completely unresolved, you have a lot of such situations, therefore, there is an obligation to react legally, not in these parts that they contain in terms of sales in this way, but certainly some of the solutions in the proposal should be classified in a way to protect craftsmen, to protect these people who have invested a lot in these business areas, and not only to discuss how this proposal is constitutionally legally problematic in that part, because we here have to take care to protect both small craftsmen and all those who are in those premises, because we know that there are always various games and biddings. Therefore, we support the intention and propose that the Government in the second reading together with the HSS Club give full and constitutionally legally founded solutions where we will protect and craftsmen, but also in the sense that it has the right to, if it is a lease, have the right to demand an extension of the lease when it expires or in variations, if it is the city or municipality that will sell this business space, then it can, under these variations, even which the gentleman said on behalf of the HSS Club in this way be resolved. Because I'm saying, this is about privatisation, how privatized are companies. As they are privatized, we know how they are privatized. Since the banks are privatized and all the other variations, it's all familiar to all of us. So let's not run away from this problem, rather than attack this proposal of HSS, but see that, to come up with a quality solution to solve this matter effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14818	Thank you, dear colleague Kovacevic. My colleagues and colleagues are out of time to sign up for a debate, an individual debate for 10 minutes. A respected colleague, Ljubica Lalic, is on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14819	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have yet another draft law that the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept. In the Government's view, we at the Croatian Peasant Party Club are not surprised because it is common for all proposals coming from opposition lines. Unlike the parliamentary majority of the previous assembly, which rarely missed the opposition proposals in the second reading, today’s parliamentary majority will reject this proposal in the first reading. This will close the debate on the topic that is most important for many craftsmen at the moment. Keeping in mind the importance of craftsmanship in the economic life of the Republic of Croatia, we need to speak in defense of this law, even if it is the voice of the crying in the desert. Let's mention this is the first reading. And maybe the proposal isn't entirely perfect, but it sure as hell isn't incorrigible until the second reading. No matter how hard she tried, the government failed to make a conditional and sustainable explanation that the proposal was entirely unconstitutional. Allowable, and even sustainable, we consider that part of the remarks relating to the sale of a business space owned by a local self-government unit. However, the remaining part of the opinion on reasons is unsustainable. So it is said in my opinion, I quote "that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia does not know social property, it is the proposal in question contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia". It would be concluded from that sentence that the proposal, as the bill speaks of the sale of a business space in social property, is not true. This bill speaks of the way and conditions of sale of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia. Social property is the past. Most of it has been transformed into state property which has been mostly privatised in different models and in different ways, but all these models and methods must be defined and regulated by law. This bill regulates the model of privatisation of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia units of local and regional self-government and the city of Zagreb. I hope we don't need to be reminded of state-owned banks and enterprises in former social property that have been privatized by various models. The then government did not, by the same political profile as today, consider it to be an expropriation without paying the market fee, as it is said. It was a law-based privatisation. Today it has been proven that the privatisation process took place the wrong way, but it was regulated by law. The previous process should provide for lessons that would never happen again to be managed and available to the purchaser without the payment of the total by and mortgaged in order to ensure the return of the credit to the benefit of a third party and ultimately toss out a share or share contract with the refund of any amounts paid. Such a way of privatising this law does not foresee. It does not provide for the sale or sale of commercial premises located in the facilities intended for the destruction or space located in buildings or in the area under special national protection, i.e. for which a special law provides for a ban on availability. Nor do those areas that return to previous owners under the property compensation law seized during the Yugoslav communist rule. The motive of proposing this law is those craftsmen who for many years, even for generations, have been doing crafts in rented spaces. It should be indisputable that, for years with the paying of the lease, they have invested in maintaining a space that was not their own and for which they did not have or have any guarantee that, after the end of the lease agreement, they will be re-entered. Starting from the fact of our own investment, we suggest that the buyer be recognised for his own investment, but no more than 30% of the value of the business space price. Starting from the privatisation method in other segments, we find it fair for the craft to achieve a discount of 0.20% of the value of the business space price for each year of the buying-in business space, so that the discount cannot amount to more than 30% of the value of the business space price. If we remember, at what price the apartments were bought, if we remember how and at what price the privatised companies were, then we must admit that this law is fair compared to the previous ones. Unlike other forms of privatisation under this proposal, the funds collected by the sale in the 50% part are intended to encourage craftsmanship and small entrepreneurship in particular for the acquisition of a business space for the mover from the business space returned to the ownership of the previous owner. We believe that such a solution contributes to the acceleration of the fees seized, once taken away from the property. And the craftsman takes care of the replacement space in which he can continue to carry out his activities. The amended draft law would complete the privatisation process while collecting considerable resources to encourage small entrepreneurship development. Incentives of small entrepreneurship lead to faster economic growth in market economy conditions. Development of craftsmanship leads to new employment. During the promotion of craftsmanship, 70,000 new jobs were recorded, and experts say the number of jobs preserved is double. The government's relationship with this bill reads the government's attitude towards craftsmanship at all. With her own actions, the government has denied what she herself wrote in her programme, which she presented to this House. This could make an impression, especially with the analysis of events with The Hague indictees, a fishing ecological belt that we have a government that thinks one thing, the other, and the third one works, which I don't believe. I don't believe we have that kind of government. However, it is not surprising that we read in the program that the government will encourage craftsmanship and now proves in part that it is not even on her mind. If the government believes that the law cannot determine how to sell a business space, that raises the question. Isn't this state property intended for relatives, friends, godfathers, similar, of course, past the law and this really isn't funny because in such experiences we have some knowledge and these knowledge is revealed precisely in the process of reviewing conversion and privatisation. My colleagues, if we refuse this bill in our first reading, we are closing a topic that is very important and very important for a significant part of economic life in the Republic of Croatia. If we allow a second reading, of course, to a second reading with respect to the observations made here, we can jointly adopt a bill that will achieve both the goal and the purpose for which I assume we are considering together those sitting on the right in this assembly but also those sitting on both the left and the center. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14820	Thank you very much, colleague. Corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is a respected colleague, Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14821	I'm going to correct three incorrect allegations to my esteemed colleague. The first is that the government in its opinion did not explain the contradiction of this bill. This is an incorrect assumption not only that it explained the anti-constitution but that it subtly elaborated all those elements of the anti-constitutional system in relation to the bill to the provisions of the Constitution, that's what you said. So I'm correcting exactly, you said that the government in its opinion did not explain the elements of the anti-constitution. That's one thing. Secondly, you also said that this is the Privatization Act. This isn't the Privatization Act, this is the Business Space Sales Act. I'm not going to get into an explanation. That's two very different ideas. One is the purchase or the elements of the purchase contract and the other is what we mean by privatisation. And third, same no less important. You said that the government, in light of this bill, has denied everything that it has stated in this area in its programme. This is simply not true, and the Government in its opinion and in the government's clearness does not go against small and medium-sized craftsmanship or private entrepreneurship in any part, but the government's opinion is precisely on the elements of anti-constitution and illegality and as a colleague, you will agree that these elements are in themselves sufficient reason for them to be discussed in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14822	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14823	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So a colleague injured Article 209(2) for the following reason. The Institute of Correction of the Inaccuracy implies a correction of the incorrect quotation. My colleague is correcting me allegedly to say that the government didn't explain, that I said the government didn't explain unconstitutionalness. I said it was not convincing and sustainable to explain, convincing and sustainable. And whether this is convincing and sustainable, it is a colleague's opinion the same as in the rest, as two corrections indicate. It's a correction of opinion. We, as MPs, certainly have the right to our own opinion, and it is our duty to bring it here, and I think we should stop the practice of allowing opinions to be corrected rather than quoted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14824	I must say, however, that my colleague, by my assessment, corrected the incorrect claim because you and your colleagues and colleagues, on the basis of your opinions, presented their courts, and whether it was convincing or not convincingly justified inconsistencies and whether or not this dissuasion was justified and in this regard corrected the incorrect assumption. We're moving on with the corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear fellow Matusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14825	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The colleague said it was a fair bill, however, it is definitely unfair and that according to the craftsmen themselves, because there is no differentiation by type of craftsmen and, of course, by years of working those same craftsmen and so on, it does not treat them equally. And also, this proposal is not fair above all to the owners of these business spaces, which means I will only talk about owners such as local self-government units, cities and municipalities that base their budget precisely on revenue from business space.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14826	As was previously the correction of an incorrect allegation, this is not the correction of an incorrect allegation but the presentation of its own opinion. And please, colleagues, don't abuse the institute. Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague of the Jarnjak. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14827	counterpart Lalic said the government intends not to donate space to its political opinion by accepting this law. That's incorrect. This government has given an exact explanation for why it cannot accept such a committed and proposed law and I am also now asking another additional question as to how that four years in power you just had a minister for this activity you have not passed such or some similar law you have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14828	Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague of Plesko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14829	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In her statement, Ms. Advocacy said that this government opinion and this view of the government about not accepting this law would lead to the destruction of part of the private entrepreneurship of small and medium-sized craftsmen. I believe that such an opinion and attitude are not correct because I have to remind myself of one constitutional provision that speaks of a free competition for all under the same conditions for all and then I have to point out and ask the opposite question, and what about those private entrepreneurs who have been creating for years, built their own facilities where they work equally and under the same conditions, a competition for all private entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14830	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will now set a break by 3:00. At 3:00, we have another club. On behalf of the SDP Club, the first Mato Arlovic will speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14831	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. On behalf of the SDP Club, the Honorable Vice-President of the House Mr. Mato Arlović!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14832	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear colleague Pecek on behalf of the promoter! I must say that the very interesting situation is actually with the Law on the sale of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia municipalities, cities, counties and the city of Zagreb for a simple reason because almost simultaneously there have been three bill proposals. One that suggests here is the HSS Club, the other that proposes the DC Club, i.e. HSLS and DC and the third, of course, which proposes the HNS, PGS and SBH. I have to say that we at the SDP Representatives' Club with great attention have studied all three bill proposals and the other two will be shown when it comes to that time and about this now. Why? Because we believe that solving business space to craftsmen and small entrepreneurs can be a very valid stimulating measure for the rapid development of craftsmanship and small entrepreneurship that would thus allow not only the development of production activities but also the services of our craftsmen and small entrepreneurs on the one hand, and on the other hand increase the employment of unemployed persons. And on the third hand, it opened up the possibility that crafts and small enterprises rely on large economic operators in one cooperative relationship, in cooperative relations in any complementary or individual production. But what we still have to say here is, in particular, two questions that are contained in one. One thing is to regulate legislation that the Republic of Croatia could sell the business space of the Republic of Croatia as a state, and in such a situation it can be discussed that even possibly the state is going as the holder of ownership and legal powers in that part of the business space with stimulating measures or with certain advantages in selling that space. For us, however, it is doubtful also from the constitutional-legal aspect and from the aspect itself to be the notion of regional and local self-government whether the law could be imposed as an obligation to sell a business space owned by units of local self-government number one. And number two, could the law even prescribe conditions and ways of exploiting the ownership-legal authority of local self-government units on any of its assets and then on business space. First of all, we would like to remind ourselves that according to the Constitution, according to Article 4 of the Local Self-Government Unit, so-called ‘the Constitution’ is accepted. The vertical division of the government, therefore not only horizontally, is said to be limited, among other things, by the Constitution-guaranteed right to local and regional self-government. The legislative, executive and judicial authority is therefore limited. Now, when it is viewed from this aspect, it should be recalled that, firstly under the Law on Local Self-Government in Article 67, it is clearly stated that all mobile and immovable matters and property rights belonging to the local self-government unit, or to the regional self-government, constitute its property. It is secondly stated in the same article in paragraph 2 that units of local or regional self-government must manage and use and dispose of their property with the attention of a good host. Therefore, whether a unit of local self-government will be identified for sale, will once secure revenue from the sale of goods or property, works of property, or will, for example, be determined to make certain revenues in the long term through the corporate rent, for example, by renting its assets in a specific case on a business space, that is its constitutionally guaranteed right and it would be difficult to prescribe that it must sell that property. The second question is to discuss whether to go through tax incentives to decentralise some special means by the state or leave to units of local self-government that it does not now have and to use purposely to build a business space that units of local self-government would sell. It's something else. However, as things stand now, it would be difficult by law... It is worth recommending that eventually the legislative authority also through sales help solve business space for craftsmen and small entrepreneurs but that it is prescribed as a commitment that would be difficult to do so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second thing we must also point out is the fact that in itself in the law when it is said that it is arranged in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to introduce and process the sale of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia, it might also be possible to understand but then it would be difficult to understand that it is going below the market criteria in relation to the benefits or discounts given. Now, if that's even when you separate state property over business space understandably it's completely incomprehensible when it comes to local self-government units. In fact, according to Article 50 of the Treaty on the Functioning The Constitution of a unit of local or in the interest of the Republic of Croatia can be seized or restricted only with full compensation, a market fee and in exceptional cases, paragraph 2 is said, entrepreneurship and ownership rights can be exceptionally limited, but when, first by law and second, to meet the conditions laid down in the Constitution and that is to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, nature, human environment and human health. Therefore, it is obvious that it would not be possible to limit corporate freedom and ownership rights in order, in fact, to support one category of entrepreneurs in relation to all other entrepreneurs, which would virtually violate the Article 59 of the Constitution which speaks of entrepreneurship and market freedom based on the economic structure of the Republic of Croatia. And in such a situation, we believe that these two questions before the final adoption of the law, so in the second reading they must certainly be enlightened and clarified, otherwise this law could not be passed without being aware at the same time that it also contains elements of anti-constitutionalism in those elements. The third observation that we must also point out is that it is very interesting that here the law provides for a single possibility and a classic ownership-legal relationship where a customer might actually request, initiate a procedure and request a court ruling that fully replaces the contract. First of all, he can't be a buyer unless he's engaged in a sale relationship. Secondly, in order to enter into the sale of the relationship and achieve the purchase rights of each other, obligations and responsibilities of the instrument for that achievement is his own contract. Therefore, if he did not acquire customer status because he did not enter into a sale relationship so that he could ask the court to replace the contract that the contract does not have because, in fact, the other party or the local self-government unit simply does not want to sell its property or property, in a specific case, business space. And in such a situation, this instrument that is proposed here in Article 5(2) simply could not, in fact, be accepted by analogy, be difficult to go. From all of this we believe that it would be far more important to consider in this bill and on the trail of one who suggests practically the Club of Representatives of the CNS and the PGS to reconciling the possibility, that through the tender, you should rent a business space when it comes to... the relationship and that the advantage under equal conditions to, of course, the trap that is now within the business space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's number one. The number two, of course, does not need to be prevented, however, should be encouraged and recommended to units of local self-government to use and to sell business space instruments in order to provide a business space to carry out crafts or retail activities. That's quite all right, but when? Then when it has an economic, commercial and any other interest and in such a situation we have to, we wanted to, we wouldn't let it go if we wanted to recognise the autonomy and freedom of the units of local self-government to them that they can assess it and that in such a situation they can judge. This more stimulating measures such as, for example, under favourable terms of lease or do not know, providing more favourable space in certain parts of the city, given, for example, the positional convenience or positional rent, as it is actually said, where it could be facilitated by certain activities, can then actually be said by units of local self-government, taking into account that certain activities in crafts and small entrepreneurship that are necessary for the provision of services to be produced, whether other services to citizens in the field of local self-government units can benefit from this. In this way, as proposed by the law which is proposed exclusively on the obligation, and not only on the possibility of selling, but on the duty of sales by units of local self-government, it would be difficult to accept that part of the law, and in this respect we propose from the Club of Representatives of the SDP that the applicant should consider until the second reading the possibility of actually recommending by law under certain conditions, units of local self-government that they can use and, in principle, under the Law on Mandatory Relations and Property and Real Rights, but then see what is now what the legislator would do, therefore, that state, which they could do to one and the other, and the unit of local self-government and craftsman in the event of obtaining a business spacious sale, i.e.e. by the local self-government units could do. Whether it's a tax exemption from real estate tax, or say that that tax is paid to local self-government units, or I don't know if it's something else or third, it should also be seen there, so it's actually its interest to the local self-government unit through so-called. Incompatible contracts, nameless contracts resulting from legislation can be found and replaced by the part of the interest which could potentially be lost if the law required the obligation to sell a business space to which the units of local self-government are now managed, i.e. masters and dispose. Of course, there's a city and the state can have another interest. What about those units of local self-government that have a large part of the business space and on that part of the business space are probably colleagues from the HSS aiming and significantly directed this Act which was practically not put into any function, stares blank, not used etc.. E there is a need to see how the State's practice must protect the interests that property must be used or better said how to achieve the constitutional obligation to own property. Therefore, not only does it create burdens and obligations, and commits, that it must be used as the holder of ownership rights and their users are obliged and contribute to the general good. Therefore, leaving a business space or any property that is not in any economic and social function is certainly not to contribute to the general good, therefore, there should be a view of what to do. But certainly as this solution was proposed, it would not be a good solution and could not be accepted. We specifically refer to Article 18, and we would like to say something as a fifth of our remarks. It could not be regulated by law that if the money was even accepted by the obligation to sell, and we warn that this would be valid from the constitutional aspect, it could be even less prescribed that the money achieved by the local self-government units must be used in such a way that 50% would be used to promote craftsmanship and small entrepreneurship, especially for obtaining a business space to move leases or a business space that is returned to the property of the former owner of the Property Compensation Act, i.e. both during and leaving property and other 50% for the purposes determined by the budget or decision of the authorities. For the simple reason that this is about something else, if the state wants to prescribe development and further expansion of business space, building a business space, creating new capacity of business space, then they have to get rid of the bag, because they can't commit the unit of local self-government to actually do something about their assets and their incomes and what the state wants to do. Therefore, there is simply a mix of state and local self-government and should be separated. In such a situation, more care should be taken of something else, the legal obligation of the Law on Local Self-Government which states that units, i.e. local self-government, or regional self-government must manage, use and dispose of their property with the attention of a good host. What would this good host's attention really mean? It is absolutely certain that it would not mean that the management of a specific property of a local self-government unit means dissipating units of local self-government and not providing substituting, such assets, etc. So obviously we should discuss something else. That the assets that are privatized, if they are units of local self-government that can only be used to develop and spread similar assets within units of local self-government but not to line up actually crafts and entrepreneurship, not to develop local self-government, that's something quite different. And that's how it is for us, and in conclusion I have to say these kinds of solutions that apply to us, and this part about the business space of municipalities, cities and our county, therefore, local and regional self-government, in our opinion, it actually gets into the so-called. autonomy in the area of entrepreneurial freedom of the local self-government unit, which is both under the Constitution and by law left to local self-government units, and among other things in this way enables local self-government units to perform one of their fundamental constitutional functions, address social problems and issues in the field of local self-government units, will create jobs and employment and thus open up the possibility of them to address their social policy and their problems and their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14833	I thank Mr. Vice President Arlovic. We're going to an individual debate. The first is the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14834	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Although units of local self-government are not very business activities, the income from renting businesses in large cities is significant. Cities and municipalities can, in addition, influence even the kind of activity if they want to, so they can quite take our looks, the attractiveness of the quarter, can finally be good masters but it is true that they can also be the bad masters that seemed to me and encouraged the adoption, that is, of this bill. But that's why the consequences are in the election. What is not good, this proposal annuls the right for local self-government units to have their own property, and I think that's the worst part. The law is proposed on the basis of several individual cases, and unfortunately it has been our practice for years that, on the basis of some of the needs of the city of Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Osijek, someone else is passed whole laws and is least viewed by smaller cities, municipalities, where it would lead to absurd situations. For example. There are a number of clubs in social homes, in sports facilities, finally remember that local self-government became the owner of the playground but from the city next to the playground. It seems to me that one of the arguments of the promoters is actually this situation that we see on the streets of Zagreb where the bars are stuck with posters, where they are not used, but I don't think the proposer took into account that a whole series of these places are before the owners return, that the court here is already too slow to continue this process of returning to the owners for years, and I think when it happens that the locals will once again shine that they will finally give the city a look that deserves it. Here on the shore, let's say there's a little bit of a different kind of place. Finally, if this law applies, we will have goldsmiths, pastry shops, bakerys, and possibly something else where goldsmiths aren't crafters, they produce something here and there, and it's mostly goods that come for smuggling from the outside. So I doubt that's how we protect the craft, because the exception might be, here, the city of Rab where I think it works better. Then, the proposed law is used by space users to buy places favorably, a large number of craftsmen who are virtually uninherited by craftsmen. Finally come to these famous Zagreb craftsmen on whose name we all swear you will see that the craftsman himself is sitting inside, old, before retirement or already in years for retirement and now let him buy that place. If he doesn't have the money, he'll give up his family. Because in a year two of those same relatives are going to sell those bars very expensive, so I don't think that way we're going to make it what we wanted. Because almost no one has that twist and move on. At last, every city must take care of traditional crafts. We mention here in arguments two, three craftsmen, two, three names known in Zagreb, which are known to Zagreb, and I think that this headship of the city not only of Zagreb but also of other cities in Croatia should take care of its own tourist image for the crafts that are extinct to give at extremely favourable prices what the headship has right and in this way can actually achieve what this Law wanted. A whole series of crafts activities don't happen in locals. So that's why there are craft workshops. It's too expensive for many craftsmen to have a place besides their own workshop, so I don't think they should insist on it. And finally to remember a little bit, I can't help but be associated with this in 1947, in 1948 when the bars were taken away in all possible ways by signatures, prisons, bullets and so on, that the same late 1970s that the people were taken away from the country for a minimum fee and resold, and I think that was the time when HSS in his 100-year tradition had a break so he didn't notice it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14835	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14836	Thank you very much. Mr. President, it's an incorrect assumption that all goldsmiths are smugglers and resellers. In particular, I have a good friend in Trogir who makes a very good replica of old Dalmatian and tropical jewelry. I think we should be careful in this assembly to call an entire dam so they're smugglers. That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14837	I don't think I've ever heard such a thing that they've all been called. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. [[Intruder: You can see the phonogram.]] He's gone, he loses his word on this wheel first. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Same case. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14838	Mr. President, I would like to point out in the introduction that the proposed Law on the sale of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia to municipalities, cities, county and city of Zagreb on which the right to rent is in principle and conceptually unacceptable. The legal solution offered by the proposal in question is legally unsustainable and with positions of mandatory legal relations, real legal relations and also with positions of constitutional legal provisions. It is doubtless that the proposed law in question is directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, to the Law on ownership and other real rights, but also to those provisions of mandatory law governing the basic concepts of a contract on the lease of a business space. It is obvious that the proposer has fully taken over or taken over in terms of a legal solution the model of the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is a tenant right which is legally inadmissible in view of the entire constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, we will agree with the fact that the household law by its legal nature was a specific right and characteristic only in the social property regime and as such was protected as an absolute right which was acquired and its termination was regulated by the Law on Housing. The last of the month of December 1985, so Article 59 of that Law was regulated to obtain a tenant’s right on the day of moving into an apartment on the basis of a powerful decision to place an apartment on the use or any other valid legal basis, and only the right was acquired indefinitely if the law had not otherwise been laid down. If we add to this the definition of social property and only once, so on and so on. the ownership-legal concept that social property represented or represented a higher form of ownership rights in socialism absolutely comes to the conclusion that these concepts are just incompatible with the establishment of the lease of business space as a concept of particularly regulated provisions of mandatory law. By definition, the lease is a consensual, bilaterally mandatory contract which obliges one foreign borrower to leave the lease to the other party for use. Regulation (EU) No 567/2012 of the European Parliament and The Law on Mandatory Relations provides that a leaser is obliged to hand over a particular thing to the tenant for use, and this is obliged to pay him a certain lease by making use of it also includes the enjoyment of things, the collection of the fruits if it is not otherwise agreed or the usual. Therefore, given that the proposed legal concept was based on the Law which regulated relations in the social property regime, it certainly comes in a legal and real sense to the application of legal concepts which exclude each other and cannot form the basis for any quality legal solutions. It is absolutely necessary to distinguish the concept of renting a business space from the concept of housing rights because they are indeed in their own content, but also in relation to the character of ownership rights incompatible. Furthermore, as regards the possibility of disposing of property, all of these must be considered in relation to the provisions of the Property Act and other real rights. There's... I mean one of my colleagues mentioned Article 35 of the Law, so I wouldn't repeat it, but let me read the provisions of Article 391 of the same Law. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, paragraphs 1 and 2 which unequivocally determines that the property owned by units of local self-government and local administration units and self-government of those units may be alienated or otherwise available only on the basis of a public tender and, with a view to the remuneration established at market price, if the law is not different, and legal transactions concluded against the provisions of this Article are therefore zero and thus do not produce any legal effects. As far as constitutional provisions are concerned, of course, the situation is next. Article 48 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall be guaranteed the right of ownership while Article 50 is prescribed: “The law is possible but only in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to restrict or confiscate ownership”, I stress this “at the expense of market value”. Any available, in this case the sale of a business space, even if it was in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, if there is no compensation established on the market value of the property, is contrary to both the cited law and those provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In particular, and in principle, it is unacceptable to place certain entities in a more unfavourable position or to establish an unambiguous system of convenience without any basis. Finally, no one is opposed to the entrepreneurial interests of craftsmen, especially with positions as the proposal states, the privatisation of this segment of entrepreneurship or small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. It is precisely in the craft sector and part of the small and medium-sized economy that private ownership is the basis and the basis for the development of this important segment of the Croatian economy. That more or accordingly exposed, such a bill for these reasons really cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14839	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14840	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Mr. Representative just said, I quote: "that from the position of local self-government, the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Constitution, etc. The proposed legislative proposal is not in line with these positive regulations." That claim just doesn't stand, it's about something else, whether there's political will or not. And that's all that matters. By any chance, Mr. Sanader, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kosor...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14841	Comrade Caine, colleague Caine, colleague Caine, this is not a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14842	I assure you...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14843	Comrade Cain, this is not a correction to an incorrect quote. Thank you very much, thank you very much, colleague Cain. Stop. This isn't a correction to an incorrect quote. You're having an argument, so bring it all out in the debate. Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14844	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. There have already been a lot of words about this Law, which is actually very short, 20 members and this Law, which is fundamental to what we can say, is really required and is imposed on the Republic of Croatia, cities, municipalities, counties, the City of Zagreb that business premises are obliged at the request of the tenant to be sold under the terms and conditions prescribed by this Act. Here, we can say, they've taken two opinions, one thing is that it's important in the interest of craftsmen, the other is that there are constitutional doubts whether it's justified to pass such a law. And I must say that I will not support such a law because I believe there is no justification for either the Republic of Croatia, the counties, the cities, or the municipalities, nor the City of Zagreb imposing one of these obligations on them to sell their business premises. For what? Those business spaces can, as has already been said, be sold in the end on the basis of the views of their business policy which they are obliged to lead and are not prevented by anyone. And I don't see why we would impose such a law on them as an obligation. As for the craftsmen themselves who are inside, I think there should be a little more data in the light of this Law than any craftsman, which are the types of craftsmen that people deal with within these areas, under which conditions and ultimately, all craftsmen who are in the premises owned by these entities have the right to be recognised by those investments they had in those premises, and by the basis of the Property Act and other real rights. So on the other hand, I believe that in the conclusion of the contract and these legal entities took care of it and that these investments that the craftsmen had or recognized through the lease or benified them in some other ways. I think the situation here is certain that such a law should not be adopted, should not be auctioned too much, engaged in debates. Well, if the Privatisation Act was passed like this or something, now would be a good time to pass a law like this. I believe that there is a very serious constitutional doubt, and in the end it is already said in the light of the Law that he is on the proposal of the Chamber of Brethren. I think that if we brought it in to have serious objections from the municipalities, cities and counties regarding the adoption of this Law. And therefore, Mr. President, not to repeat everything that has been pointed out in the debate so far, I end and do not accept this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14845	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14846	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me, in my opinions and views, contribute to the debate on the proposal for a law on the sale of business spaces. The business premises in Zagreb, i.e. the rent that is made by renting them, is one of the very important sources of income from local self-government units. For example, today in the City of Zagreb, such a situation is that income under this item has been significantly reduced after the adoption of the Property Compensation Act, taken away during the Yugoslav Communist Government, because somewhere around 65% of the total fund of business space is either in the return process or has already been returned to former owners. A large part of this way the City of Zagreb has remained, for example, one significant part without funding from the Business Space Fund, and the available space fund continues to decrease rapidly and thus the income generated from this base is significantly reduced. By adopting this Law in the proposed text proposed by the Club of HSS, the unit of local administration, and thus the City of Zagreb would be left with no significant resources. This loss in some way would have to be covered, and certain is on whose burden. Clearly, on the burden of citizens, taxpayers and other businessmen. The city office of the City of Zagreb for the management of the City's property today manages cca 4 and a half thousand business spaces and the basis of a more detailed analysis that we have carried out with them revenue and expenditure, it believes that the sale of business premises from the title of the good master should be accessed very, very selectively. That is to say, to sell only those spaces that are clearly long-term non-profitable and cannot be included in a group of those spaces intended for the purposes of various other civil initiatives. The provisions of the Act proposed by the HSS and DC Club earlier impose obligations on units of local and regional (regional) self-government to sell commercial premises to tenants who use them if they are interested in buying. The price to be paid is extremely inappropriate for customers, tenants and since there are no restrictions on the tenants, even those who irregularly comply with their obligations under the lease agreement may seek sale, or purchase of the space in question, and the owners have a duty to sell it. The text of the proposal for the law of the Club of Representatives of the HSS found that it was the law in the interest of Croatia at the very beginning. The following which limits the right of ownership. Limitation of ownership or confiscation of that property is possible in addition to compensation, market value, but the proposal does not result in a full remuneration of market value. For example, a much overproposed discount of 15% is as proposed in the case of one-time purchase. A series of discounts suggest that up to a price that is far below the actual market price and that the sale is made is made for the sale of assets. So, not for sale, but for sale. And let's remember that she made a decision not so long ago on selling social housing, even though this is not about social property but real property. With a non-selective approach to the best intentions, the housing fund is reduced today to 96% of private-owned apartments. However, the lack of rental apartments owned by the City or the local administration unit, at the appearance of speculant housing policy, on the high rent of private tenants, at a low price of reserve per square, today in Zagreb 1.53 kuna per square is from which it is not possible to civilised civilize buildings and restore the fronts, so as pedestrians, we are daily guessing of the set-up protective panels on the sidewalks that protect us from the downhill noise and obligations that the formal owners have towards the citizen's neighbor. So, today almost 10 years since we sold out the housing fund in the hope that by defining a private tenant, we'll take care of the property as a whole and rebuild the city's housing fund, it's precisely that concern still lagging behind and the buildings, especially those in the narrow center of the city, are still collapsing. Let us point out once again, business premises are owned by the states of the Republic of Croatia units of local or regional self-government, not as the implications suggest social property. Social property in the Republic of Croatia does not exist, and business premises are owned by those entities. The Republic of Croatia, municipalities, cities, counties, the City of Zagreb with regard to their property are in the same legal position as individuals owners, so they cannot and should not be forced to enter into an unconditional purchase or sale contract because it is insulting the right of ownership as one of the highest values of the Republic of Croatia's order. The corresponding lease of revenue was the budget, the proposal would not implement the privatisation of business premises modelled by the purchase of shares of social-owned enterprises, as stated in the Law's reasoning, but would sell property to individuals indiscriminately and even without a public tender. The adoption of such a law opposes the principle of justice, equality of all and entrepreneurial equality insults the Institute of Property and enables the purchase of state property without a public tender and, as such, more widely harmful to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I certainly advocate that others, in particular, make it possible to stimulate small lordships and especially traditional craftsmanship, as mentioned here, I advocate to receive a discount and to make it easier to repurchase, in a public tender, the current tenant has the right to lease according to the terms of most favourable offer, and that the amount of the lease is tied to the market height of the rent, with the possibility of a corrective downsizing, especially in cases where it is used in some generally useful non-profit interest or in areas of special state care. Today we are certainly witnesses and many abandoned business premises that are either on return or are already returned to previous owners but because of large rents or large ownership appetites remain closed and larger for many years. I think that units of local self-government and the City of Zagreb should think about introducing rents for all those places that are not functional and actually rewarding the city centre. FOR all the above reasons, I do not support the proposal for a law on the sale of business spaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14847	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14848	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I join them all, it seems that most of the MPs in this Croatian Parliament who will not support the proposal of this law, primarily because of the rude incursion of the rights of local self-government units, and because of the possibility that this is precisely the kind of law that comes to be manipulated by the sale of a business space that is very attractive. In fact, to explain this, I'm going to give very clear pictures of the situation. In fact, the word craftsmen, etc., is often mentioned today. When the word craftsmen are mentioned, then very often we think of traditional crafts, we think of those crafts that should not be extinguished, I think that we are all one-hearted in such an assessment, that special measures should stimulate traditional crafts, and in the field, or in certain cities, I know examples where traditional crafts are stimulated, specifically by money, credits, various benefits around the lease of these same business spaces, therefore, there is clearly awareness in local self-government units to direct their economic policies in this way. However, who are generally looking at the tenants in the most attractive areas in various cities can be very clear if we make one easy walk through the centre of Zagreb or through any centre, in our cities, so we will easily conclude that in these areas it is very often those who are engaged in exclusively service activities, that in these spaces there are often various world fashion houses, which are currently renting such spaces through their companies that work and in Croatia, this way we would enjoy exactly such companies. If I were to illustrate this, I would say one example specifically from Zagreb and Dubrovnik, let's say, why should we, by law, allow companies like one Bennett or I don't know which company is in the lease of certain business spaces, to own an attractive space for 40 and some percent less than someone else would. Which is why we take advantage of just like that, there's no excuse for such a move, and that would only mean more destruction of craftsmanship because real craftsmen wouldn't come at such an opportunity. It is also one of the main ways of filling the budget of local self-government units is to rent a business space but not only that but also to determine the development policy of these same environments related to the lease of business spaces. So these same cities, municipalities, counties, the only way they can influence what content will appear in their environments that they care about is only actually through the lease of business space. And through this lease, the development policy of these environments is very clearly expressed. Why sell to a tenant an attractive business space, after which it will not be possible to influence what content will be in that business space. With this bill, we do not know the future of this business space, this owner, craftsman or how he is treated exclusively as a tenant in this case, so that the future owner can sell this same business space on the market at no more than 47% of the price, but perhaps twice the price or three times the price, and that the new owner will, for example, not be any craftsman, to be exclusively some service activity or something that is not an adequate environment in which he comes. All of this suggests that this bill is very missing, so let me just say something that seems extremely important to me. In the cities dealing with tourism on our Croatia's most beautiful coast, the very heart of these same cities is the jag for business spaces. To illustrate this, I will tell you an example from Dubrovnik where recently a public competition for a 20 square meters space reached a price of 46 thousand kuna per month. So 46,000 kuna per month is renting 20 meters square in a city like Dubrovnik and it's not the center itself, it's not Stradun so it's not in the most elite position, it can imagine how it would affect the places that are located in the strict center. So, first of all, this is an excellent source of income for local self-government units, but as I have already said very clearly to direct development policy or content that a particular environment wants to have, and I don't think we should deny it in any way or any of our environments, any unit of local self-government, because that original right and that right would really be a shame to sin and it would be bad for this home to do so. Therefore, I will really join those who will reject this proposal already in the first reading, and I think there is no reason to further exhaust ourselves on such a proposal that makes no sense, no standstill and will not contribute to the development of craftsmanship but rather the opposite. It will contribute to the fact that this will turn out to be manipulation, that someone will want to earn money in business spaces, and that in cities and municipalities in the county, we will have one educationally I don't know, God forbid it's being introduced, we have only ice cream shops on one side, which is possible by such a proposal in the end could even come to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14849	Honorable representative Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14850	Mr. President, the Proposal for a Law on the sale of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia municipalities, cities, county and city of Zagreb on which there is a right to rent and on which we are now discussing it certainly had as an intensities the help of a group in the economy, a group of craftsmen who have actually been some of the most vital part of our society in the past decades and who felt neglected at the moment when there was no business space in which the crafts took place. However, the way of thinking and implementing opportunities in the law certainly cannot solve the most important part of the problems facing craftsmen and craftsmen, which is that society has gone forward and that it is not only the problem of the price of business space that bothers them. It's not safe for a carpenter to do the same thing now or 20 years ago, because there are signs, there's industrialization, there's serial production, there's a new time. It's not the same thing that the same job now has a razor as it was 20 years ago and so I'm not counting, so something about it as a change has done time. Second, as to the aspect of the impact of this problem on the units of local self-government spoken of by my colleagues, it is very important and very effective in a negative sense effective. Why? Well, that's normally one of the basic incomes. Now, let's look at Zagreb. It is not the same to have a business space in the center of the square or in the Principality, where it can be two years, and that no one wants to rent it or wants to buy it. It is not the same to have in Zagreb, have in some smaller place where really local administration units are struggling to rent it to, let alone sell it. But still, as some community, they still come up with a solution, because they are just able to create their own development, to choose content, to determine what a cultural place will look like. Once a traditional turn of society and the economy and the government and the community in which he lives has opportunities to help and must help. He can be helped by promoting his product, marketing is now the main side of the promotion, so promotion is one main side of marketing. Let's see if we can help this man to perform at fairs, how to promote his product and thus promote both ourselves and his tradition and thus maintain it. The local unit always has a chance. Second, a business space, i.e. a lease is a good solution and each unit of local self-government has made its own rules, taking care of its needs and its conditions under the Law on the Hire of Business Space. If we take the example of the city, then there are certainly the conditions and procedures of a public tender for which we could even say, regardless of all that the content and certain social categories that are very important in certain segments of certain activities such as this and how long a man is in that particular space, whether it is a family tradition, whether he was a defender and not getting into the details. So it's an arranged lease. And also areas that cover certain areas are not all areas of the city equally attractive or in the same way the same craft can be in the center of Ban Jelačić Square or in New Zagreb on some side street. Then it was also arranged to transfer the lease rights. A joint lease has been arranged, sublet and in all this the city's commission to rent a business space through public procurement takes account, has all the elements covered by all the needs of the city. I think that this law has opened one topic that we can certainly conduct debate on the adoption of other laws and encourage perhaps other solutions that will help to preserve our tradition, identity through certain craftsmanship, which will take care of ethnological elements, cultural elements, and I think that at least from that point of view we can welcome it, but in no case is the principle of justice that is, like the legislator, or the one who proposed the law, the principle of justice is not the principle of what would be the main principle that this law must be passed, and above all, this law is not a market law. And all our laws must be made at the head of the market economy, because it is the only economy in which this competitive character must be and provide, among other things, opportunities that give room for proof of competition and for progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14851	Thank you very much. Does the proposaler's representative want a final word? Yeah. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14852	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In the end, I actually want to say as I was saying at the outset that the debate was expected. Less and less, we've all taken a declarative stand for the development of craftsmanship, and we all understand their problems. But some other times we'll do something concrete for them, and they'll wait again, because we find legal obstacles, we interpret it as unconstitutional, because the law, the bill, it's too similar to the concept by which we've sold apartments in state property, which is an interesting link when the arguments go away, and then we tie it to something that's not even mentioned in the bill, but in the law, it says unequivocally that it's owned by a state, or a unit of local self-government. It was interesting to hear in the debate that this is an additional possibility for corruption to happen. It was interesting to hear how these craftsmen still get some benefits in socialism, so I guess we should pay for it at this time. In fact, the craftsmen, through the debate, are less and more guilty this time. No one will convince me that the bill is against the constitution, that there is nothing we can do until the second reading to adapt these legal norms to what is expected of us. So when we were discussing social housing, or selling apartments, we sold them for 30% of the value, so that's what happened. In privatization there were 50% discounts, of course everything was in accordance with the law. But here we now use as an income argument that will lose the state and they are called rent. We pour crocodile tears over units of local self-government and here we have heard that Zagreb has 4.5 thousand of these places for which it collects or does not kill, better said charges 133 million kuna, while at the same time in four years it has not invested a single kuna in building a business zone in order to allow those craftsmen who have to leave the business space returning to the owner to build faster, easier. There, the conclusion is strongly supported by craftsmanship, but this sector of the economy will wait a little longer. We consider it to be the most dynamic sector of the economy that has 102 thousand subjects, which employs 230 thousand people and has been developing intensively lately, and they are right when they ask that something finally be done for them because they have been bypassed throughout history. However, here is another problem that happens to us in the assembly that we often appear as homo duplex, so it was interesting to expose Mr. Markovanovic, who also appears as the head of the municipality and as a parliamentary representative. Well, of course, local self-government units would like to have these toys in their hands so that they can determine who, as well as under what conditions, will get that business space. Well, it's even better if he gets it for a year or two, so he's got to break the door again, better to beg the mayor, the mayor, to rerent. And about the concession or the sales that solve this area much better, of course, we'll talk about it another time. One who has an object or a place in rent cannot use a loan, has no mortgage, is afraid to invest because in two, three years he can go out of course if he likes the leadership of local self-government. In fact, the fact is that obviously this sector has almost no right and it's also the fact that it suits someone. I was interested in following Mr. Cain's presentation that he had just noticed that if we didn't do something in this area, how would the locals be left with the highest quality facilities, the highest quality places in which they could develop further. For me, the obligation to sell, and especially the state, is not a loss because one-time payment means the possibility of further investment in development means finding new locations and new solutions. That is why it is the most important fact that in 15 years we opened the debate in the House for the first time on this subject. On several occasions, it was the Croatian Chamber of crafts that tried but failed this time, even though it was unquality. And it's interesting that here we have a lot more specialists than the Croatian Chamber of crafts who know everything, who know who owns the locals, who know what's best but I believe that this was just a good proposal based on a video of the situation and which can solve future development in quality. However, what I would not like to hear here is additional new accusations for craftsmen that they will be given the privilege, as they got at the time of socialism, of additional abuses, of how speculations will happen at the expense of the state. It would be new injustices allegedly but actually it would be fair not to do anything for them. I think it is precisely a solution to do something of quality, and therefore I expect and I ask that this proposal be supported for a second reading in which we would especially oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to do something to speed up the privatisation of this space, which can, there are no obstacles or constitutional ones. We've heard an estimate that it's about 500 million euros somewhere that could be earned and of course we can spend that money wisely, so if we can book them in anything else to pay back to the pensioners and we'll obviously discuss it in the coming days because we don't have quality sources to solve this space. In the second reading, we could also say something about the first purchase for those who have been renting 10, 20 or even 40 years, and if we do nothing, they might already be on the street tomorrow. Of course, no one will ban us from allowing them to make a payment and that we also recognise in the event of the purchase of the amount of funds invested in the planning of the space. Here, these are the elements that should probably be taken into account in the second reading. That is why it is also important for this law to experience a second reading, and I hope that you have accepted it and that is why you will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14853	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14854	Well, here I am correcting the inaccuracies of fellow Pecek that locals are toy cities from mayors and mayors. Here, I just have to say an example, maybe explain. The Municipality of St. Sunday, although there are 17 thousand inhabitants, has only 6 locals. Of those six bars, four are cafes, so I don't say birdies, one hairdress and one shop. We'd be extremely happy to have one of our 500-600 craftsmen we have shown interest in one of the traditional crafts. They'd give him a minimum fee, but unfortunately, there's no interest in me when I was speaking I was actually on behalf of all these small towns and municipalities where unfortunately for such places there's no interest. And we're going back to Zagreb again, I think.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14855	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this subject. Proposal for a law on the sale of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia, municipalities, cities and counties and the City of Zagreb on which there is a right to rent, first reading, P.Z. No. 68. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on the sale of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia, municipalities, cities and counties and the City of Zagreb on which there is a right to rent, proposed by the Club of Representatives of the HSS for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 74 votes in favour, 28 against and 13 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14858	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have before us or before us a proposal for a Law on Political Parties. Before I briefly explain it, allow me to remind you that this or rather similar text of the law has already been discussed in the previous assembly of the Parliament, then the legislator was the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system which he developed in cooperation with the Croatian Legal Centre and experts one version of the Bill on Political Parties. Our proposal for the law of the SDP Club is, of course, based on this bill but also on the debate that was held at the time on this proposal of the law in this high house because the debate in the first reading was turned into a general debate and for this reason we used the natural observations and suggestions of all clubs, both the opposition and the positions to actually be incorporated into this bill. What is the need to pass the bill? There are several reasons. The first is certainly the one who is looking forward and that is that now the current Law on Political Parties was passed in 1993, it has been changed three times. What's he looking forward to? It looks forward to the fact that the multi-party in the Republic of Croatia has been brought to life very seriously, that multilateral democracy has gone far ahead in relation to some of the solutions that we already have in this law and quite certain that some issues such as financing such as the issue of democratic structure, performances in the exercise of public authority, then the issues of entry and democracy within the achievement of party democracy have also developed to this extent to seek a new legislative solution and a different opportunity. The second is the need to comply with the amendments to the Constitution made in 2000 and 2001. So let us visit the bill to ensure the consistency of the internal structure of political parties based on constitutional democratic principles, to develop a way in which political parties will publicly account for the origin of their assets and assets and fully regulate the position and financing of political parties. In our view, it is an unequivocal interest for all political parties, because of their special and unique constitutional position and constitutional tasks, to limit the free acquisition and freedom of... the use of real estate, money and other assets and to restrict their freedom of entrepreneurship to an extent that will not prevent them as non-profit associations of citizens from performing their constitutional task of ensuring and developing the democratic multilateral system of the Republic of Croatia referred to in Article 3. The Constitution and the formation of the political will of citizens in all areas of public life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This proposal of the law comes from the point of view that political parties are the original entities of the constitution of the parliamentary demographic system of the Constitution and the rule of law, the establishment of a state party, the modern state as the type of property being set up as a representative government system in which political parties establish the indirect identity of the people and authorities as... and a democratic ideal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The bill proposes to settle issues of the political, political party as an entity of the election and as an entity of the organisation. The organization itself. It is therefore proposed to regulate the rules for the implementation of the procedure within the party's proposal and the determination of candidates for the President of the Republic, MPs and members of the representative body of local, regional (regional) self-government, while the procedure for running and selecting candidates for political parties in the Croatian Assembly in the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government as well as for the President of the Republic itself is governed by electoral laws. The political party, as an organisation, is subject to rules in the hierarchical structure and management unit, and according to the third party appears as a participant in legal traffic. The political party as an organisation is just a branched and complex administrative system that requires internal regulations and rules of work and business as well as its own budget. It is also directly subject to legal and other rules relating to the financing of non-profit organisations and its financial operations under supervision should be States... The work and action of the political party as an organisation is the main subject of the regulation of this bill. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By proposing the law, the bill respects the fact that private legal and public legal elements are intertwined in the activities of political parties with the rule of law. Questions such as the name of the political break, the content of the statutes, the content of the political programme, the way individual decisions are taken, the political action of the party towards voters, the attitude towards political institutions, or the institutions of the legal order, the financing of political parties, supervision of financial operations and the like are governed by public law standards. On the contrary, the political party is in certain issues related to its work, as a rule, protected from interference by public authorities. It is an autonomous law created by the political party itself by its own internal regulations in the first order of the statute, which the public authority does not normally have the right to interfere as long as they... acts in accordance with, or are not contrary to, the Constitution and the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important, however, to stress that due to the specific constitutional and public legal role political parties play in the country's political legal order, Article 6(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, The Constitution prescribed that the internal formation of political parties must be in accordance with the fundamental constitutional and democratic principles, therefore, and Article 3 of our Constitution. Under this constitutional provision, the subject of legal regulation is also the regulation of legal rules that will be ensured until the internal structure, the political parties being democratic. The draft law limits the regulation of those legal issues relating to the legal position of political parties in the Republic of Croatia to their internal structure to the extent guaranteed by their democratic character and to the action and financing of political parties themselves. In particular, issues related to the achievement of the public principle in the action of political parties and the availability of public data on their activities and their internal structure are being regulated. A more detailed arrangement of the means of financing political parties and its control, and in particular by prescribing rules on funding and parliamentary old people from the state budget in situations of separation or accession of parties during the term of the Croatian Assembly's term, removes the shortcomings in the current text of the law and fills the legal gap pointed out by the Constitutional Court in 1990, in the decision of the Constitutional Court. The detailed regulation of the political, or the existence of a political party as a legal person removes the possibility of a possible dispute, any disputes that may arise in practice in this regard, in particular, as regards the property of political parties when they cease. We would also like to point out and express our doubts to the Club of Representatives on the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or rather on the position and arguments of the Government for which it would not support this bill. The first observation is that the law is too much to bear, the question arises in fact from which aspect and in which segment is viewed, if the law is seen as a legal instrument that needs to be provided and prescribed not only by the organisation but also by the basic settings of its structure and to ensure the fundamental principles of constitutional order between other multilateralities, equality, then we believe that this Law is not excessive, although it gives sufficient space for the creative role of political parties in that, through the statutes and other acts, practically the offices of the internal structure, in the way they work and act on the one hand, and at the same time the law prevents the development of the so-called political parties. the pathocratic structure of a government that is practically separate from membership because it prevents it from happening that practically parties as multiparty systems or elements of a more party democratic system lead to democracy and wider democratic relations without being democratic within themselves. However, this Law drives them to democratically defined behaviour, organisation and action, not only towards third parties but also within the old woman herself, as well as to increase transparency both towards membership towards the citizens, i.e. in the final line of voters. The second observation to be made concerns whether this law exceeds the framework of constitutional power to adopt the proposed law. We must say that we reject this remark and do not accept them for a simple reason the Constitution warns and says in Article 6 that the Law regulates the work of political parties, their structure and their... Therefore, there is no reason for him to be overstepping constitutional powers, however, in relation to constitutional powers, to regulate these issues, and now whether he is overly detailed on the issue, it is a second question but certainly did not exceed his powers in relation to the Constitution on issues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, it is an interesting observation made in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that some of the issues governing the law are not legal issues, such as The accounting of the political party, i.e. the issue of promiscation, the implementation of the elections, etc., the question of provisions relating to gifts, types of gifts, the register of gifts from political parties, the ban on giving, the receiving of gifts of money or not money gifts, the unreserved support for political parties' activities, and now we start to ask ourselves, we ask ourselves a question. If these are illegal questions why we have brought the law into conflict of interest and why we have, among other things, the Law on Elections, or electoral legislation, a whole series of provisions on candidates, a ban on the prevention of gifts, etc., on... Money, therefore, is in itself already legal issues are regulated by law and with a formal and effective content aspect, and in particular are democratic issues that are important to affect whether individuals or members or whole groups, within the political party can find themselves in a situation not only in conflict of interest to third parties but also in conflict with the interests of certain groups within the political party, that in this way they are imprisoned in certain circles within political parties and that, in fact, a democratic structure, development and way of working of the political party may in fact make it impossible for both work and democracy as a whole and if they transfer it, and certainly, such behaviour will also transfer to their relations in, to third parties in achieving relations with political institutions and institutions, of course, legal institutions of the system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, it is quite interesting for us and a remark that also says: “The government of the Republic of Croatia considers that there are no acceptable provisions of the bill that generates additional obligations both in the state budget and in the budget of the units of local self-government according to which these budgets should allocate funds for the purpose of funding of political parties not represented in the Croatian Parliament and which, and representative bodies of the units of local self-government. In fact, the question arises whether we are giving up supporting political parties related to the development of several parties we have so far. And here it is not only a question to support political parties that are parliamentary but also political parties that have certain activities, therefore not only from the title of elected representatives either in local self-government and state units but rather by the fact that our proposal for law goes according to German laws such as German, Austrian and so on, that if a number of years in a row of political parties do not realise the status of parliamentary parties... to stay. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, in this segment, it is certainly necessary to provide adequate support mainly from the aspect and with, and for the reason that political parties do not relate too much to private capital, and at the same time need to act as public legal holder tomorrow in the interests of all, rather than in the interest of private... capital. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the question needs to be resolved. In this regard, we believe that such an option should be regulated by law, and of course how much in the budget, the individual budget of the units of local self-government will be able to single out the funds themselves will depend on their possibilities, not on the legal obligation that they have to single out just as much or not. Of course, we also note that the proposed law in question is not in line with the nomotechnical rules and regulations, rules that it is inconsistencies and unusual legal styles we must say that it is difficult to accept such qualifications in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept its claim by any argument. We can accept the fact that the majority coalition, either the ruling party or the majority party in the majority coalition, can hardly be such a significant law, which is actually one of the foundations of the law of the political system of the Republic of Croatia, not only of the Republic of Croatia but of all the countries of the modern democracy of the multi-party states and can hardly accept such a bill if it proposes the opposition. It was not intended for us to necessarily raise the issue of resolving these problems, which are related to the political system, especially the position, place and role of political parties in the multi-party system in the Republic of Croatia, because it became quite clear that the situation in which we are in this situation is simply not possible and is not acceptable after three years after 1993, after which the whole series of events slowly appear on the political scene, and above all concerns the non-transparency of the use and use of financial resources and financial operations in political parties. Then one part of the closure of political parties. More and more frequent complaints related to the party's political party governance and, in fact, to the partocratic participation of political parties in public political life related to relations with political institutions and the institutions of the rule of law, that this simply cannot survive anymore, that these issues need to be regulated, open up space and availability to the public of the data of these opportunities. Finally, about the public's ability not only to see the work of political parties but certain control, the public control of which, above all, has a political character, not a legal character, actually a democratic structure and democratic work of political parties. For these reasons, we again feel that it is necessary for the bill to come, come, lead to a clearer definition of the importance of roles and tasks, the tasks of political parties in the democratic multilateral system, then the way they finance, control of funding, their internal structure, then the choice of their political officials and the relationship of their officials to membership within the party and the parties to the institutions of the political and legal system. We believe and believe that the debate on our bill will be of quality, that it will actually shed light on the issues that we have left in the law as possible doubtful issues with the aim of bringing out all possible solutions, seeing how this issue is done as much as possible in the interest of actually being one of the fundamental principles, one of the fundamental values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and this is a multilateral, multilateral democracy can further develop and that it is in the ultimate line no more brake than one of the instruments that will contribute to the further development of democracy, democratic relations in the Republic of Croatia and then the establishment of the rule of law, the control of all political system entities on, based above all on the law, and then control of the political parties themselves, which are also the constituent elements of multilateral democracy in the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, let me say in advance that the Club of Representatives of the SDP will consider all opinions, proposals and remarks which will be presented in the debate, in order to allow the Final Proposal of the Law to propose solutions which will develop and ensure a democratic multiparty system as one of the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, of course if the Croatian Parliament decides to allow this Proposal to enter into another reading, and if it does not decide in this respect and does not make such a decision, we are convinced that this proposal and this debate that will take place today in the Croatian Parliament will be a valid basis for the preparation of the new Bill on Political Parties, which will then propose the ruling party either through its own club of representatives or through the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in this respect we will be happy and satisfied that we have contributed to the development of multilaterals in the Republic of Croatia and through this mechanism and thus through parliamentary debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14859	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to? No, I don't. Then there's a club debate. He is the first respected representative of Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the Club of HNS and PGS representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14860	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, we certainly need a new Law on Political Parties in Croatia too, because at a time when the existing many things have changed and still changed on the political party scene in Croatia, but if we remember the point we have been discussing over the past 6 months, it may be even half a point of the agenda, but certainly more than 70% of the time in the assembly and the working bodies have been spent on discussions on topics that people usually tell us to discuss with ourselves. This is such a topic where we can get into a situation where Croatian citizens object that we have reopened one topic of debate or priority only when it comes to the interests of politicians, and it is good that today these three laws that are also directly related to politicians' interests have not been discussed on the same day. It is certainly necessary to regulate, in the Law on Political Parties, the very clear, quite precise question of the conditions and the way in which political parties are registered in the register as well as their removals from the register by force of the law or other reasons. Both the principles of action and the democratic structure of political parties, their financing, and in particular the transparency of their financing and conditions and the way political parties approach elections, whether local, regional or state elections are involved. But I believe that the Law on Political Parties should certainly not regulate what the parties' bodies will be called, that there will be the names of individual functions within the party, that the party's archives will be conducted, and the organisational structure, and the level of membership, and that there will be accounting, because there is something also important, autonomy, the independence of political entities in every society and so on in Croatia. And I am afraid that the reasons why we need a new law does not lead to this area being over-normised in Croatia, which has happened to some of the countries that have had such or similar problems as we in Croatia and who have tried to solve the problem with too much norm, so they have got quite different effects. There are countries in Europe that provide minimum regulations and regulations in the Political Party Act, which do not condition the establishment of parties to the signature of voters or to the minimum number of party members to be established. There are also those who set quite high limits for the party to be registered at all, not only with the signature, the number of members of the party, but also with the signature of voters, and there are European experiences where, when registering a political party, not a small amount of costs or fees are paid when registering as an obvious consequence of acting to prevent a large number of small, narrow or territorially bound political parties. There are conflicting experiences, where there are no restrictions such as that, but the greatest experience is actually being dragged into what kind of an environment political life has come into being in a particular country. And for this reason, I believe that the attribution of certain rules, and not respecting political circumstances, historical circumstances, culture, tradition and all that affects the development of parliamentary democracy and political life, we can only make new mistakes, perhaps come to a very good and great law that no one in this country will ever respect again. Therefore, allow only a few concrete proposals in the principle debate, and if the law comes to a second reading, then we will specify things. When it comes to the registration of a political party, it is doubtful whether it should be run by a special state body, a administrative organisation or perhaps an election commission. We have one and the other experiences in Europe, and the number of citizens who can start political parties tend to move between 100 and 2,000. I think that the past parliamentary elections were the cause of different attitudes and reflections in this because a large number of voters resented a large number of lists that appeared in the previous elections and, in particular, because of those parties that had never existed or acted on a particular territory in a particular constituency. And to a large extent, it led to the dissipation of voices. The second principle that the law must really regulate is the principle of action and the two protections that we must have, which is that the issue of constitutional principles and respect for the Constitution, and in particular the prohibition of every racial, national, religious, sexual or any other discrimination, or on that basis, is not allowed. The third is an important issue of a democratic structure, especially insurance by law, an active and passive electoral right to internally decide on each party member. As far as party financing is concerned, I think that the funding issue through membership and through donations and budgets should be pooled, and what is most important, that finance, the report and the results of the party's financial performance be transparent, made available to the public in the same way as is prescribed for other organisations, associations, associations and business entities in this country. The final area of this matter and of great interest are the conditions under which a party may go to the elections. Once again, we have experience that somewhere, as in Croatia, political parties should not collect signatures for their lists or candidates, but we have experience especially from the member states of the European Union, where the political party must also collect a number of signatures, regardless of whether it is local, regional and state elections. And by my insight, which I have, that number of signatures when percentages or shifts of voters are converted into numbers, ranged from a minimum of 50 to 2,000. There are also solutions where the number of members of the party is relative to the number of voters being subject to the right to participate in the election race, but I think that one area which is not regulated by this draft law, and there are positive experiences, that the issue of the existence of organisational form in the area and the territory on which the elections are going is actually a basic condition for the party to submit the candidacy, whether it is a candidate for the list or candidate. It is indeed difficult for the party to go out with its candidates and a list of candidates in a municipality where it does not have its own organisational form, in the city or in the county or in the constituency because it is quite the opposite of the objectives and purpose of the party's existence. If we separate only the electoral race, and the basic meaning and purpose of the party's existence is to develop further democratic relations, parliamentaryism and everything else. The question arises as to how it is possible for the party to act and contribute to the development of society if it does not have its own organisational form in an area in which it is competing in the election race. For this reason, I would also like to suggest that the legislator of this Law consider this part of an extremely important regulation. And finally, about control mechanisms, supervision, commissions, commissions and reports that exist in the current regulations or are proposed in these regulations or will come into the government's proposal. All the experiences I have analysed show that all supervisory mechanisms are regulated in the Law, that the report is submitted and written, but I have almost no example that any failure to control and control any party in those countries would have been removed from the register, banned from their operation or in any other way, or any other sanctions came to the point of not being here except pluralism and anarchy, so to speak. I've found two extremely good ways, extremely high-quality methods of control, supervision and sanctions. He has experience where the party who is going to the elections and proposes or submits lists of candidates to the state, local or regional electoral commission when handing over the list must deposit a deposit in the money they are moving amount, I think I have found the largest amount of 17 thousand euros, can you imagine how much less of the lists in such countries, of course after the election, have the right to return that money, and deposited funds depending on the results achieved in the election, and the greatest effect of controlling and punishing irregularities in internal democratic relations, in the way of determining the list of candidates, the transparency of party financing, however, I do not think that you will agree with me either the commission, nor the supervisory bodies, nor constitutional courts but voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14861	Thank you, dear colleague Lesar. On behalf of the IDS Club, dear colleague Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak on this subject. On behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Bošnjakovic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14862	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, colleagues from the SDP who proposed this Law have put a lot of effort into making it because the Law is indeed exhausted and extensive and offers a whole series of solutions. We can say about the terrible situation for the political parties in the Republic of Croatia, what marks the present and the present moment is really an extremely large number of parties on our political scene, we can best see when elections for the state parliament come and we see those popular "emissions" of HTV where the parties represent their candidate lists, I don't think these shows are even seen because they are actually part of parties that no one has ever heard of. They represent candidates who have often understood it as some kind of party after half the night and it's actually quite sad for something as serious as politics and what elections are. However, this is due primarily to the fact that Croatia has more foreigners than 14 years, it is one very short period and things of process that our political scene is profiled and that it remains relevant political parties. A little situation reminds me of the period still in the former state when the Company Act was passed and people mass-based businesses thinking that I should find safety, doing well to have a company, regardless of what the company had never done because... the courts were literally overwhelmed by applications and documents that actually caused those companies to have problems, those companies that were actually working. Well, it's not the same hard thing to pull the parallel, but I think that in fact, over time, our political scene is going to profile that we're going to come to some reasonable number of parties. It may not be too bad to think about increasing the number of party founders needed, as the current law also has a minimum axis of 100 founders and this Law, which is now proposed by 100 founders. If Slovenia has fewer citizens than we do, it has a founding minimum of 200, then I think we should really think about increasing that, I'm not saying that this will lead to the profiling of the political scene but in any case I think it would be far more objective and certainly more difficult to gather 500 founders than 100. As far as the Law itself is concerned, the Croatian Democratic Community Club agrees here with the opinion of the Government and we will not support the Law, but in any case what is most important is that the Law is too far-fetched, there are provisions that my colleague has already warned before me that there is no place in the law because there are a lot of regulations that suggest something, which suggest something, and it is said that such a solution or such a solution can be determined in the Statute, but the law suggests what kind of a solution should be, we have Articles 29, 31, 33, 35, let us say that the statute can provide that the electoral law within the party can be arranged to depend on the payment of membership fees. In our opinion such provisions in the Law should not be, it should simply be left to the domestic acts of the party, meaning the statutes and other acts that the parties autonomously regulate and that those issues themselves resolve, because such provisions in the law itself where we say the statute can do so, that is one suggestion which, according to us, should not take place. The Law also deals too closely with the internal organisation of parties, the bodies of parties, provides for a constitutional court and has a whole series of provisions regarding the internal structure. We also think it's a matter of the party itself and its basic documents and that the Law of These Things should not be dealt with. It is also an important issue that this law raises is the financing and control of party financing, and as far as this is concerned, this is obviously due to the proposal that funding must be transparent and that the funding control mechanism must be far more effective than it is now. And we also advocate that this funding be far more transparent to make these data public, to be available and certain solutions offer also valid law and we also have a constitutional obligation that the parties are obliged to substrate their own income and expenditures to the public. However, it is a matter of applying these provisions, and this needs to be continued, and therefore it should be insisted that this should be applied in practice. As I have already said, we believe that this Law is good that it is on the agenda, with it it is open to this Assembly a very important and significant issue of the functioning of political parties. This Law pointed to certain problems that exist here, this Law has also offered certain solutions that are very relevant, however, precisely because of these certain shortcomings that I said we will not support but in any case consider it very valuable because in the making of the new Law we will assume the Government and as its Proposer said quite certainly that one part of the solution that this Law offers deserves to be found in the new Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14863	Thank you very much, dear colleague Bosnjakovic. It is on behalf of the HSP Club, dear colleague Pero Kovacevic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14864	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The HSP club believes that the time has really matured for the adoption of a new whole Law on Political Parties, we know for ourselves what our current political scene is, the party has every day nothing like mushrooms after the rain, and as they pass the elections, what their infrastructure and everything else we know as well. In our opinion, the Law on Political Parties, in addition to the law on the transfer of power and the Law on conflict of interest, has been drawn up in such a way that these two laws have proposed essential laws for further democratisation of Croatian society and for the establishment of real democratic principles concerning both the functioning within political parties on the political scene and for the very part of the behaviour of the authorities and the prevention of all kinds of conflicts of interest. In this regard, we welcome the SDP Club proposal and the legal proposal on political parties. However, we believe that this legislative proposal has gone into the detailed unnecessary regulation of internal relations in many things, because these are the things that would be regulated by the statutes of the political parties about the work of the assembly of that immersion of the internal structure. We must also say immediately here that, in our court, a party that does not have at least 10,000 members is a matter of survival and the questionability of such a party on a political stage. We know ourselves that it is in past parliamentary elections that the parties that appear from election to election have appeared and have received fewer votes than how publicly they have shown that they have the number of members. Therefore, in all such cases, we should make the order in this section that those parties that do not have 10 thousand members should be deleted from the register of political parties. Normally, there should be at least over 100 people for the establishment, so we agree with this part that it should be 500, but unless in a year there is a figure of 10,000 members, it would exclude political life parties from participating, because obviously that the programme that this party is founded or acting on the political scene has not been supported, because there are not enough members themselves. We also know the situation that many parties, who now exist and are acting on a political scene in Croatia, do not follow their constitutional provisions regarding, say, the part where the Assembly has to convene, when they have to carry out certain things that the statute has set out for them, and these are also reasons for us to delete these parties from the party register in these cases. Also parties that don't have 10,000 members. If we introduce transitional and final provisions, if they do not meet within 6 months, they should also be deleted. We think that the 6-year term proposed for this part of the party's appearance was in parliamentary or other elections that should be shortened by four years. And you should also consider part of how much the party should actually get in the least that it could survive on a particular part, what Mr. Lesar was saying, while there should be a relationship that the number of votes should be seen, if there are 10,000 members, therefore, at least 50,000 votes should be held in the elections. Hence, there are many possibilities and standards that could help us to come to the right legal proposal. I think this SDP law proposal is good for a full debate and as an incentive to make quality, where within the Croatian Parliament, we would have reached out to me on the major and most important issues of a particular consensus, but the problem is that here I am not normally surprised that Mr. Bosnakovic said that the HDZ Club did not support it, because he agrees with the government's opinion, it would surprise me that he said otherwise. But it's sad that they won't experience this law another reading, so obviously, there will be a variant that will wait a long, long time until the government comes out with its legal proposal, and listen, there are presidential elections, and there are new local elections. So there's not much time. If we want to make the right law and to achieve a full consensus in the most important issues. We must commend the solutions contained in the proposal for this law, and above all, concerning the democratisation of the internal organisation of the parties as stated here, which is another incentive for that part of the democratisation to be made within the parties themselves. And we also welcome these solutions related to one clarity in funding, to know how and how political parties can be financed and that it always means that the part is available for both local and parliamentary elections, to introduce the obligation of publication is known how much the parties get if the word is at local level from local, from cities and municipalities where certain results are achieved, it is known in parliamentary. Now, it should be known precisely that both taxpayers and all can at any time check how much has been spent in the campaign, whether it is parliamentary or any other election, whether it is presidential elections. And to know from whom it was obtained. There would be another additional democratic step that could yield good results. Therefore, there are many questions which, in fact, are too much to deal with by this bill. But we support it because it is an important proposal for a new democratisation of Croatian society. And I propose, on behalf of the HSP Club, that we agree on these most important matters, that we parliamentary political parties agree, so that this law in the second reading or when the Government comes to bring it by consensus, means about the number of party members, for funding, for those fundamental principles of work democracy and internal structure. And also for the full supervision and control of that way of party work in terms of whether it adheres to its constitutional provisions, so that we finally introduce order on the political scene, and that should also think closely with that and those laws on parliamentary elections, there is a law on the election of the president of the state and other laws, where we should also consider those variations, let's say you had yourself that it took 500 signatures for parliamentary elections, so people have collected 500 signatures, and when they looked at the results they didn't get 100 people. So there are a lot of these illogicalities, probably in some variants of foreigners or parties who are in power do not answer that few parties participate in the elections, or maybe people are following that through public communications means, if the large number of what Bosnjakovic was saying is normally no longer being followed or reported by people who appear from election to election, and in the meantime they are nowhere. Here, therefore, so much, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14865	Thank you, dear colleague Kovacevic. It's on behalf of the HSLS Club, DC. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak on this subject. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is a respected colleague, Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak on this subject. A colleague named Joseph Leco, also missing, loses his right to speak on the subject. Dear colleague Ivas is here. Here you go, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14866	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. We can define the political party as an organisation that ensures that citizens are represented by giving them special legitimacy to perform their duties. They allow voters to choose even... their legislators and managers by defining the frameworks and the main policy orientation they want to achieve. The law on political parties has now been passed in 93 and has been amended three times. Despite these multiple amendments, however, this law does not regulate this legal area in a satisfactory way. Today is the proposal for a Law on Political Parties proposed by the SDP Representatives Club. The bill's proposal comes from an assessment that the political party has three fundamental roles. First, that the entity of government's behaviour, party representatives are sitting in the Parliament, electing the government, selecting other officials at local and regional levels, etc. It's not the subject of this law, it's governed by the Constitution and the Government Act. Secondly, that the political party is an entity of choice and an electoral party are subject to the arrangements of this bill of law for the implementation of the procedure within the party's proposal and the determination of candidates for the President of the Republic, and representatives and members of representative units of local and regional self-government while the procedure of running and selecting candidates for political parties is governed by the relevant electoral law. So only part of the running matter is governed by this law. And thirdly, the political party is the administrative organisation and the political party's action as an organisation is the main subject of the regulation of the bill. The Proposer also believes that the changes to the 2000 Constitution are in a different way the issue of political parties and that the amendments to the law so far are not in line with constitutional provisions and that the new law needs to ensure that the internal structure of political parties is in line with the fundamental constitutional democratic principles, that the political party will publicly account for the origin of its assets and assets and that the position and financing of political parties is fully regulated. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that Article 6(5) of the Law regulates the position and financing of political parties. Political association as legally guaranteed by the Constitution implies the autonomous right of the political party as a legal person to regulate its internal regulations its internal structure. That is why the basic objection to the proposal of this law is her indignity because she elaborates on certain issues related to the formation of political parties such as the assembly, its composition, part-time affairs, the time of the Assembly of... bodies, then bookkeeping, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the proposal for a law in the first reading is concerned, I will make only three principled remarks on the proposal for this law, and these remarks have been made clear by the Government by rejecting this proposal. That's right in Chapter III. a bill entitled "Internal formation of a political party" prescribed that each party must have a basic body, that it be compatible, to know that there is a general assembly in each party, that there is an executive body chosen by that general assembly with a permanent and equal right of vote. It seems to me that this detailed regulation of issues relating to the internal structure and part-round of the political party is beyond the framework of constitutional authority for the adoption of the proposed law. Secondly, the bill unnecessaryly regulates the matter to be regulated by specific regulations. This primarily refers to the accounting of political parties, as well as accounting, the development of electoral promotion and the implementation of elections as prescribed in Articles 70 and 71. The provisions concerning gifts, the type of gifts, the register of gifts, are also too high, as set out in Articles 55 to 63. However, it is certain that the financing of political parties should be transparent and clear and public and clearly established by clearly established rules. It is necessary to introduce criteria with full public insight into the financing of political parties, especially in the financing of election promotions. The third principled remark is also not acceptable to the provisions introducing additional obligations both in the state budget and in the budget of the units of the regional and local self-government. In this respect, Article 50 of the Law provides for the allocation of funds for the purpose of financing a political party not represented in the Croatian Parliament as well as the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government. We know that in Croatia there are a large number of political parties that are not parliamentary and that someone has said nothing like mushrooms after the rain. There are already over 90 of them today and it is certain that additional criteria need to be introduced in order to allow parties to register and it seems to me that by prescribing that there are enough 100 members, that this is too little and that this figure should be increased far and that this would certainly reduce the number of political parties. It is not possible for all of them to provide additional resources both in the state budget and in the budget of units of local and regional self-government, as this would certainly burden these budgets. From these and other examples presented by HDZ representatives, we cannot accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14867	Thank you, colleague Ivas. It's my dear colleague Tomljanović's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14868	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in its basic provisions, that is, Article 6 of a provision which discusses a democratic multilateral system expressed through the freedom to set up political parties, in fact, provides the basis and constitutional and legal framework for the establishment and operation of political parties in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the establishment of political parties is freely guaranteed by the Constitution and defined as a fundamental right by the Constitution of protected values. However, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia also provides for the following categories. First, the counter-constitution of political parties as such. Second, the internal structure as a way of establishing and acting political parties. Thirdly, the provisions on the origin of assets, indicating the constitutional provision, that the law should, therefore, regulate the issues of positions and the financing of political parties in the Republic of Croatia by special regulation. As regards counter-constitution, the constitutional definition of the illegality of political parties determines that the political parties, which under a) by their programme or by their violent action, are to undermine the free, democratic order or threaten the stability of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia decides on the counter-constitution itself and should not in particular point out that the basic elements of the anti-constitutional system are the structure and content of the political party's programme and action. So, the concrete work of a political party, which, of course, should be marked by violence. As far as the internal structure is concerned, the constitutional provisions of the internal organisation of political parties must comply with the fundamental constitutional democratic principles. If we come from the fact that the very basis for interpreting the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is thus also constitutional democratic principles elaborated and prescribed in Article 3. The Constitution which determines the highest values of the constitutional order. So it's not a waste and here it's a repeat. Freedom, equality, national equality, gender equality, peace, social justice, respect for human rights, integrity of ownership, conservation of nature and human environment, rule of law and democratic multiparty system. We certainly come to the conclusion that there should actually be an internal structure of political parties but also their work. Here I fully agree with those opinions which point out exactly the fact that the degree of democracy of the internal form of political parties and their work is a basic prerequisite for the democratisation of society and for the promotion of the constitutional values already mentioned. The existing legal definition of political parties also points to such thinking or thinking. In fact, political parties, under the provisions of the law, are legal persons who act politically in accordance with the objectives set out in their programme and statutes, so they return to such concepts as essential Crucial, Programme and Statutes of the political party. As regards the origin of the funds and assets, a very important issue, the Constitution has declared the principle of the public to be understood as the duty of all political parties to, in fact, have to publicly account for the origin of their assets and assets. The public deposit of an account as a constitutional category must necessarily be linked here to Article 6(5). The Constitution which determines that a special law also regulates the way in which political parties are financed where the principle of the public becomes the basis for laying down legal provisions. Furthermore, freedom of association is the basis of a political system based on recognition of pluralism of interest. The free association of citizens in the political party is a condition for the effective functioning of a democratic political system based on the competition of political parties, which receives its essential expression in free elections and should certainly be stressed that the basic prerequisite for the democratic way of action of a particular political system is the existence of a periodical, peaceful and above all civilised change of parties in power through free elections, understood as a normal and regular way of functioning of the political order, a democratic constitutional system in which the periodical change of parties to the elected voters through elections is a necessary and regular way and a confirmation of the real functioning of the political system but a fundamental confirmation of the effectiveness of constitutional or above-mentioned constitutional values. In order to establish such a system, ultimately devoid of all legal misunderstandings, it is necessary to clearly bring, i.e. in the legal system, a quality Law on political parties as a necessary prerequisite for the institutionalisation of the democratic policy of the system, among other things in which political parties compete, change to authorities without political, sociological, existential and other unnecessary crisis situations in society. As far as the specific provisions of the proposed law are concerned, I point out, therefore, under 1st, the proposal for a law is indeed exaggerated especially when we talk about issues relating to the very formation of political parties. In my opinion, it should be interpreted as the autonomous right of each individual political party as being a legal person to regulate its specific internal structure with its internal regulations and decisions, of course, with full consent and everything must be in full agreement with the constitutional and normative framework. Norms, of a financial accounting nature should also not be found in my opinion a place in the proposed regulation and provisions on a political party as a donor, or a donor should be arranged in another way. And thirdly, for several reasons, those provisions of the law which create preconditions for the financing of those political parties that were not represented either in the Croatian Parliament, at the state level, or at the level of units of local or regional self-government are unacceptable. Not only would such a solution further burden the budget, perhaps and not the only or biggest problem, but on the Croatian broken political scene, it would unnecessarily stimulate the establishment of new political parties but a slight political influence and an unrecognizable political profile which in every country's political life, I think, and we see from our practice and it does not give God a very good idea of what results and also colleagues have discussed, I think, in a good way. In conclusion, there is no doubt a need to pass laws on political parties, of course in an even more or as much a more quality way or more quality solutions as it is in the proposed law. However, the adoption of the law in the proposed form and without a comprehensive or even broader expert and public debate would not present at this point in my opinion the most qualitative solution. However, it is absolutely necessary, both at this time and at the end of my debate, to give recognition to the authors of the bill itself because there has been a lot of effort, a lot of what the profession says and this Law or the bill's proposal in terms of discussion or basic positions to discuss that we all eventually get to the best-quality solutions is actually a good basis for such a one, one process. But of course, I absolutely agree with the government's opinion and attitude, or what the government has given as an opinion, in light of the very proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14869	Thank you, dear colleague. It's my dear colleague, Lugari. Here you are, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14870	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, here all the participants in the debate mostly stuck to one topic, and you, since the first reading, let us talk about a very specific problem and perhaps give a proposal that concerns the participation of young people in the work of political parties but also in social life in general. A concrete proposal to consider in Article 25 or another concerning the principles for the formation of political parties, to include the principle of age-related involvement, i.e. the reduction of age-discrimination in all of this. In fact, I would like to point out that this was unanimously adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 2 October 2002 and when we discussed the National Programme here in the Croatian Parliament, it was indeed the attention of both MPs and all the measures that it had just said that in the Law on Political Parties, which is the Law on which we are discussing today also the instruments of positive discrimination of young people and, among other things, the introduction of quotas for young people but not only quotas. It's not all fiction or anyone else's, it's a proposal for young people, but it's also an expert who deals with young people, who explore young people as a special social group. Although there are a number of contradictions around the introduction of quotas that can be well and agreed on, there are still a number of reasons why young experts are involved, I personally believe that some of these institutions should be introduced into political parties. I want to point out, I think it's very important that I don't say this for myself, because of my party, because of my age, because of my colleagues from the SDP Youth Forum, because SDP is one of the few parties that has already introduced these instruments and we have good experience, and I personally think that this should become a general model. Why? Today, young people in Croatia are characterized by minimal social and political influence, even when it comes to problems that concern our generation primarily, although young people from 15 to 29 years of age represent, from 18 to 29 years of age, 22% of Croatian electoral bodies and represent between 15 and 30% of their membership in political parties. Young people in the authorities from parliament to local levels are extremely sub-represented. For example, in the 90th year until today, the proportion of young representatives and representatives in the Croatian Parliament ranged between 0% and 2%, today in the Croatian Parliament under 30 years, the three of us, for the SDP well, for the state and the other parties, we are all from the SDP, and no other party has any representative or representative under 30 years. It's a similar matter with the executive authorities. In this term of office of about 130 most prominent officials, there is hardly anyone under 30 years old, and since the staff base and for these executive functions and election still form political parties, it is obvious that most parties are still not prone to affirm or promote their young members or activists. Of course there are exceptions. I have already mentioned one of these exceptions is the SDP, my party, which not only because of orientation, because of the political programme, but also because of a formal obligation and statute that respects youth representation. In addition to us here in the Assembly there is a good example of the Zagreb City Assembly where of the 20 MPs and representatives of the SDP there are five younger than 30 years, resulting in a series of initiatives for young people in the city of Zagreb. Here's the last one now, in July, the city action programme for young people will be adopted, and it wouldn't have been if it hadn't been for those young colleagues and friends of mine. One more argument. According to research, young people today are very determined to support democracy. They want to take part in it, but the mistrust of these institutional structures prevails. They are young today less than in the past loyal to these traditional structures of political and social action. It primarily refers to political parties, trade unions and their involvement in this democratic dialogue at a lower level. On the other hand, the attitude of young people towards politics can be considered ambitious. On the one hand, they consider participation in politics necessary but do not recognise the negative impact of the absence of this participation on their overall social position. Both are powerful indicators and call for action. The next thing I want to point out is the fact that the latest research on young people shows that most young people are aware of their own political marginalisation and that the reasons for this are found in the inadequacy of the elderly to leave them part of their political and social space, but also in the incompetence of their own generation. There is insufficient information in civil society, in democracy, in the process of political decision-making and in the way of political action. Although the majority of young people feel that political engagement has a sense of mercy, a very small number is deciding on active participation. Most young people are dissatisfied with the representation of their generation in the authorities, which is why they generally hold that quotas for young or similar instruments in political parties should be applied primarily in the party's electoral lists to improve that participation. The situation is slightly better as regards youth participation in NGOs but young people active in NGOs avoid co-operation with political institutions and political parties. So I think it is very important, I also see the role of this Croatian Parliament to insist on changing awareness, public awareness of the importance of active participation of young people and on opening up a social and political space for their action, opening up a space for information and education of young people, for participation in democratic society and improving the cooperation of the government and non-governmental sectors. Finally, the last but not least important point is that the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union will be one of the important conditions for involving young people in social life. It is the JUT programme of the European Commission and the European Union that imposes in this respect very high standards on the inclusion of young people in social life, but it also prescribes the responsibility of implementing and achieving those standards exclusively in Member States. In this regard, young people may become the top topic of the UNDP's latest report on the social development of Croatia, which this year is dedicated exclusively to young people. Because of all the things I have said, I think it would be good that once again and perhaps more about this here in the Croatian Parliament and we are discussing the possibility and the introduction of a quota for young people or instruments of positive discrimination of young people in political parties are now concrete, and perhaps elsewhere. Unfortunately, the majority of Croatian politicians are against such a decision although the majority of young people around, according to surveys between 60 and 75% depending on the source, thinks they would be, these instruments are very effective. Political practice has already shown that the increase in the participation of marginal groups depends on a public awareness that opens up space for their affirmation but that political parties with internally established corrective quotas are a lever of changing the unsatisfactory state. The experience of women, in the participation of women in this political life, has shown that almost nowhere is public awareness that everything could be left to regulation and competence alone. In other words, changes in social awareness take place at a slow pace to speed up the process, social regulation and positive discrimination of marginal groups prove to be effective corrective instruments. All of this would help within party democratisation, especially the democratisation of political life in Croatia, and would enable authentic representation of the interests of young people at decision-making sites. They would also contribute to raising awareness of the fact that in Croatia other than regional, gender and other inequalities there is also a age-by-age stratification whose result is age discrimination especially in political processes. And at the very end, since I have some time, we, I almost identically debated this one two years ago. Unfortunately, nothing changes. It even seems to me that things are going backwards and it is certainly not good and it is not for the development of Croatia either for young people or for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14871	Thank you, colleague Lugaric. And the last debater of counterpart Antun Vujic. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14872	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. ... [[You can't hear the speaker because of a microphone malfunction.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14873	We got a tip that it looks like the microphones aren't working, so it's for a pay phone colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14874	I must say, Mr. Vice President, I was thinking less pretentiously less of discussing this problem, but we've come to the point where I also want to say something. And this, therefore, is that apart from the Election Law, the Party Law can do a lot of things in terms of choosing the character of democracy in Croatia. And so, once again, I note, given the microphones that I could agree that it is not necessary for the law to be passed, one or the one that the government will propose or some combination of all these laws to be less normised in all parts except in my opinion in one part. This is the part that we have been missing from the first day in creating democracy in Croatia, which is very, very clear provisions concerning financial policy and financial business of parties. This should, in my opinion, be worked out at least as rigorously as it's now worked out, and I guess maybe even better working it out would be even better. I will warn only a few experiences that occur in the west, and that one is Canadian, and the other is Austrian. If, for example, in Canada, where it is also elected in the individual candidates' direct elections, it is found that a candidate spent more on his campaign than was allowed to spend, he is suspended. So he can't consume his mandate, he's suspended because he shouldn't have spent as much as he spent. It is one of the fundamental protections of democracy in democratic countries. Yes, so it can't be assumed that someone who will have a lot of resources, who will be able to buy, I don't know what kind of campaigns, who will be able to be present in the media, etc., etc. At the same time, it can rule a country, even as big as Canada, let alone much less as Croatia or as Austria is, and are also there, which is why I mentioned very rigorous demands when it comes to the financial operations of the parties, especially the costs related to the elections. Well, of course, at the price that as is known, who remembers and who has followed the last ten years of what has been going on there, the big affairs that have been shaken by some parties in Austria and which have ended with the demissions of some otherwise very prominent people in Austria's political life, which still, therefore, could not behave these functions. In that sense, it is not a question of whether we will have a threshold of a hundred, two hundred, and I do not know how many JMBGs that will sign access to this party or that party, but the question is whether we will stimulate the democratic character of the parties within which we will be able to get a more uniform, quality, political distinction and at the same time stimulate one, so to speak, a creative process of relations between the parties. Because in fact, everything that comes through the financial privileges that each structure has comes back as political enmity in political life, and then also in parliamentary life. It's, I mean, the trap of this dynamic relationship between the funds and the illegal acquisition of funds, and then the spending of funds. Which only, i.e., those funds become a political relationship. Therefore, I would kindly support that, of course, this law is re-evaluated once again, to go to another reading and that it may indeed be released in some way and certain elements of normation that may not be so important. I am saying, of course, very personally, but that in any case it is insisted on one very, very clear, that very clear, therefore, clauses concerning the financial way of obtaining funds and spending funds in parties and that this is understood as actually a fundamental contribution to the future development of party life in Croatia, and then actually the character of democracy itself in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14875	Thank you, dear colleague. I'm closing the debate. This law will be voted upon when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14876	Proposal for a law on political parties, first reading, P.Z. No. 81. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on political parties proposed by the SDP Representatives Club is not adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 74 votes in favour, 35 against and 9 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14877	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Proposal for a law on one-time property tax, proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, first reading of P.Z. No. 82. The bill promoter is the SDP Representatives' Club. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. You received their reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the bill? Yeah. Word has colleagues Zgrebec on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14878	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, this Law is a direct consequence of the situation identified by the revision of the conversion and privatisation, i.e. the reports we received from the State Audit Office and the State Attorney's Office, in which I am saying that a huge number of unsanitary illegalities which are not sanctioned due to antiquity in the processes resulting from conversion and privatisation. Namely, the process of conversion and privatisation has been one of the most intriguing political and economic issues in the Republic of Croatia for almost a decade. He was politically directed, inadequately supervised and controlled, and the illegalities found to remain largely unsanctioned. That it is true, it has also shown through its reports, but in the long-term refusal of the governments at the time to pass a special law on the revision of conversion and privatisation with reasons that the control of procedures and conversion and privatisation and sanctioning is also possible under the existing Law on Conversion and Privatisation, which was not in practice the case. And actually what has been determined by the current process of reviewing conversion and privatisation? The conversion solution received a total of 2 000 911 social enterprises, with a core capital of 28.2 billion marks. The Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation, which was adopted in May 2001, provided that a total of 357 applications for audits relating to 927 companies would be audited within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this Act, but the revision was also to be carried out in companies where the purchase privatisation was carried out, then in companies financed from the budget or from funds outside the budget funds and in companies where the exchange of shares or the provision of shares was carried out on management. As well as companies in which an application for unpaid taxes and contributions has been written off or a write-off of the request from the State Agency for the Rehabilitation of banks, the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the Mirovinski and the Health Fund. By the end of this year, while the legal deadline will cover a thousand 560 social enterprises that participated in the conversion, and about 2,000 of their related companies. Until the last report we discussed here in Parliament, there were a thousand 269 social enterprises with their related enterprises and core capital, which at the time of the conversion amounted to 23.4 billion German marks, or 83% of the total core capital of all companies that participated in the process of conversion and privatisation. And what did the audit say? It found that the company's assessment of the value did not include assets worth 408 million German marks. That less estimated assets are worth 119.3 million German marks. That the overestimated liabilities for revolving loans in banks amounting to 356 million German marks and that the assessment does not include land of 2.3 million square meters and construction facilities in an area of 81 square meters. So in these 1269 companies, what happened to the basic capital of employees and other economic categories. The core capital in these companies at the time of conversion was 23.4 billion, German marks, while at the time of the audit it was only 19.4 billion or 3.9 billion less or 16.9% less than the capital at the time of conversion. At the time of conversion, 538,000 726 workers were employed at the time of the audit, 209 thousand 300 employees or 61.1% less were found. In bankruptcy, from 1269 to now, the audited companies went 245 or 19.3%. The total value of assets not included in the valuation of the value in these 1269 companies is 883.2 million German marks. On a total of 1269 audited companies, only 63 companies or 5% received a special opinion from the State Office on the correctness of the conversion carried out in accordance with Article 19. The law on the revision of conversion and privatisation. The revision so far has identified 1429 irregularities of which 521 irregularities are prescribed by the law of sanctions, and even imagine 908 irregularities established by law are not even sanctioned and, above all, by the Law on Conversion and Privatisation. 68 criminal charges have been filed, and out of 10 8 reports in the light of a special report to the State's attorney, there are 85 criminal reports for certain irregularities filed earlier, so before the State Office audited those companies. 197 irregularities have been found to have the mark of a misdemeanour or a commercial offence under previously applicable laws, which have ceased in 1996, have no more characteristics of a violation or a commercial offence and for 73 irregularities have been found to have a punitive character or to have no criminal character by the adoption of a new Law on the issue and transport of securities. There is only a few more information to say about what the State Attorney's Office found in its report, which also provided an overview of the reports submitted regarding the process of conversion and privatisation in the period from 1991 to June 2002. During that period, 1028 persons in the structure of the criminal offences reported were 64% concerned with offences of abuse of position and authorisation under Article 337. Penal Code, 22.3% on abuse of power in economic business. From 1028 registered persons to 1 June 2002, applications relating to 308 persons have been rejected, while 281 persons have been charged, the verdicts made concern only 85 persons of which 81 convicted and 34 are liberating and refuting. The State Attorney's Office's report notes that the work on reported criminal offences affects the weight of obtaining evidence, the flow of time the complexity of the crime, the lack of qualified experts who are willing to expert in economic matters. A large number of negative decisions, i.e. rejected applications, refer to the limitation of deadlines for submission, there is a wide range of actions that have been committed abuses and other illegalities in conversion and privatisation. The State Attorney's Office finds that all identified irregularities and illegalities do not always have the character of a criminal offence and that only through criminal proceedings cannot the objectives set out in order to correct illegality in the processes of conversion and privatisation be achieved. In other words, in order for this process that is very negatively assessed in the Croatian public to be as much orderly as it takes political will. Therefore, by discussing the revision of the conversion and privatisation of the Croatian Parliament in May 2002, he made a whole series of conclusions between the other and the following conclusion: It undertakes the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose to the Parliament within 60 days the adoption of amendments and additions and new laws necessary to sanction the crime committed in the conversion and privatisation, i.e. the protection of the economic and other public interests of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the conversion and privatisation, which will allow the perpetrators of illegal actions during the privatisation process to be fairly and legally processed and sanctioned. DESCRIPTION of the origin of the funds that privatization has been made and sanctioning an illegal acquirer. On the basis of the conclusion in November 2002, the government submitted a proposal for a single property tax law on which a general debate was held. Our proposal for this Single Property Tax Act is based on the proposed law and the observations resulting from the debate which was treated as a general debate. And these are the most frequent irregularities related to privatisation in business. The State Audit Office says that the shareholders of unpaid shares or shares did not provide a copy of the transfer of shares or shares contract with the Fund. The new acquirers were used by management rights on the basis of transferred shares from small shareholders and did not regularly pay off shares and, due to the lack of payment, the fund broke off contracts with a delay of several years. Then, shares and shares acquired by the conversion of social enterprises were not trying to sell for several years, which is not in line with the provisions of Article 31. The law on the conversion of social enterprises. In the sale of shares by public offerings, the Fund often did not contract share payment instruments or subsequently changed quality instruments such as bank guarantees, less quality, for example by stock exchanges. In the case of irregular payments, the Fund and Croatian Pension Insurance broke off contracts with a delay, all shares returned to their portfolio and returned the amount paid to customers, the buyer used management and property rights in the meantime until the contract was terminated. The company used its own resources to pay shares of small shareholders or to lend small shareholders. The acquirers bought shares from small shareholders, defenders or funds at prices significantly lower than the nominal price and later sold them to a higher-price company, thus the company acquired Treasury shares that previously did not meet the conditions laid down by the Company Act. The companies sold assets that were not included at all in the estimated value of the companies under the provisions of Article 47. The Privatisation Act was to be introduced into the Croatian Privatisation Fund by such assets which were not assessed and entered into social capital. The management did not set up a stock book and changes to the stockholders or shares were not recorded in due time. The trading companies did not pay the respective dividend to the Fund even though the assembly voted to pay the dividend and it was paid to some of the shareholders. Trade companies have not implemented a recovery in accordance with the recovery programme. In the very process of converting the state audit office, the following irregularities pointed out that the assessment of the value of the undertakings was carried out on one date, and the confirmation of the regularity and reality of the balance sheet provided by the audit firms related to the second date. A part of the company's assets is not included in the estimated value, although it has been shown in the accounts, and for an asset that has not been estimated subsequently has not been renewed or the asset has been transferred to the fund. Requests not charged within 60 days of maturity were to be corrected, but if they were also assessed by zero value, but if they were to be charged were to be subsequently entered into the underlying capital, or transferred to the fund, if a solution had been issued before. The requirements based on the accounts and the revaluation were, as a rule, not recorded in the company’s business books. The development programmes do not include a feasibility assessment and a financial aspect of the business and cannot be monitored. The recapitalisation was mainly not carried out in accordance with the conversion programme and the funds invested were not spent on purpose etc. Therefore, in these two reports, one refers to the State Audit Office's reports on the revisions of conversion and privatisation so far carried out. And the second applies to the state's attorney's office which says that both the attorney's office and the judiciary are, in part, unskilled for the conduct of such processes, and the other part, that most of such processes have gone into obsolescence. We believe that we should have the political will to still be in one part, and we suggest that tax policy sanction a part of this kind of illegality. And what we propose to this law. The proposal for a single property tax law proposes to regulate the payment of a one-time tax on property of natural and legal persons acquired during and in relation to the conversion and privatisation or the means made on the basis of these procedures, as well as those in business with the Republic of Croatia, local and regional self-government units, and legal persons in which the Republic of Croatia and the units of local and regional self-government were exclusive or majority shareholders or stakeholders. The revenue achieved under this law would be intended to promote development and employment. The bill's proposal should be one of the programme's priorities for action against crime in conversion, in a way that compares the property situation of the debtor before the conversion process with today's, and the cutting of the criminal, some say a better term would be a fair tax. If the total taxes paid by the debtor during that period do not correspond to taxes, which he was obliged to pay, given the difference in the property situation as well as to intensify the persecution of perpetrators of criminal offences in the conversion and privatisation and to give priority to sanctioning those offences by authorised state authorities. The proposed law would single-tax the assets of natural and legal persons acquired from sources for which a valid legal basis of acquisition cannot be established in the tax procedure, as well as sources which were not taxed under the rules which were in force at the time of the acquisition of those sources. and the special benefits of its acquirer. In fact, it has often occurred that shares and shares were purchased loans from government funds such as the Health Fund, the Employment Fund, then the pension and health fund and the like, without an adequate rate of interest in the conditions when inflation, monthly inflation was two figures. The bill also regulates the establishment of a tax base in such a way as to make it a property on 31st day. 12. In 2003, and progressive rates of taxation are prescribed. The fundamental objective of the bill is to single-tax persons who participated in the conversion and privatisation process as well as persons who acquired property through inheritance or other means without compensation from taxpayers who participated in the process of conversion and privatisation, and contrary to the regulations and persons who acquired property in business with the Republic of Croatia, local and regional self-government units and legal persons in which the Croatian unit of local and regional self-government was exclusive shareholders or stakeholders. It is about persons who have acquired property by avoiding payment of legal obligations, i.e. using special benefits that have not been available to all persons of the Republic of Croatia. And a few words specifically about the law itself. Article 1 provides for the introduction of a single tax on the property of natural and legal persons acquired in the process of conversion and privatisation. Article 2 lays down the subject matter of taxation of assets acquired directly or indirectly in the process of conversion and privatisation from sources of which I have already said a little earlier. Article 4 provides for a tax base. And Article 3 of the taxpayer. And Article 5 is determined by progressive tax rates in such a way that more than 600 thousand tax bases are over 600 thousand salaries, i.e. up to 600 thousand salaries of 35 %, and above that up to a million and 400 are determined by a fixed amount plus a variable amount of 70 to 510 thousand kuna, i.e. an additional of 40 to 80 %. We suggest that the taxation process is conducted by the Tax Administration or in an alternative to being a special government commission unless it would be able to do the Tax Administration. Articles 9 to 16 shall be subject to a single tax procedure in such a way as to give an order to the taxpayer, at the same time as the beginning of the procedure. The contents of that order and the obligation of the taxpayer to make a declaration of their property on the date laid down by law are also prescribed, so 31. 12. In 2003. Articles 17 to 23 provide for insurance measures for the collection of the tax liability which will be established in the establishment process. Articles 24 to 25 also lay down penalties for offenders who will not comply with the provisions of this law. And a few more sentences to say about the government's opinion that it proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept such a law. The government, in its opinion, calls for the payment of one-off tax to make illegally acquired assets legal and that illegality can only be established before the court. However, here we point out that it is not about those actions that can still be brought before the court, but about the actions that have gone out of date and can no longer appear before the court. So I repeat, we think that the adoption of this law and the confiscation in some way illegally acquired assets through taxation at high progressive rates actually demonstrate the political will to at least partially sanction such persons who have thus participated in the process of conversion and privatisation. However, if there were political will, we could pass a special constitutional law that would sanction such punishable acts that could no longer appear before the court because they went out of date. The government also says that this proposal would be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that it does not respect constitutional provisions guaranteeing the right to acquired investment and which cannot be reduced by law or other legal act. We call here to the fact that the Constitution does not guarantee in any of its articles the rights acquired by investing in capital acquired in an illegal, illegal and illegal manner. It is also said that this could not be managed by the tax administration on duty. We don't think that's true. Tax administration can always determine if tax is not paid, for which reasons it is not paid. It can always determine the obligation to pay taxes, ducks can also impose criminal measures that it does because it accounts and squeezes interest but if we agree it can do so, we propose, in an alternative, the Government's commission in particular. Finally, the government says that the very act of signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union would not allow Croatia to submit proposals for laws that do not comply with the legal acquis of the European Union. We are not yet a member of the European Union. As far as we know, the European Union does not yet intervene through its legislation in the tax systems of members of the European Union, and since this is a one-time tax that is past the tax policy system in Croatia, we think that even in the Government's view, it does not prevent us if we have the political will to pass such a law to declare it in parliament. There, so much for an introduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14879	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. A representative of the government doesn't want to either. I'm opening a debate. Clubs. Our first is Caine on behalf of the IDS Club. He's gone. He's losing his word on this subject. Other respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14880	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs! The Croatian Democratic Community's club fully supports the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and will not support the adoption of a single property tax law proposed by the SDP club. The Croatian Democratic Community's club believes that in its opinion the Government of the Republic of Croatia has very clearly and reasonedly explained why this bill is not good, why it does not offer solutions that will correct the wrongs committed and why such a law will not benefit the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I would therefore like to refer to the government's opinion and show that the proposing's intentions are mainly about unconscious political marketing and political demagogy. Analyzing this proposal, the government said in its opinion. By paying a one-off tax, and as proposed by the proposed law, the property obtained by law would become lawful because it would be taxed on property acquired from a source without a valid legal basis, and in particular property acquired by actions which have the meaning of a criminal offence or acquired by legal transactions contrary to the principles of the legal order, coercion and public morality. This same property in criminal or criminal proceedings could be seized. The provisions of the proposed law in question are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The objective that is to be achieved cannot be achieved by passing such a law but should be punished by judicial proceedings by those who have acquired the property illegally. It is very interesting that after four years of its power, the SDP wants to legalise illegally acquired assets, so I ask the question of whose interest it is to introduce a property tax instead of criminal liability obtained without a valid legal basis. I remind you that in 2002 the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent this law into the parliamentary procedure, but at that time it was not of interest to pass the law. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia states in its opinion that the subject and proposal for a law does not contain a clear definition of actions in the process of conversion and privatisation being incriminating, which is considered to be the acquisition of assets in business with the Republic of Croatia, units of local and regional self-government and legal persons that are exclusively or in the majority ownership of the Republic of Croatia and units of local and regional self-government, which is considered property acquired under special benefits, which is considered to be an appropriate price for acquired assets under special benefits and how to identify assets acquired under special advantages, or by which criteria the amount for property has been acquired under special benefits. It is also not acceptable that the procedure under official duty is conducted by the tax administration because the competent courts and the tax administration should be responsible for the proposals and requests for the initiation of the procedure. It is also unacceptable to lay down the provisions of Articles 6 and 7 where it is left at the will of the tax administration to determine who is to be designated as a taxpayer. It is proposed that the tax administration address issues for which courts are competent, which is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, because this would mean the concentration of the judicial authority in the hands of the executive authority. Furthermore, the proposal in question covers and conditionally speaking tax-sanctioned legal situations which have ended and are in their legal nature the final acts and can be concluded that, in a specific case, there is retroactiveness, and not certain provisions, which are already permitted by constitutional law, the retroactiveness of the whole law. Therefore, the adoption of this law would introduce legal uncertainty and send such a message to domestic and foreign investors who would certainly deter them from investing and including in the privatisation process in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community's club will not support the proposed law in question because it believes that, apart from its legal indetermination and unfoundedness, it is harmful to the political and economic interests of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14881	On behalf of the SDP Club, the respected deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14882	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Unlike the HDZ Representatives' Club, the SDP Representatives' Club will support the adoption of this law and vote for it and this is perfectly normal. This is one of the laws or one of the issues on which there is a split between these two clubs, so if you want these two parties, because a completely different approach to the issue of conversion and privatisation and the property acquired by conversion and privatisation has HDZ versus SDP and vice versa. And here it is quite clear what we are looking for, that those assets that have been acquired and which, based on the findings of the state audit, have been found to have been acquired in a really illegal way or, if you will, in an immoral way among other abuses of the position of authority, abuse of powers in economic business, etc. that such assets are, in the case of assets resulting from conversion and privatisation, in the case of assets acquired in the business of the Republic of Croatia with units of local and regional self-government with legal persons in which the Republic of Croatia and units of local and regional self-government are exclusive or majority... or shareholders that, in fact, such property is taxed and taxed if it is not for that property, such acquired property is not paid tax. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, respected colleagues and colleagues, a large number of negative decisions rejected apply to the limitation of deadlines. For the submission of applications, there is a wide range of leprosys that have been committed abuses and other illegalities in the conversion and privatisation, and you and we all know this together since the conversion of demand into shares of stock companies, the failure to enter assets into the foundations of the company's capital and then the sale to the damages of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the conduct contrary to Article 8(2). Law on the conversion of social enterprises, financing... Shareholders in the acquisition of shares, fictitious recapitalisations and other different forms of unfavourable acquisition of shares in internal recapitalisations, different manipulations in the case of shares acquired by small shareholders' rights discounts, the unlawful establishment of shares' bodies and their work related to the majority of votes, damage to the rights of small shareholders in the work of those bodies, then damages and unconscious contracts of direct abuse to the purpose of extracting money from shareholders, acquisition and traffic of their own shares, unrealistic reduction and increase of core capital, manipulation when determining and paying dividends at the expense of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, unconscious work and conclusion of harmful contracts, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Actually, why did I say that we all know that now? Because this SDP, especially a former ruling coalition party in the previous parliament meeting, spoke very loudly and very much before 2000 and before 2003. Now we all know because after it was passed during the ruling coalition of the Law on Revision, Conversion and Privatisation, the state audit found this particular irregularity and it was cited on the basis of its findings, that on the basis of such failures of abuse of positions and powers, property acquired by conversion and privatisation and in business between legal persons with the Republic of Croatia... local self-governments and their companies in which they have a majority share or a majority share. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That this is the case and that we have all been seriously concerned also confirms a number of conclusions, among other things, which the Assembly has made and, for example, quoted as saying: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia has committed...", I quote: "... that within 60 days it proposes to the Croatian Parliament to amend and supplement the new laws necessary to sanction committed crime in the conversion and privatisation, i.e. the protection of the economic and other public interests of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the conversion and privatisation that will allow the perpetrators of illegal actions during the privatisation process to be fair, processed and sanctioned. In order to determine the origin of the money that privatization was made and to sanction the law... Unfortunately, there have been changes within the legal system and also within the criminal justice system, in particular in the criminal law under which the periods of limitation have been reduced, under which some of these criminal acts have been deleted as criminal offences, and in such a situation, a legalisation process has actually been opened, illegally acquired property, or better said, has prevented court action and the exercise of law, i.e. protection against the illegality of the interests of both the Republic of Croatia and its citizens, in relation to the perpetrators of criminal offences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You see respected colleagues and colleagues, the objections put by the Government of the Republic of Croatia simply do not stand. First, we need to know one of the basic principles of tax policy, not only in our country but in the world at all, but also in the general tax code, that the tax is paid regardless of how the property is acquired. The property has to be paid tax. Therefore, it is not true here, for example, that, as the objection here states, if such tax assets are paid, such acquired assets would be legally acquired, illegally acquired property, not to exclude court proceedings. No, but tax collection would actually ensure that one equivalent, proportionate equivalent to the property acquired in the financing of public costs and public duties they order, each according to the Constitution is obliged to act and finance. And this does not exclude proceedings in the case of illegality or criminal offences committed under a court of law or the act of the authorities being prosecuted and that they are actually processing such cases, of course where it is possible, where it will not be highlighted, as has already been done in most cases, and where due to the objection of antiquity, practical procedures have to be suspended and can no longer be handled, but then, in fact, it becomes that legal property which is unlawfully and by means of a state audit, the established way obtained. We must also point out ourselves that when it comes to the tax administration it is not true that the tax administration can only initiate proceedings or conduct proceedings, it can also initiate and conduct procedures under official duty when it is established that tax laws are not respected. And in this particular case, we suggest here that in these cases where property was found to be so acquired, that such acquired property for which no tax has been paid was not paid, nor any fees were paid, that the social, or the state community was depreciated, and that taxes were paid, and that, in that way, at least on the basis of ensuring how much, if I were to say so, it would be wrong to say it was wrong to punish those who have thus acquired the property to pay taxes in accordance with not only their legal obligations but also constitutional obligations. Because for all these reasons, we believe that this law is necessary, that it should be passed and that for these reasons we will support this law and vote for it and, of course, those who feel that this is an unacceptable law, that it should not be passed, and that, for the reasons that the government has adopted in its opinion and has indicated them in its opinion and they repeat it, must clearly consider trying to be able or seeking an opportunity to answer to themselves, to us, to the Croatian public and Croatian citizens. And what measures will be taken in the first place towards those who have acquired huge assets in this way, they will not be processed because of the statute of limitations and did not even pay the tax on that property. What are you gonna do? Or what are we gonna do? The question that is both moral and legal and political and hospitality and social, however you wish, and we can say that in this law something needs to be done, something needs to be changed, but that it should be accepted, that it should not be approached by solving this issue, it simply cannot be, because we all knew, someone like this, someone, someone, someone with more or less evidence and challenged such a implemented conversion and privatisation from the aspect above all the acquired property that has crossed into the private hands of individuals or individual groups. But we can no longer pretend to know less than we know after the state audits. The state audit has simply shown in 1028 how many cases it has completed if I remember the numbers so far, and of course by the end of the year it will carry out a complete audit, that there have been 1269 social enterprises, that there have been a whole series of irregularities that I quote: "... that, among other things, from 91 to 2002, a total of 1028 persons reported in the structure of the reported criminal parts of 64% refer to the criminal acts of abuse of position and authority, to abuses of powers in economic business, from 1028 registered persons until 1 June 2002 were only rejected applications relating to 38 persons while indicted 281 persons, only 85 of which 81 convicted and 34 refusing and rejected.". Dear colleagues, I only say again 81 condemning in 1028 cases for which the State's audit established and sent to the State's Attorney's Office to initiate the procedure. Now that you've taken the last finding, the state audit report that we've discussed from which you've been finely seeing how many cases have fallen off due to antiquity, because of the failure of the store, because of the fact or error in the process, then suddenly you come up with devastating results and at the same time those who have acquired such property even say so, so you gentlemen see we're a rich enough social community that we won't charge a tax from you, and even if we were, not only rich enough, but also a rich social and state community that we don't need that money, with the principle of justice, social justice should not release them from paying those tax obligations because anyone who acquires any property has to pay tax to the social community, starting with a fundamental constitutional principle that everyone contributes to the financing of public costs relative to their own opportunities and their... And for this reason, we from the SDP Club of Representatives not only propose this Bill proposal but we support its need for its adoption as we will support all other legal solutions from criminal legal to criminal legal provisions which will be aimed at making all those who have committed or have a fundamental suspicion that they have committed any criminal acts in the acquisition of property and criminal offences, or have committed criminal offences in the acquisition of property through conversion and privatisation or in economic business at the expense of the social and state community to be prosecuted and, as appropriate, in accordance with the law and on the basis of the law of a valid procedure of punishment and provision as we also believe that no one is to punish who is in conversion and privatisation... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] participated in compliance with the laws in an appropriate manner in accordance with the law came to the acquisition of that property. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's impossible for someone to acquire an asset for example, among other things, by not putting something into conversion, by declaring their property, using it for a few years, and then we say they won't even pay the income tax they're making on that basis. Well, there's really nothing there, maybe just here with us, and that's why I agree with my colleagues that there's a big difference between the SDP Club and the SDP as a Social Democratic Party in relation to HDZ and the HDZ Representatives Club because it is a line of divisions between us regarding our approach, a different approach to the formation of the social and state union and of course people's relationships with work and relationships that people need to live on and on the basis of their legitimate and legitimately acquired assets that they put into the economic and social system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14883	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14884	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a law came about with the knowledge of the facts that took place in the privatisation process. The expectations of the audit were far higher and they did not come true. The State Audit Office has established actions which have the characteristics of criminal offences in the audit carried out, also identified persons suspected of having committed those acts. In their jurisdiction, only the submission of applications to the competent state attorney's office which has also been made. Reports were filed against 1028 persons until 1.6.2002. Of course that number was increased after the latest State Office report. After that, jurisdiction shall be transferred to the judicial authority. According to the State Attorney's Office's report, applications relating to 308 persons have been rejected. There are 281 people accused. For lawyers, it's quite clear information, i.e. completely clear. Only 85 convictions have been passed, 81 of which are convictions. Of course, the Croatian public is not and cannot be satisfied with the final result of the audit process, including sanctioning the perpetrators. A large number of applications have been rejected due to the expiry of the limitation period and according to the state of affairs, the perpetrators of these criminal actions will remain unpunished and will retain all the benefits they have acquired through privatisation and that is the most painful. In its report, the State Attorney's Office finds that all audits of identified irregularities and illegalities do not always have the characteristics of criminal offences, and if so, it is quite certain that only through criminal proceedings cannot achieve the objectives set out in correcting illegality in the processes of conversion and privatisation. I believe that all of us are meant in any but fair way to sanction the perpetrators of the evil committed in the privatisation and not to let anyone get away with the hand of justice. The applicant considers that this proposal contains a way of achieving the audit objective. However, since the present proposal would tax property acquired from a source without a valid legal basis, and in particular property acquired by actions that have characteristics of criminal activity or acquired by legal transactions contrary to the principles of legal order, coercion and public morality would become legitimate in that way. Legalisation, even parts of illegally acquired assets, is not the goal of revising conversion and privatisation. This would be an additional disappointment to all those who lost their jobs in the process without income and material security not only for individuals but also for entire families. All those who have worked not only for their entire working life but have often and commonly given up part of their salary for investments within companies to create conditions for the opening of new jobs where they looked at their children. Their dream didn't come true. They came from somewhere unknown people, became the owners of what until yesterday was his second home, and this home, apparently under new management and new business policy, began to collapse until the very disappearance. With the collapse of businesses, hundreds of thousands of lives of those who should now expect satisfaction that the main culprit of their wealth disaster would pay some to the state as a single tax while continuing to enjoy the country’s blessing in the rest. We can't expect that kind of understanding, let alone get it. From what is exposed, there is no way in which we represent the position of stopping at the conclusion that illegalities and immorality have been committed but nothing can be done about it anymore. It's simply unacceptable. As a lawyer, I'm perfectly clear on what it means to be out of date. This means that there is no criminal liability, but neither in the process of confiscation of illegally acquired assets. In that part, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is entirely unfounded when it says that illegally acquired property should be taken away in criminal and criminal proceedings. Without criminal and criminal proceedings, there is no confiscation of the property illegally acquired. It should be, but it should not be, because part of it is obsolete, and a good part of it awaits because as the State's Attorney's Office says, the proceedings take a long time, among other things, because of the lack of qualified experts who are willing to artificialise in economic matters. I think that's where there's a very serious problem. Based on the findings of the State Audit Office, experts must investigate and find ways and paths of the outflow of capital that has moved into private pockets. That capital has to go back to where it was taken and all of it. It is the only just solution, and we must strive not only to but also to achieve it. The past government failed and was punished in the elections along with my party. The electoral body did not find any compelling reasons to forgive her nor in the fact that she needed to correct other people’s sins nor in the fact that by reducing the obstacles, someone else had shortened the limitation deadlines or in the fact that it had previously been necessary to carry out an audit and then to leave the cases to a court that had already had a million and a half unsolved cases. The people wanted justice but didn't get it. He still wants it and therefore now the task of this authority that needs and works to prove that different from the one that allowed catastrophic privatisation, supported and kept the perpetrators hidden. Discussing a State Audit report on the audits carried out, and I have proven how it supported it because, as early as 1996, legal authorities from certain counties were required to make a review of privatisation, to undo what is illegal and immoral, and to punish perpetrators. Nothing was done that year in 1996. This task is somewhat easier for the current government than for the previous because it corrects its own mistakes. There were requests for an audit back in 96 years, but there was no political will to stop it with all its fatal consequences, and especially not to revise it. The intention and vision of the fair end of this sad episode of Croatian history should be contained in the opinion of the Government of Croatia on the proposal for this law, but unfortunately there is no such thing. It opposes the adoption of this Bill's proposal, does not deny that illegal acquisition of property has occurred, but says that the property can be taken away in criminal and criminal proceedings although it knows that there will be neither criminal nor criminal proceedings against the vast majority of the enriched because it has become obsolete or very soon to take place. What is the message to the citizens of this opinion? It reads like this. We oppose the law of property acquired from a source without a valid legal basis, property acquired by actions which have the characteristics of a criminal offence or those acquired by legal transactions which are contrary to the principles of legal order, coercion and public morality. By paying a one-time tax, but we don't want to return that property back to where it was taken from, and we want to leave it to those who illegally acquired it. And that's why we suggest that this bill be rejected. It's a message that comes from the government's opinion. Such a message is inadmissible. This means supporting everything that has happened, it means continuing to protect those who have done all this evil, it means closing their eyes to the fact that some lives have defended their country while others have taken everything they could and have done under the password of their own greatness. Is that what this government wants to tell its citizens? If he doesn't want to, and I believe he doesn't want to, then this item of the agenda can't and must not end just by refusing this bill. It must end with a conclusion that would oblige the government to find ways and mechanisms to confiscate illegally acquired assets in the process of conversion and privatisation. The assumption of such a conclusion is the existence of an honest political will to come to a fair solution, and if such an honest will exists, it will show us the vote, and I'm afraid after the vote, we will only agree with our former colleague Royce who once claimed that it all seems to be about who made the bail, jamio.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14885	Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14886	It's an incorrect quote from an esteemed colleague, and now they wouldn't have figured it out if it were an opinion, so I'm going to quote. So, I quote, my colleague said, "The past government has been concealing the perpetrators of the crimes committed in the conversion and privatisation." It's just not true. Because no government, and especially not in the same way as the example you've set, cannot, especially in that way, conceal the committing of crimes. At the very end of the line, it also implies committing a crime. So it's not about any cover-up of crime, it's about something else entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14887	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14888	So his colleague committed a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 209(2), because he tried to correct the accuracy with accuracy. I was on the way and I explained that last time I pointed out and showed...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14889	My colleague, you're correcting an incorrect assumption, it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure because you've made it very clear and precise, you've claimed that she's passed power, alluding to that authority by concealing the perpetrators of the crimes. A fellow representative was correcting your allegations by claiming to be incorrect. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14890	Well, inaccuracy corrects the exact quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14891	You can't do that, I'm sorry. That is an incorrect allegation, but you have reported for breach of the Rules of Procedure, and the breach of the Rules of Procedure is something different from correcting an incorrect assumption. You know that very well as a lawyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14892	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14893	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14894	And now you've taken my time, sir...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14895	I did, but because I owed you, I owed you because you started to hurt the Rules of Procedure, and it's not about that. It's obviously not about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14896	Well, Mr. President, but it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure if you get...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14897	No, that's correcting an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14898	It's the abuse of the institute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14899	I'm not going in, I'm not allowed in, but you've made one claim. Your representative challenged your one fact-finding claim as incorrect. That's it. I'd like to ask the Proposer, the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14900	Thank you, Mr. President. Now that the debates are over in the clubs, I'd like to look back at some of the debates. I think it's symptomatic that a representative of the HDZ Club has qualified the law as political demagogy. In fact, this is about two concepts of how we view the consequences of conversion and privatisation because political demagogy is not an effort to at least partially resolve immoral and illegal actions in conversion and privatisation, and for which our public is also rightly bitter and sensitive. Yes, he is, my colleague. And that's at least our debt to those 320 thousand workers who lost their jobs in the process. Furthermore, a representative of the HDZ Club wonders why the SDP wants to legalise illegally acquired property and in whose interest is it? This isn't about legalizing illegally acquired assets, this property is actually legalized in a way that courts and did not sanction illegal acts and they went out of date. However, I can also ask why HDZ did so because it has actually legalized these proceedings in a way that has changed the Penal Code in a section relating to economic crime, through the reduction of limitation, failure or unquality of supervision of conversion and privatisation, and definitely antiquated before, definitely outdated before prosecution. It was also done through the Law on Conversion and Privatisation because one major part of the works that were established in the revision process that were not in accordance with the law were not sanctioned at all. So I'll say what the works are. For example, the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation says that the consent to a solution to conversion should be passed within 60 days. It shall not impose sanctions if it is not, if that solution has not been reached within that time limit. It shall not impose sanctions unless the purchase contracts have been broken up in a timely manner and the right to manage and any rights arising from the management rights has been applied. It is also not clear that the Fund established the final value of the undertakings because, for example, the applied value of the companies in the dossier is not visible the reasons for the change, i.e. it is not visible to which the assets are related to the changes. Because only the total value has changed, not the value per item. That's why there are no sanctions for those who did so in the Fund. The acquirer, if the acquirer has not delivered to the Fund a copy of the transfer agreement if it has done so, the transfer of shares and the law says that there are also no sanctions. If the transfer of shares contracts do not contain all the elements provided for in the provisions of the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises, there are also no sanctions. If the assessment was carried out with a condition on one date, and it often seemed. For example, on 31 December 92, and a confirmation of the regularity and reality of the balance sheet on the basis of which the assessment is carried out has a date of 31 December 91st, there is no sanction. If the assets are not included in the company value assessment, there is no sanctions and the assets were managed and often sold for 10 years. If the recapitalisation is not carried out in accordance with the conversion programme, there are no sanctions, if the development programme does not contain a feasibility assessment and the financial aspects of the business have no sanctions. If the decision to sell shares from the portfolio of the fund has not been made by the competent authority, the law shall not impose any sanctions. If the acquirer of the outstanding shares did not pay off the acquired shares within 6 months, and managed, and had the right to manage and had the right to pay the dividend on such unpaid shares, he did not even have to pay back that dividend. In the case of the sale of shares if no payment insurance instruments were agreed or replaced, before I said the bank's guarantee was replaced by a stock exchange, there is no sanction for people who have acted in such a way. You're still saying it's a negative message to investors, no, because this Law does not apply to companies, this Law refers to individuals who illegally and illegally acquired property in conversion and privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14901	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14902	Mr. President, I'm going to quote again so there won't be any opinions on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The esteemed colleague literally said: "HDZ The Croatian Democratic Union has legalised the perpetrators of criminal acts by amending the Penal Code". It's simply not true, I can come back to those gentlemen again you've had four years, and that's the mandate behind this HDZ you're talking about then we can all say that the coalition government has also been even worse legalized by those same perpetrators of criminal acts if we talk about the statute of limitations as time or time goes by then it's... yours so I'd dare say four times bigger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14903	Honorable MPs of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14904	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, with only a few sentences. It's not the SDP. It's somewhere else. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, so with a few sentences, I would like to take part in the debate on this subject regardless of what is being held without a camera, regardless of what is being held with a small number of representatives present and, in fact, a small number of my truly surprising club representatives who participated in this debate. In fact, I'm going to say what we said before 2000, and we've been talking for the past four years when we've been in power, and we're talking today and the SDP has remained principled. And this is that the Law on Conversion and Privatisation, which was passed during the HDZ government period in the 1990s, is essentially an immoral law. And most of the Croatian public agreed that it was an immoral law that allowed legal robbery of social values, businesses, now you colleagues can laugh, you can laugh out loud as far as I'm concerned, but that Law was immoral. Unfortunately, in that period, unfortunately neither during the coalition government there was a political will to try in how much fair way to sanction that robbery, but when you say that SDP is four times more virtually responsible or more guilty of doing nothing, you of course can think of it as not... right but since you kept saying that you would know a much better way to solve things in this country, I expected that now that you came to power you would have political will to solve these cases in any way, regardless of what most of these cases went into obsolescence. That's what it is, your political will, today you have the opportunity to express that political will. I am personally very sorry that in many things you changed your mind and that you were not principled until the end and on these very things you remain principled according to what you led to politics until 2000. As Parliament's representative, it may be the most disturbing, it hurts not only today but yesterday that we simply come to the wall and say we can't do anything, the papal cat, as counterpart Lalić said, but also nothing at all, we are calling for constitutional values, this and that, and in fact we are wondering how and what the Croatian public thinks about it, and I just want to remind you that two years ago, at the end of 2002, when this same debate on this same law was in this House, then polls showed that 86% of Croatian citizens supported such a bill on one-time property tax, 86% of citizens, personally I am deeply convinced that you are doing this poll today so that 86% of the citizens of this country were asking whether it was like this when it came to be the biggest value heist that happened in the 1990s during HDZ authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14905	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14906	A respected colleague said and it was deceded that I said the SDP was four times more guilty, so in that context, I did not say SDP but the coalition government. It's not the same thing it's... I would also correct two false allegations that we are claiming and that someone has claimed that there is nothing in this matter to be done, it is wrong, it can be done but not in this way in terms of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14907	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14908	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to quote first a colleague who said "the immoral law that allowed the robbery", I guess it has happened several times, but I remember your pre-election promise for 2003 so for January elections in 2003 it was the biggest pre-election promise of your coalition, especially, pardoned in 2000, the revision of the conversion...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14909	The colleagues you're correcting are incorrect?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14910	It is not true that they were principled because they were 4 years old, they needed what they promised the Croatian people to do, to close all those who had made the robbery of the centuries amongst them would find your colleagues from the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14911	Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic. Dear Representative Anton Perusko here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14912	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The transformation and privatisation in the Republic of Croatia is after the sacrifices our defenders made whether in the Homeland War or not they can compare themselves to anything. Left far the hardest marks in the Croatian society's tissue, that is certainly and unequivocally. The process carried out in Croatia under the law passed by the first HDZ government has caused enormous damage to our citizens and the economy in all segments of Croatian society. Let me remind you that in addition to this, the conversion and privatisation took place at an inappropriate time, during the time of the Homeland War, when one of Croatia was defended, and the others were pillaged by law by Croatia, by law, as an expression of a certain political will. In my view, it is good that during the former coalition government, the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatization has been adopted which, among other things, has been extended to the revision of all transactions related to the conversion and privatisation of former social and state capital. A few months ago, we had on the agenda in this house, among other things, a report on the work of the State Audit Office. Also, a report on the revision of the process of conversion and privatisation of former social and state capital. To remind ourselves of this report, a colleague of Zgrebec provided detailed information, so I will not be bothered by the presentation of these data, but I will generally say that 2911 legal persons were included in the audit where the conversion and privatisation took place over the past 10 years and which was the general assessment and conclusion of the State Audit Office. That none of the fundamental objectives of conversion and privatisation have been achieved. First, the reduced value of social capital. Second, about 400,000 workers lost their jobs. Third, about 30 companies have opened bankruptcy proceedings. And fourthly, about 59% of companies have not achieved their development program. These are the findings of the state audits that were established in that report. Here are our results of the conversion and privatisation that the national treasures took away from those who created them and assigned them to politically similar tycoons. The only thing that was created was, unfortunately, that they were politically... Rich. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] In the light of the single property tax bill proposed by my party in the parliamentary procedure, which we are discussing at this late hour and in front of a small number of those present, a broad range of actions that have been committed abuses and other illegalities in conversion and privatisation, and I will not repeat them here for rationality and use of time. The State Attorney's Office finds that the irregularities found are always and do not have the mark of a criminal offence and that, of course, all irregularities cannot be corrected through criminal proceedings, but if we take into account the ineffectiveness of the judiciary, then it is clear that many culprits will never be responsible for their actions, but their wealth will unfortunately remain. For this reason, we have referred to the parliamentary procedure of the motion to amend the Penal Code that I remind you 10 days ago and we have proposed that the limitation period be extended, but, as we know by the will of the majority in this House, our proposal to amend the Penal Code has not passed, there is no extension of the limitation period, there is no passing the introduction of a one-time tax on illegally acquired property, which can then be passed here at all. As long as it's all irregular, it's possible to correct it, nothing more normal, and to say, our citizens expect it from us, but at least to introduce a one-time tax on acquired property, because the least we can say here is that the taxpayers have been cheated. And what it means to fool the tax collectors, or the state, for example, in America, is that I don't make unnecessary comparisons. We all know it, which means in America, for example, tricking a tax collector. Indeed the least you can do is to make various new tycoons pay at least a property tax which is easy to prove. In particular, the adoption of such a law is the obligation of us MPs and that the revenues achieved under this law be the revenues of the state budget intended to encourage development and employment and that then part of those around 400,000 jobs of workers who have lost their jobs find jobs and security. On these remarks made in the debate, I think that there is a lot of argument between my colleague Zgrebec, my colleague Arlović, and my colleague Ljubica Lalić, as well as her friend, Lalić, have reasoned that the government and some of the thinking are not standing and that this is simply not about interference in the judiciary, but this is about whether there is a political will for this law to be passed or not. I am convinced after these discussions that are being held here tonight, that the club of the majority parties will also change their minds, which would be good and that this law will be passed, and if it isn't passed, you know, and we all need to know that our citizens expect it from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14913	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14914	I'd like to correct the inaccuracies that are often repeated. If you, Mr. Representative, think they were politically alike in the transformation of HDZ, then I'm telling you you're wrong. Just remember the farce we had with the 200 richest families. Let us remember the law which, for no time at all, so your rule of coalition has not changed in any article, so... with the 200 richest family farce,...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14915	My colleague Rebić, who are you correcting incorrectly?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14916	It is incorrect that they were similar to the robbery in the conversion of HDZ. It is true that similar were communist directors who led large companies such as Viktor Lenac, etc. It's a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14917	Replica. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14918	Mr. President, the violation of Article 204 was because my colleague was not correcting my incorrect claim. After all, I didn't say they were politically similar HDZ, I just said that they got rich politically similar tycoons, look at the phonogram. And I didn't say HDZ or SDP. As far as the communist directors are concerned, look around you, most of them are among you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14919	You need to look at a clear phonogram. What do we do? Replica, respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14920	Your Honor, Mr. President, here's the simplest moment I can't go through in person without replicating some of the things that they want to get through here. I agree with the distinguished colleague and Mr. MP who said, in these 8,9 years, the creation of the Croatian state that everything happened, and those who didn't want it and those who were leaving the assembly in decisive moments, and those who were getting for creating the Croatian state bullet and those who were getting and getting the bullet and doing so in tens. I agree with you. It's a big spot. But we have to be consistent and say that social property didn't then go into state property and social property was taken by those who found themselves as great directors, it's a communist chamber. My colleague, you all know that very well. So, at that point, some of them were getting shot, that's true, but some property, and that's who got it. And 90% that's true. I don't educate anyone God save, but for the sake of truth, for the sake of public happiness is now not transmitted, it's true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14921	Replica reply, Honored Representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14922	I'm not sure I can answer anything too much in the replica. Actually, my colleague, he and I agree in 99% of the allegations, and that's my answer to his replica. That's a fact. Those are the facts I've been making. The only thing that doesn't stand is that it wasn't turned into state property because it was turned into state property by law and in everything else we agree and that would be my answer to your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14923	Thank you very much. Representative of the Proposer, Honored Representative Dragica Zgrebec, your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14924	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, at the end of this debate, I'd like to comment on this second part of the debate with a few more sentences after the club's presentation. The fact is that the Penal Code was changed in 1996 in a larger extent, that certain crimes in the area of economic crime were then deleted and that the reduced deadlines were obsolete. Thus, such a amended law has been in force for more than four years since the coming of the coalition government, since 1996 and has been amended in early 2001. However, the process of conversion and privatisation itself took place in the early 1990s, and the fact is that the largest number of social enterprises in which the conversion was conducted and later in the second procedure, the privatisation step made between 1992 and 1993, thus seven to eight years. We can guess why the Law on the Conversion of Privatisation for a number of criminal offences is not prescribed. I said here it's also the legalization of certain illegal activities in privatisation. We can discuss this in different ways and look at it in different ways but if the law determines certain actions that must be carried out under a certain procedure and if it does not, they do not prescribe any punishment for what it is then but legalisation. This indicates precisely those who are in such a procedure to break such a law because there is no sanction behind it. The SDP's pre-election promise was to revise conversion and privatisation. We have come to the conclusion that under the existing Law on Conversion and Privatisation, which also had certain provisions on the control of the process of conversion and privatisation but did not take place. We have been of the opinion that a special law should be passed which will specify in detail how this revision will be carried out. Such a SDP proposal was held in parliament in 1999, or 1998, 1998. So, it wasn't just a pre-election promise before the 2000 election, it was our legally formed proposal in 1998, a colleague. The SDP is like all Croatian parties a democratic party and if some parties shut people down then they would not be democratic and it is not possible in democratic systems. We hope that we all agree that we are sitting here in parliament and that we are not sitting in parliament to respect the trinity of the government in Croatia, that no party or parliament or government can either shut anyone down or punish anyone. I thank, in fact, everyone who took part in this debate. I thank those who have supported this bill. After such discussions, I can conclude that, after more than a decade of conversion and privatisation in Croatia, after the State Office for Auditing through the current audit procedure, which audited 83% of the underlying capital of the companies involved in the conversion and privatisation process, has seen or established a series of illegalities and irregularities that I still have no political will to have such proceedings and such individuals punished and adequate or adequate penalties for such immoral and illegal property acquired. Once again, thank you to all who will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14925	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Proposal for a Single Property Tax Act, first reading, Bill No. 82, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals made by the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: no single property tax bill proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club is adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the Working Body Reports. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 74 votes in favour, 38 against and 6 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14928	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I hope this bill of law doesn't cause too much controversy, I'll start by saying it. What is now proposed is all the governments so far in order, so from the first one, through the second one, the coalition of our last and these now that doesn't do anything. And why else when we all say we all agree that we should do, so I ask you to actually consider this case that is proposed here to change and supplement and to adopt it either in this form as we propose it on behalf of the SDP Club either in another form but to do something about a very significant and not a large category of our citizens, which is therefore primarily people who spend their working lives in the field of science, in the area of educational and pedagogical work and in the largest work, actually about 80% and more in various cultural areas of literature, composers, architects, sculptors, etc., etc. Thus, by decision of the Croatian Parliament since 1993 and the Law on the granting of permanent cash compensations to the responsible persons, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also decided in 1993 on criteria for the granting of permanent cash compensation. And by virtue of these two regulations, the administrative commission of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regularly concluded and approved certain amounts and which had not changed since 1 July 1994 and were then very regrettable. They were actually 300 kunas for the first category of such persons, for the second category of hundreds, up to 200 kuna and for exceptional cases up to 5 hundred kuna. When I said that it was somehow a burden of all our responsibilities together and I think independently of the position we are currently in, then I had in mind the following. We have recently, and therefore we can also in some way thank both governments, and this previous and earlier one, have made some serious shifts, positive shifts in the social position of these people. So, I say, in this context, I think of both science and education, because it is the most consisting of the institution of independent artists in which the state assumes on itself the payment of pension, social, health, etc. for certain categories that are being audited and where therefore one innovation is positive. But we have also done so in the last very much in this period, so that we have freed the copyright fees of 20% as early as 40% plus 25% on the basis of artistic creation, that we have preserved the institution so that mandatory contributions are not required to be paid by artists etc., and to their fees, and that therefore the entire Corps is quite well affected except in this one unfortunate number of cases in which the highest artists, artists, cultural workers and scientists are in some way, the most prominent creations very often come into the impossible situation that they cannot achieve the basic, elemental conditions for life, which in some way makes it uncomfortable for each individual to discuss this issue regardless of party membership, whether it is a matter of the Assembly committee or whether it is a matter of the ministry or is simply about representation clubs. That's why I'm asking you to do something here. I will only warn of two characteristic cases that may make this area more clear to many who are not completely clear. One of our greatest art artists who acquired fame in Croatia and then went to work in Germany and there for a time had to say professional status. He came here as an artist in the situation of ultimately living on welfare in Germany. He wants to go back, we don't have any way to regulate, I mean his elementary, to say so existence, because there's no basis to do except for this, so he doesn't have a chance here for a more serious pension, so maybe there's a guilt of his own, but please, these are the artists he didn't realize, he didn't exercise any rights. And so, one of the great names that we would otherwise be proud of, and we are known when to be called into the world on it, we cannot resuscitate in this elemental, existential need of it. Another case is the case of a famous and very, very famous opera singer. Without naming names, I hope you understand that it is not pleasant to hear and feel by example, enough to say the following. So it was much better for that artist of ours to take 70% of her husband's pension from no function at all, and so that was one pension, let's say one engineer, let's say in the category of upper middle class. So we have really a number of cases that deserve to be sort of solved and that number isn't big. This is in all the categories that are mentioned it is about 800 tins of such cases that are therefore shared on these unfortunate categories, however, the meaning of this bill was not to in some way capture the arms of which it will not be able to rely on already some existing practice. It is in the context of existing practice that we find a way to fix this situation. And this was found in a way that the regulation of the amount of these fees is linked to the average salary and that, for once a year, it is valorised and that for the highest category it is 25% of the average salary and you see in this bill how it is further, it is reduced depending on the category. And what actually leads to the total cost of this entire fund moving instead of $4 million that is now approved somewhere at 8 million. And that means that the compensation for those extraordinary people who were now at the peak of 5 hundred kuna would be about 1000 kuna, which is 25% of the average salary. I, of course, have a negative opinion of the government. All right. Make it a negative opinion if it's going to work out otherwise. But it's really time for us to go over some of our own to say so... who will be the proposer of this or that law, to do something about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I cannot accept an argument from the Government that does not give a way to resolve this but at the same time the following arguments disproves this bill and says that it is a seal mark of monetary compensation in that they are granted to persons as a recognition for their contribution in the field of scientific, cultural and other social activities and therefore their height is not relevant in the sense that it should be aligned with the average, with the average monthly salary of employees in the Republic of Croatia. Also, the amount of compensation should not be linked to the amount of the average pension that was not taken into account in the bill, nor should it be said of the average pension but of the average salary. Why? Well, that's the thing, I mean our will to compare it to this or that which provides one, not fixed, but one to say a variable factor that ensures some kind of minimal justice and minimum security that in these exceptional categories they can therefore follow in their pensions and plus, so through their compensation that they can secure life. It is not a recognition unfortunately for exceptional contributions, it is actually a recognition to ensure that such a decent, decent pension and a decent life at the age of no longer being created and no longer being earned. In this regard, I ask that we take into account this situation so that we can make a clear statement in favour of such a bill if a proposal came from the Government which would in principle satisfy this situation in a similar way would be no reason for the SDP Club to disagree. However, from the Government, we only get a refusal in relation to the possibility of adopting such a law or amending and supplementing the law but not a solution. While that solution is gone, I invite you to accept this proposal by amending and supplementing the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14929	Thank you. Do the committee's rapporteurs want a word? No, I don't. A representative of the government? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Jagoda Majska-Martincevic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14930	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In 1993, therefore, 11 years ago. It should be remembered, it was wartime, wages, and especially those artists, in all activities, were very low and inflation galloping. Under such conditions and the law and the aforementioned decision of the then Government of the Republic of Croatia were possible instruments which tried at least somewhat to improve the material situation of the responsible persons. However, very quickly the practice of life changed somewhat the original idea, so the circle of the merits as it was intended to extend and necessarily change those criteria because they became more valid from the point of view of social and less cultural, artistic or general social evaluation. In the categories for the award of fixed cash compensation, there were drama, opera or ball champions of prominent conductors and directors, painters, writers and other members of scientific, educational and artistic activities, and others who also participated and contributed to their work of the mentioned activities but could hardly be classified in the classification of deserving or extremely deserving persons. Because everyone who has spent their working life in this and other activities doing it in a committed and honorable way is well deserved, but the law here had other intensities. However, as the circumstances had already been said, it was such that almost no one who applied refused. The pensions were small, much less than they are today even though today they are not satisfactory and the number of permanent beneficiaries of compensation by 1 January this year amounted to 803 and 862 users, respectively, including those who use family compensation so instead of the deceased user of the individual. New potential users continue to appear, and most of them are from a group of theatre and music activities. Along with drama, opera and ballet champions, prominent composers, conductors or soloists there are numerous members of various ensembles, orchestras, choirs, ballets and so on. They all have small pensions, and everyone thinks they can appeal to the criteria or the law that was passed 11 years ago, and whose amendment and supplementation we are discussing here today. Of course the SDP's intensity is basically good intentions. Improve the material position of users of this fee. The proposed proposal, however, does not go into the very essence of the issue of the existing law that needs to be changed, but in a different way rather than taking into account the current possibilities of the state, no matter how small the amount that should now be compensated is calculated. It is primarily that it is necessary to distinguish whether the constant cash compensation granted by the State to responsible persons is a social category in which, over time, it is necessary to convert or indeed some recognition for merits, for contribution in the field of scientific, cultural or other social activities. If we agree that it is a value of the contribution, then it is a kind of reward that should not be harmonised with neither the average salary nor the average pension. She's kind of a confession, and as such she's a special category. If we are to discuss compensation as a social measure, then we would have to put ourselves in a strange position to make a smaller pension for those who have a higher pension, and to those with smaller pensions, which would lead to a complete denial of the concept of merit on which the existing Law and the Proposal for Amendments and Supplements are based. The law therefore needs to be changed, but also with it, primarily, by criteria which should make it much clearer to lay down provisions for conditions under which there is even a right to a constant payment. This, of course, must not mean the adjudication of those who, let's say, are an open number of groups of employees who, in view of small pensions, also expect this compensation, even though it does not belong to the category of conditionally credited ones, but that means that the law must change from the ground to determine its characterization, its function, and in fact the essence of which it exists. Of course, it is very delicate to discuss such a problem in today’s even easy material conditions, especially those in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia was found to inherit the debts of the former government. In addition, the question could also be asked why the former Government has not taken steps and proposed these amendments and additions to the Law on the granting of permanent cash compensation to the persons responsible in its term of office for 4 years but does so now and proposes these changes as well as a series of other almost demagogues in the first 6 months of our new Government's term. However, in order not to make everything else a dead letter on paper, this Government is already working on amendments to the Decision on criteria for granting and suspending the permanent compensation of the creditor. In the meantime, so far the amounts have changed, so no one will get 100, and no more 200 kunas of compensation. The lowest limit to the new Decision on criteria will be 300 kuna. In the second category, it will be 500 kuna while the highest exceptional category will be 700 kuna for all winners of the highest state recognition of the Vladimir Nazor Prize for Lifetime Work. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community does not accept the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law on the granting of permanent cash compensations to the due persons but will support the Government which will make amendments to the criteria, because they are an essential prerequisite for the final launch of the new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14931	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14932	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the fact is that this, this bill of law, it comes down to being a social one. However, the question must be asked why did such a social welfare occur in the first place? If we haven't coordinated anything for years and we know that these monetary benefits are so funny, and in this case I have to say they're funny because if it's 100 kunas a month, then it's really funny, and especially if we know who these people are, and it's clear to me and everyone, it's not really a value of their contribution that they've made as cultural workers in any cultural thing I know directors, musicians, artists, in any way, their contribution to this country and our culture, it's not in any way worth their contribution, their contribution, but it's funny that to the same people who invested their work in, in culture, in the art of this country that we're worth 100 and 200 kuna. It's really funny, it's pathetic and sad, and if that's what their retirement that's really small needs to be fixed then in any case, it's also social law and it's a social that needs to fix their material position. I also agree with the HDZ proposal that the government draw up a new bill. But I ask when it's going to be because if it's going to be a year or if it's going to be two years from now, or if it's going to be two years from now, or if it's going to be two years from now, or if I don't know when the question is, does it make sense to postpone this kind of solution? I propose on behalf of this amendment, so the government will come with another proposal in the meantime. Then we will adopt that proposal that we believe will be of quality, I believe that then the Government will adopt all these contributions that these prominent citizens have made to Croatia, and then we will believe both opposition and by ruling to adopt this proposal that the Government will deliver to us. But we don't have a government proposal and we don't even know when it will be and that's why the HNS and PGS Club will support this bill anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14933	Thank you. No more reports. Does Honorable Representative Antun Vujic want on behalf of the promoter?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14934	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, since everything has been said and everyone could weigh arguments, I didn't mean to use this pay phone, but there at the table, but obviously the microphones don't work in the benches. So this way, we are not challenged by the measure of need for this, and we are informed not by the government's representatives but by one parliamentary representative that the government is about to prepare something. This really is an interesting contribution to our relationship between the executive and the legislative authority, but here's the good communication we have. And we have good practices, so we don't look at this in the category and social order so I say to the category that it should and therefore exist among other things because in the description of the reason why it is given into consideration and the social situation but therefore in the category of excellence. So those who are so good that they already have all the rewards and so on will confirm it once again, and those who are cases like these are just two, they won't be able to do it. It is not fair and it is not the meaning of this proposal that we can implement directly without a major legislative change and without big ones, so to speak, the debate, and at the same time at the moment, on the current interest of emergency cases of which I have described 2, and I could describe them much, much more. So, I think that if we really weigh, these arguments that it won't be difficult for us to decide to do something right now, which is not contrary to the interests of the permanent development of the material base of existence of our cultural, scientific and other creators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14935	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the granting of permanent cash compensations to the credited persons, first reading, Bill No 83, the debate is closed. In accordance with the contributions of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the granting of permanent cash compensation to the responsible persons, proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club, for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the Work Body Reports, is not accepted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 74 votes in favour, 46 against and 2 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14938	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on County, City and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia is actually based on a fundamental assumption that the settlements Gornji and Donji Babin stream from the municipality of Plitvice Lakes are attached to the municipality of Vrhovina. The reasons for this are large and above all the fact that the settlements Gornji and Donji Babin stream are within the Municipality of Vrhovina, which are unfortunately within the structure as we have regulated, the municipality of Plitvice Lakes and are practically more than 29 km away from the centre of Plitvice Lakes, which certainly causes different difficulties and costs to the inhabitants of Babin Gornji and the Lower Stream and that in such a situation they need to reach a whole series of issues. The second thing that is very important, therefore, is that this proposal for a law is accepted to continue to resolve health, geodetic, land-based library, administrative, traffic and all other issues, residents of the Upper and Lower Babies stream, in the Municipality of Vrhovina, not in their municipality of Plitvice Lakes. Therefore, they are only formally part of the municipality, and they actually perform both geographical and real and life with residents of the Municipality of Vrhovina. Third, all the legal requirements laid down in Article 30 have been met. Laws on districts, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia to initiate the accession procedure, i.e. the first separation of these two settlements from the Plitvice Lakes municipality and their accession to the Babin stream. As early as February 2002, the inhabitants of the two settlements launched the procedure and submitted their signatures to the municipality of Plitvice Lakes and to the municipality of Vrhnik. That's their wish she accepted even more... The Lika-Senj County Assembly, which gave a positive opinion that the Lower Babin stream and Gornji Babin stream should be separated from the Plitvice Lakes municipality and attached to the Municipality of Vrhovina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, there is no doubt about this issue or dispute by the Municipality of Vrhovina, which accepts at its session that, following the request, these two settlements are attached to the municipality council unanimously. The Plitvice Lakes municipality itself does not object. However, they conclude, I will quote: "The Plitvice Lakes municipality's headship supports this initiative and the desire for the population of the village of Gornji and Lower Baba stream to separate itself from the municipality of Plitvice Lakes and attaches it to the municipality of Vrhovina." Therefore, all entities that are relevant in the decision-making process include the funds needed to finance this activity are in fact insured and are all said to be respected in a procedural sense. We only have a proposal from the government that actually doesn't support the bill. And now it's very interesting on the one hand, not on the other hand, that all of this is that the will of the citizens has been fulfilled, that the will of one city, or municipal council, of the second municipal council, of the County Assembly has been fulfilled. But in fact, from another fact that the Government itself says, I quote, "The government points out that the initiative in question will be included in the draft bill on amendments and additions to the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, which is planning to refer to further parliamentary procedure as part of the reform of local self-government." Now, you see, therefore, if the Government proposes a law then it will be legal, and if the MPs propose it will not be legal, although the Government says in its opinion that all the legal requirements have been met, that the whole legislative process of changing the area is being implemented, and there is evidence that the citizens' statement has been carried out in accordance with the legal provisions. Therefore, everything is fulfilled that it can, only the government says, we will go with its bill. The question arises when will this bill come? The second issue, which is also important, is the fact that there should be regular elections soon, and given that after the adoption of the law on the addition of certain places, changes should also be provided in the electoral lists, in a whole series of activities related to local elections and in such a situation, we are of the opinion that this time we should not adhere to the opinions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in non-compliance with this law, but to invite all colleagues, both majority and opposition parties to support the adoption of this law. Because, in fact, it will satisfy the will of the people and not only of the inhabitants of Gornji and Lower Babia stream to separate themselves from the municipality of Plitvice Lakes and join the municipality of Vrhovina but also of their citizens, i.e. their representatives in the Municipality of Vrhovina, i.e. in the municipality of Plitvice Lakes and Ličko-Senj County which support this separation and do not object to these two settlements being joined to the municipality of Vrhovina and to ensure both conditions and formal and real for the easier and quality life of citizens of these two settlements in the municipality of Vrhovina. Thank you very much. We are confident that you will support the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-30-0.u14939	Thank you very much. Since there are no committee rapporteurs or other agents, I conclude the debate. My colleagues and fellow MPs, tomorrow at 9:30 is the continuation of the session with a joint discussion of the proposal for a Law on the State Fund for Temporary Child Maintenance, the proposing representative of Đurđa Adlesic and the identical name of the SDP Representatives' Club proposal, number 42. After the discussion of the two laws, there will be a debate on, a follow-up of the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2003. No debate can be held on the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War where it is proposed by the club of representatives of the HSP because it has no opinion of the relevant committees or government. Until those opinions arrive, the debate will move. These further reports then go on the work of the National Foundation for Science, and the report on the jobs and resources spent on the census, the annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency, would be exhausted on Friday, where it comes immediately after the vote on the legal aspects of the qualifications of the indictments. With this, we absorb the agenda of the 7th session. Thank you very much. Tomorrow at 9:30. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on areas of county, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia for first reading, Bill No 84, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: There is no adoption of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, which was proposed by the SDP Representatives Club for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the Working Authorities Reports. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 74 votes in favour, 40 against and 6 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
