ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In front of us is a proposal for a Decision establishing an investigative fact-finding committee in connection with the issued state guarantees from the creditors of the private company Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" Rijeka is now in bankruptcy. The proposal was initiated as you can see by 16 MPs. Although it says that 16 MPs were not personally in a position to sign such an initiative that day, such a proposal, and out of contact with the vast majority of MPs in this House, I was under the impression that there were a lot of MPs who would join this initiative and this proposal. I don't think there's a constitutional and legal basis for making this decision at all. Therefore, the reason was founded and this initiative was established for a large number of MPs to open the debate today in front of the Croatian Parliament and move forward with this initiative. The granting of state guarantees to the Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" river for loans needed by its private owners has been approved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia during the last term at the request of the primary owner of Mr. Damir Vrhnik of the Shipyard Director, whose friendly and party ties with the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Racan, at that time and Deputy Prime Minister of the Government Mr. Slavko Linic and Minister of Finance, Mr. Mato Church, have enabled the acquisition of loans from banks which have been granted state guarantees for approved loans to the shipyard. It's about more banks. It is the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Raiffeisen Bank of Austria with its headquarters in Zagreb, Privredna banka Zagreb, which will use the shipyard to provide credit for the purpose of entering a mortgage on real estate and facilities that make up maritime goods in the shipyard port of Martinščica. The airport "Viktor Lenac" in Martinstica is a maritime good that cannot be privately owned because the maritime goods cannot acquire other real rights such as mortgages. Contrary to the explicit legal provision that maritime goods cannot acquire ownership or other real rights, this happened in the case of the “Viktor Lenac” Shipyard, however, through the privatisation of the shipyard. The establishment of all the circumstances in which the privatisation of the shipyard was carried out in which his director, Mr. Damir Vrhovnik, was enormously enriched is undoubtedly a public interest especially in relation to the granting of the shipbuilding site of credit and state guarantees with the establishment of a mortgage on maritime goods that is generally of general interest to the Republic of Croatia and is under its protection. Therefore, there is a legitimate reason, there is a public interest of taxpayers to open this issue. The granting of state guarantees for the lending of shipyards and payments under the guarantees issued are of public interest. No one can argue that there is no public interest of all taxpayers to discuss it, to remove the fog from the case and to make the public aware of it. The model of party and personal friendship was applied by the government in providing guarantees for loans without legal and valuable coverage that is not a mortgage on the maritime good. This model of support for private interest is a classic case of injury to the public interest which is threatened by this precedent and for future similar cases of possible personal interests and links with senior state officials in the highest authorities, in particular in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Analyzing the documentation available to me in preparation for this point, it is clear that it is people other than former Prime Minister Ivica Racan, former Deputy Prime Minister Slavko Linic, former Minister of Economy Mr Goranko Fizulic, former Minister of Finance of Mr Mate Church and others in a number of former officials and very important factors of the former Croatian government. The aim of this survey of the commission we propose is to identify all facts related to the procedure of granting and granting state guarantees to banks for loans, the private company Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" d.d. In particular, a river of those guarantees for approved loans which are proposed to establish a mortgage on the maritime good for the purpose of ensuring the repayment of loans. What that means is clear to everyone. The Commission must determine who and under what conditions the former Government of the Republic of Croatia was able to provide financial and legal guarantees and at whose request and on whose proposal it issued such guarantees with particular reference to the decisions of the former Government, which it has made for each individual guarantee. In the process of determining the facts and circumstances that have affected government decisions on the basis of which guarantees have been issued to creditors of certain banks, the investigating committee is obliged to take into account documents and documents and to obtain important witness statements, find the experts and other evidence necessary to decide on requests for State guarantees. Since the Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" ended in bankruptcy and the bankruptcy proceedings are now being carried out against the company "Vicor Lenac" at the Commercial Court in Rijeka, the investigation committee should determine which claims the Republic has reported and which financial damage the Republic of Croatia has caused payments and obligations under the guarantees issued. In a procedure that will lead the investigation committee if this Parliament adopts it and I am deeply convinced that it will be the duty of any person whose work or behaviour is being examined, especially the officials of the former Government previously mentioned, to provide an indication of the facts and circumstances of their activities in relation to the State guarantees issued, their users and banks in whose benefit these guarantees have been issued. The area of research covers the activities of all state bodies, particularly the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy and other involved ministries or administrative bodies as well as judicial and all legal and physical persons who are in any way connected or can assist in determining the facts relating to the issue of state guarantees to the private company "Viktor Lenac, d.d. A river that went bankrupt. The survey should start from the 1st issue of state guarantee in favour of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for the credit to the Shipyard "Viktor Lenad, d.d. The river" proposed by the Ministry of Economy on 5 July 2001 as a resolute ministry for proposing guarantees to the government. I remind you that at the time, at the head of the economy, the economy ministry was Mr. Goranko Fizulic, a member of the coalition, otherwise a member of the LIBRE. The first request for approval of the state guarantee for the construction of maritime goods infrastructure facilities was sent by Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" from Rijeka, signed personally by Mr Vrhnik, through the Ministry of Finance, which was then led by Minister of the Church, Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 20 June 2001, to which they submitted a request for the lending and construction of facilities, infrastructure in the area of maritime goods directed to the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The demand for questionable justification and credibility gave support to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison by letter dated 10 July 2001. By letter dated 11 July 2001, the Ministry of Economy proposed to the then Government of the Republic of Croatia the approval of a state guarantee for the loan of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development of $16 million, stating that the Shipyard is predominantly private owned by foreign shareholders, from the Netherlands, the United States of America, Austria, Liberia and others. The letter highlights the Ministry’s view that the creditor for the insurance of its claims does not have the opportunity to enroll in the property on the maritime good, but the letter provides support and is considered to be a reasonable approval of the State guarantee creditor, which is held justified by the business plans planned, planned results for the future, which reduce the risk of the state budget to a minimum. The subsequent course of events clearly showed that this assessment was a complete failure and that the risk of the state budget was not minimal, this state guarantee towards the state budget and taxpayers was not minimal but that it was clear, unequivocal and complete and at the time of giving such an opinion and interpretation. Mr. Church's ministry, by letter of 16 July 2001, sent Racan's Government a proposal for a decision to issue a state guarantee in favour of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development under the responsibility of the Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" from Rijeka for a loan of $16 million. It is pointed out in this letter that given the operation of the Shipyard so far, which requires credit and planned results in the future, the risk of the collection of loans from the state budget is reduced to a minimum. So, again, the thesis that passes through government documents where it is stressed that the risk of collection is minimal, that the risk of billing is practically insignificant which is the later course of events but also the course of events that it wanted to objectively look at was quite the opposite. In seeking agreement from the Ministry of Finance on the intention to grant a state guarantee for credit to the Shipyard "Viktor Lenac, Rijeka" it is concluded in a letter from the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development since 13 January 2002 that the company is currently in difficulty, and therefore it is evident that not realising the request for credit can also result from the launch of the bankruptcy procedure. Therefore, if the Ministry of Finance delivers HABOR the required consent, it is ready to lend the shipyard "Viktor Lenac" with the guarantee of the Ministry of Finance. So, HABOR then points to the seriousness of the situation at Victor Lenc, but God, my banking behavior if anyone wants to pay, they're willing and they get rid of the bag and transfer as much as millions of dollars or euros or hundreds of millions of kunas to the Ministry of Finance and then the government says and stands behind it when it goes down and guarantees that they'll pay it back. The shipyard requested and received a state guarantee for loans, for trade funds granted to it by the Privredna banka Zagreb amounting to 11m euros and Raiffeisenbank from Zagreb, amounting also to 11m euros, and which was then decided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by Racan's Government on 21 February 2002. The mutual rights and obligations in ensuring state guarantees to these banks are regulated by the Republic of Croatia and the Victoria Lenac Shipyard by a special agreement on 8 March 2002. A year. In early 2003, the "Viktor Lenac" Shipyard's agony continues, again on the verge of collapse, however, such behaviours and peaks, otherwise a party friend of the then Croatian government's leaders, continues. So, in early 2003, the Shipyard's request to issue a state guarantee to the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the credit responsibility of the Shipyard comes again, for the adoption of a development programme and for the provision of insufficient crafts, a development programme for the company that is finished, which is dead. This was the case on 9 January 2003, which points out therefore, the ministry backs up again on 9 January 2003, which points out that the approved State guarantees, despite the present risk, are considered justifiable to support the shipbuilding site's request and proposes again to Mr. Church's ministry that the request be met and issued the required guarantee. So, we have one continuity of a few years that the money bags of taxpayers are transferred to a "dead" privately owned and between shareholders, one of the significant shareholders is just a friend, personal friend and party colleague of the Croatian government's leadership at the time. In order to provide an official explanation of the crediting of the completion of the development of the "Vicora Lenca" base and of the missing crafts means of loan insurance, it is proposed and proposed to sign first-row mortgages over the land with the shipbuilding infrastructure, additionally already registered mortgages in the maritime good of the shipyard, and shipyards. In line with this requirement by HABOR, HABOR again approves of the Victoria Lenac Shipyard a $17m loan, i.e. 16m euros per 15-year loan payment of which 8 years starts. Therefore, this continuity continues, HABOR approves and offers funds if it has a firm and certain guarantee that those funds will be paid when sold. And this time as the previous several times again, the Croatian government guarantees that they will pay for the funds. He knows in advance that he's transferring funds to a bottomless well and that he'll pay taxpayers. The Ministry of Finance, also headed by Mr. Churchvenac, then proposes to the Government to make a decision on granting a state guarantee in favour of HABOR, dated 20th January 2003, by letter of 20 January 2003, and to propose assets for the establishment of a mortgage for the purpose of ensuring the state guarantee. First order mortgage in favour of HABOR and second row in favour of the Republic of Croatia. After the opening of bankruptcy over the shipyard “Viktor Lenac” d.d., with creditors, the Republic of Croatia concluded agreements on the regulation of mutual relations with the Privredna banka Zagreb guarantee contract from 13 March 2002, dated 22 December 2003 and with the Croatian Bank for the renewal and development of the agreement on the regulation of mutual relations by guarantee. The risk number of 5 February 2003 concluded on 31 December 2003. It is concluded in these contracts that bankruptcy was opened above the shipyard and that all the claims of those banks which were called by the Ministry of Finance on the day of the opening of the bankruptcy on 8 December 2003 were made by law on the basis of the force of the law, which also called on the Ministry of Finance to pay the amounts referred to in the contract in advance. The Ministry of Finance in a letter sent to the State Attorney's Office in Rijeka on 16 February 2004 indicated that the Republic of Croatia, according to the bankruptcy debtor, the “Viktor Lenac” Rijeka Shipyard, has claims on behalf of the following obligations: under 1. Paris Club, under 2. London Club and under the third state guarantees issued. The letter also states from the base of the Paris Club 62 million 853 thousand 455 kuna and 0.1 lime. From the base of the London Club million 367 thousand 925, kuna, 62 limes and on the name of guarantees issued 256 million 258 thousand 309 kuna, 62 limes. Finally, the report on the revision of the conversion and privatisation of the Viktor Lenac Shipyard in November 2003 explicitly states that since the state guarantees obtained were not achieved, the planned objectives were not achieved and that the loss was achieved in 2002 with liquidity revenue cuts and the increase in debt was not achieved by the privatisation objectives set out in the provision of Article 1. The Privatization Act. This report on the audit carried out describes in detail all the loans that the shipyard received with state guarantees and which, which Mr Damir Vrhovnik transferred to the foreign shareholders, who thus became owners of the shipyard and were actually real users of state loans and guarantees from the Republic of Croatia. After all of this, questions are rightly asked, and this is precisely what is needed to determine the facts relating to the sale and transfer of shares to foreigners who acquired such ownership over the shipyard in the port of Martinščica, which is a maritime good and for the determination of all facts related to the issuing of state guarantees to banks that credited the “Viktor Lenac” shipyard from Rijeka, it is necessary to investigate the investigative commission. In the first row, who are the real owners of the “Viktor Lenac” shipyard, which has been granted state guarantees. Furthermore, the reasons why state guarantees were issued to creditors, shipyards and how the shipyard used the credits obtained. So where did that money go? Because there are reasonable doubts that despite everything that happened when these loans were granted, that money was not spent on purpose. Then which legal and natural persons participated in the preparation and approval of loans with government guarantees based on mortgages? The value and character of guarantee guarantees provided by the shipyard for the provision of credit. Analysis of all mortgages entered on the maritime good for acquired loans that cannot actually be realised because on the maritime good you cannot acquire even the right to stock as a second real right. In addition, it is necessary to establish and verify the course and results of the proceedings at the Commercial Court in Rijeka on a claim to delete ownership on the maritime good county attorney's office in Rijeka as well as entered mortgages to be deleted. In addition, the Commission must establish all important facts on the way and way of spending the financial resources of the loans used and the guarantees obtained, in particular with regard to the possibility of their going abroad and paying to foreign partners and shipbuilding owners. Because of all that is stated, and because of Mr. Slavko Linic's statement recently that he is aware that they have made a mistake, I do not have that statement to read now, I would ask to be brought to me, Mr. Drnic, so I will read it, there are reasonable doubts and justifiable reasons to go into this investigative commission. This is why we propose that the Croatian Parliament make a decision at this session on the establishment of an investigative fact-finding committee in connection with the issued state guarantees, the private company lenders of the “Viktor Lenac” Shipyard in bankruptcy. The concept of this decision, I will read it: To establish an investigative fact-finding committee in connection with the issued state guarantees of private company creditors, the “Vicor Lenac” Shipyard, which has placed a mortgage on maritime good for the benefit of creditors, although no other real rights such as the mortgage can be acquired on maritime goods. Under 2. In order to act as an investigative committee referred to in point 1 of this Decision, there is a public interest as the granting of State guarantees for the lending of private shipyards are mostly owned by foreigners and paid by public interest guarantees issued. Crediting private-owned shipyards now in bankruptcy is undoubtedly of public interest especially in relation to lending and state guarantees with the basis of a mortgage on maritime goods that is generally well outside of traffic and sales. Under 3. The investigation committee is obliged to determine who are the real owners of the Viktor Lenac shipyard to which loans and state guarantees are granted? For the purposes of which State guarantees were issued to shipbuilding lenders, as it used the loans obtained and entered the mortgages on the maritime good, the value and character of the guarantee provided to the shipbuilding site for the provision of loans, in particular of the maritime good in the light of applicable maritime regulations, in particular the Law on maritime good and seaports, which defines the maritime well-being which also includes the port of shipbuilding as a port of special purpose. An analysis of all mortgages entered for acquired loans that cannot be realised and of the hostage properties that represent a maritime good sale, and it is about mortgages that are worthless and non-refundable. The Commission is obliged to establish all the facts on how the loans received, the possible outflow of money abroad, and the reasons that led the shipbuilding site into bankruptcy. In the process of determining the facts, the Commission is obliged to obtain all necessary documents and documents. Witness statements and findings of the experts and allow for any person or official whose work or activity is being examined, an indication of the facts and circumstances of that action. The investigation committee is obliged to carry out research for which it was established within 3 months at the latest and then submit a report to the Croatian Parliament. The investigation committee is proposed to have 7 members appointed by the Croatian Assembly of MPs. This Decision shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. So that's the working version of the decision, proposed by this House. What was the occasion except for all this which clearly shows that state guarantees were issued without any economic justification. That state guarantees were issued even though hundreds of millions of kunas were known to be thrown into the abyss. It's worth millions of kunas of budget money. Although it was known in advance to be damage, the state budget is being damaged and the Republic of Croatia is being damaged. On July 18th, this year, at the time of the annual vacations of the Deputy Prime Minister, then Mr. Slavko Linic had cancer. Now I can say that personally I am the one who misjudged the seriousness of the owner of Victor Lance. Personally, I think it's a failure that we've been trying to save Lenac for so long. Our wish was to help that shipyard. Unfortunately, Lenac went bankrupt for misjudgement. It is said by Mr. Slavko Linic, a parliamentary representative and former Deputy Prime Minister in the morning list and transferred by Rijeka's Novi List on 18 July 2004. In view of the day, I read nowhere to deny Mr Linic's statement that the statement is authentic. And that's why I think it's really justified and established that there are reasonable reasons for such an initiative, to establish everything together, to determine exactly what it is, which is possibly not true. To remove any doubt if not true, and I believe it is in the interest of both former government members and all those participants and factors involved in the process. Unreal spending of budget money, which took part in the process, the financing of their personal home and party friends, taxpayers' money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21266	Thank you. The club of representatives HSLSA and DCA respected representative Frano Piploić. Mr. Caine, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21267	Your Honor, Mr. President, so the IDSa club can check out some new facts, allegations that Mr. Branimir Glavas had just taken from the pay phone, and we're looking for at least a 20-minute break. In particular, as regards the qualifications in the ownership structure, it takes us 15th, 20th minute to process it and according to the Rules of Procedure, we finally have the right to do so. Second Mr. President, we invite you to take advantage of all your influence and to ensure the implementation of the agreement of the extended Presidency of the Croatian Parliament with the leadership of Croatian Radio Television, and that they formally or accordingly agree to allow direct assembly sessions from 9.30 to 13.30. From 15.00 to 17.00 hours. Croatian Radio Television is a public service as you have noticed, and the greater interest is likely to be public than monitoring the work of the Parliament in this country at this time should not be.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21268	Thank you very much. I and the Bureau of Parliament have no powers or influence on the HRT Council when and in what terms they will transmit the direct course of the parliamentary session. At the Presidency of the Parliament, we have reached a conclusion that we have proposed the time of the direct transfer of parliamentary sessions, the HRTA Council has made a second decision to transfer the mornings from 10:30. I'm approving a 15-minute break. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. I'd like a representative of the Damir Caine who asked for a break to...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21270	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. The IDS Club checked out these allegations by Mr. Glavas about the ownership structure, and that's where we found the wrong assessment. At one point, he claimed that Mr. Vrhnik had a majority stake, and then a significant share. This simply does not correspond to the truth, however, is the fact that Mr. Vrhnik had a dominant impact on all the business decisions that the notes eventually led to the collapse of the river shipyard. So much so, I wouldn't take up anyone's time anymore, but later on, if someone is interested in the discussion and we're going to talk about the ownership structure over the years as it's been moving around.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21271	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of HSLS and DC, respected representative Frano Piploić. He's gone. He loses right on behalf of the club on his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21272	You started earlier than you were told.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21273	I started right on time, Mr. Head. Right on time, it wasn't said at half past 11:00, it was 15 minutes. And right after 15 minutes, I started it. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21274	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club supports the establishment of an investigative committee on the Victor Lenac case, and we will vote for its establishment and we will participate in its work, because we do not want to speculate that we are avoiding the debate on the work and operation of the former Vlada, especially members of the SDP government. At the same time, we point out that this case wants to be primarily politicised because the current Government of the Republic of Croatia has mechanisms which can more precisely identify all relevant facts relating to the issuing of state guarantees to the Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" and take certain measures, especially if it determines criminal or criminal liability. In the case of the "Viktor Lenac", the Government of the Republic of Croatia issued guarantees on the basis of an investment project that provided multiple work of income, exports and increased employment, increased employment. The investment project was assessed by eligible and financially accepted by private banks, business banks and international financial institutions. As with the present, the former government treated shipbuilding as one of the priority economic branches, which is visible through the granting of guarantees and subsidies, and treated the Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" as well as other shipyards based on production, employment and exports. The "Viktor Lenac" Shipyard came into financial trouble because of an unscheduled financial structure to complete the investment, so the government joined the owners and lenders in creating a financial structure to complete the investment project, primarily to increase employment, production and exports. Following the government's decision to close the financing of the investment, owners and creditors stalled with their part of the financing. No agreement has been reached following long-term negotiations and various proposals of the banking and international institutions programme. Could the Government of the Republic of Croatia guarantee private companies? The decision on the criteria for granting state guarantees is based on the Law on the implementation of the State budget, which determines the overall annual height and priorities. Article 3(3) of the Decision states that the purpose and purpose of providing guarantees to support capital investments is to improve the general conditions of economic action, infrastructure, restoration and promotion of regional development, environmental protection, technological development, employment and exports. The decision also provides for insurance, guarantees and conditions to be met by the recipient of guarantees, but does not exclude private economic operators. Given the current situation in Victor Lenc, the question of the rationality and purpose of investment in taxpayers' money may be raised, but the way in which the establishment of the investigative committee is being initiated and explained is that the purpose is not to answer this question but rather to conduct a political account with the top representatives of the former government, the vice president and the finance minister whose names are directly mentioned in the explanation. In advance, the political assessment and judgment have been given, and a decision to set up an investigative commission suggests 16 HDZ deputies. In an explanation containing the determination of public interest, the aim of research, the field of research, the scope of the issue is political qualifications, as well as the suspicion of the existence of criminal offences. Proposing the establishment of an executive commission, rather than filing criminal charges, the representatives of the HDZ want a legislative body, i.e. The Croatian Parliament turns into an investigative and judicial body. I'll also back this up with the facts of the argument. The friendly and party governments of Ivica Racan, Vice-President Slavko Linic, Finance Minister Mato Church, explain themselves at the beginning when determining public interest. What is this, rather than a predetermined political condemnation? It is further said that contrary to the explicit legal provision that maritime goods cannot acquire ownership of other real rights, this happened in the case of the Lenac Shipyard through the privatisation of the shipyard. Namely, the question arises when the privatisation of the Shipyard was carried out and who gave consent to it? We also know from the State Audit findings that privatisation was mainly carried out in the 1990s, and that the agreement on the programme was initially given to the Privatisation Agency, after the Croatian Privatisation Fund. When it comes to the field of research, then we also have one here, I think an unauthorized explanation where it is said that the area of research should be covered by state bodies, especially the Ministry of Finance, the economy, other involved ministries and administrative bodies, which is not disputed, but is listed "as well as judicial, therefore the authorities", which is an unacceptable entry into judicial independence. When it is said that research should begin from the first issue of the State guarantee, a detailed description of the issue of guarantees is actually given. All guarantees have been described and the State Audit Report on the revision of conversion and privatisation is called for, and it is actually a documentation that should be followed, if there are such reasonable doubts, judicial authorities and bodies, and not the investigative committees of the Croatian Parliament. Finally, when it comes to a round of issues, the last point states or indent, that the investigative committee must identify all the important facts about the routes and the way in which the financial resources, the credits used and the guarantees received, especially in relation to the possibility of their going abroad and paying to foreign partners and shipbuilding owners. This is certainly not the point, nor is it possible to investigate the investigative commission of the Croatian Parliament, it is the issue of BIAK, the State's Attorney's Office or the Court, if there are indeed such doubts. It is not surprising, therefore, that some media have detected the launch of an investigative commission as a response from the HDZ to our insistence that a debate on the unacceptable for us is opened on the basis of its conclusion in the Croatian Parliament and on the Croatian interests of the harmful arrangement signed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the International Monetary Fund. The SDP club is in the interest of clarifying all the circumstances of granting guarantees to Victor Lenac Shipyard, as well as political insinuations on the case. We would be happy, however, if HDZ representatives had proposed to resolve the status of workers in "Viktor Lenac" or on the topic of overall economic development, greater employment, on raising the standards of our citizens, this is how we remain only on the subject of establishing an investigative commission that, for these reasons, we all support and I repeat, we will vote for this decision and participate in the work of the investigative committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21275	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21276	Mr. President, I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague who said the primary goal of establishing a commission is a political charge with the leaders of the last government. That is not true, from the very material attached and from the law that regulates this area is something quite different, or the aim of setting up this commission, which is the truth about the spent resources of the state budget towards private companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21277	Proposer, respected representative Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21278	The correction is also an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21279	You can come to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21280	Then you'll have to give me half an hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21281	No, I'll give you ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21283	No, the correction of an incorrect quote, but he had, for correcting an incorrect quote, as the proposer has the right for ten minutes. ... For correction, because I know perfectly, not correcting an incorrect quote because he didn't even apply for it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21284	Yes, I did, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21285	No, you didn't sign up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21286	I did, I signed up...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21287	You didn't sign up. I didn't see, you didn't sign up. You've got ten minutes to propose.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21288	I signed up for the correction of an incorrect quote, when I'm done, I'm looking for my ten minutes right, and I'm looking for three times ten minutes, because the public isn't informed about our initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21289	Mr. Glavas, as your promoter, you have during the debate, during the debate to take part in the debate for ten minutes during the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21290	Do I get a correction now...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21291	I haven't seen your license plate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21292	If I don't win, thank you very much. I give up. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21293	Leave yourself alone, please throw yourself away. Did you raise the plate to correct the incorrect quote? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21294	I picked up the tile... I'm glad you gentlemen are supporting me from the SDP. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] It is incorrect for this commission to be established for political disqualification of former Croatian government leaders. It is not a style and way of working for the Croatian Democratic Community to disqualify opponents. That's what you gentlemen have been doing in the past conspiring MPs, calling on the chiefs of police administrations to give them instructions and directives to write false criminal charges so they can remove immunity from individual representatives, and among them, me. But you didn't make it, everything fell apart, and you couldn't even open an investigation. The reason for this commission's launch is to determine where hundreds of millions of kunas of budget money went, and they went to party friends, they went to home friends, you spent non-intentional funds, and I look forward to what you say you agree with the establishment of the commission, so don't turn around, ten minutes twisting stories, accusing HDZ of running...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21295	Thank you very much. Will you... Thank you very much. Mr. Glavas, will you have your ten minutes?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21296	I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21297	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21298	Mr. President, thanks to my business opportunities, I will have to use what no one has used so far, which is that on several occasions I report to the public about the initiative of parliamentary representatives regarding the establishment of the parliamentary commission, since the first hour Croatian television did not transmit, although it knew well what the Parliament was starting with today, that this topic is interesting for the Croatian public. No, they don't pass on a session of the Parliament, they're running some kind of policy. Let them conduct their editorial policy, no one has a problem with it, neither do I, but I have against spending citizens' money over billions of kunas spending, and not taking it, for no one's account, but we'll probably be spending it next week, or by the end of this session. And that's why I'm going to repeat in the first ten minutes as far as I can, what I was saying at the beginning, because it allows me a business opportunity as a proposer. The parliamentary commission should be based on a minimum of sixteen MPs' initiative as it says in the papers, but through a conversation with several parliamentary deputies from both HDZ and other parties, I have been informed that a large majority of parliamentary representatives, even from opposition parties, want to support this initiative to establish this commission. And I didn't sign this initiative myself because I wasn't able to, because that day I wasn't in the Parliament, so here's the occasion I'm joining and let my signature be the 17th on this initiative. It is necessary to determine what has happened over the past three or four years during the former government. As the budget money was spent, taxpayers' money, as the bags of these taxpayers poured over into companies managed by party and personal friends by former Prime Minister Ivica Racan and former Deputy Prime Minister of Mr Linic, and I assume that in close ties they were also former Finance Minister Mato Churchvenac, former Economy Minister Goranko Fizulic, as the papers from the documentation I have, and which we have seen positive opinions and positive recommendations for something that has no economic justification and economic financial justification. The constitutional basis for the launch of this initiative is not questionable, it is based on the Constitution, because there is a public interest in the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, taxpayers to know how they are spent and how taxpayers' money was spent. Therefore, the granting of state guarantees to the "Viktor Lenac" Shipyard for loans needed by their private owners was approved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the request of the owner and I am using the opportunity to correct Mr. Caine, I did not say that Vrhnik is a majority owner, but that a significant shareholder among small shareholders is an irrefutable fact. It was this very Vrhnik and friendly and party ties with Prime Minister Ivica Racan and Vice President Slavko Linic and Finance Minister Mato Church that enabled the acquisition of loans from different banks, which were issued by state guarantees, for approved loans to the shipyard. This is about banks, Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Raiffaisen Banka Austria from Zagreb, Privredna banka from Zagreb, etc. the shipbuilding site for the purpose of providing credit will enter a mortgage on real estate and facilities that make up maritime well-being at the shipyard port of Martinščica. The Shipyard port "Viktor Lenac" in Martinštica is a maritime good that cannot be privately owned because maritime goods cannot acquire ownership of other real rights, such as mortgages, contrary to the explicit legal provision that no other real rights can be acquired on the maritime goods, this happened in the case of the "Vicor Lenac" shipyard. When the privatisation of the shipyard was conducted, I'm not interested in it at all. I am not interested, therefore, in whether this or that political option is responsible for it by 2000, as I am not interested in what happened after 2000. In the year, are you alone responsible as a ruling option then or is someone else responsible for the commission. Therefore, if there are responsibilities and individual people from that government by 2000 and related to the privatisation of Victor Lenco by 2000, let that be determined. No one can stand responsible even if it belonged to a government that worked until 2000. Therefore, the granting of state guarantees for the lending of shipyards and payments are of public interest to the guarantees issued. No one can kill me as a taxpayer and a citizen, and I trust you as an individual taxpayer as a taxpayer, too, and it has to be interested in how the state spends your money. I personally object to the fact that my money that I pay in the budget as a taxpayer is being spent on purpose and ruined and that any government rules the state. So is this one today my, or government coalition that I am a member of. The model of party and personal friendship has been applied by the past government, no one can deny it, in granting guarantees for loans without legal and valuable coverage that is not even a mortgage in the maritime good. This model of support for private interest in the damage to the general, is a classic case of public interest injury that is threatened by this precedent and for future similar cases of possible personal interests and links with senior state-owned associates in the highest authorities in the particular case of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So these things need to be cleared up, and things need to be cleared up. The fog from this event and from these events over the past three or four years during the government of Ivica Racan must rise and we must get answers to the question of what is true. Whether that money was spent rationally or irrationally. Whether that money was shared and distributed in friendly relationships, by party ties or not. All that we have been able to read so far or over the past few years through the media indicates clearly that these money, hundreds and hundreds of millions of millions have been allocated precisely in a friendly and party relationship towards the Supreme and its shareholders to most foreigners, so to private shareholders, to the private company, it is precisely that the reason for the allocation of this money was the close link between Prime Minister Racan, Mr Linic, the Church and other ministers or important factors in the system of the last government. We need to get answers to that. We will remember somewhere in 2000 or 2001 that the prime minister had been on the yacht of Mr. Vrhnik, that he had not been there for a dozen, 15 days in the government, or in the Parliament while the Parliament was in session, the prime minister was sailing. Everyone has the right to choose friends, we have no intention of determining anyone who will hang out with anyone, who will be friends with anyone, it's his private and personal matter, but not at the expense of state and general interests, not at the expense of the budget. The aim of the investigation is to establish precisely the facts relating to the procedure for granting and granting state guarantees to private-owned credit banks for the shipyard "Viktor Lenac", in particular those guarantees for approved credits which are proposed to establish a mortgage on the maritime good. This is a particular topic that requires and requires a thorough analysis. A thorough analysis. How can these be placed on mortgages, mortgages on the marine good? How it was done at all not only in the government, but how it was done at all in the garland. So the spheres of interest in the work of the elected future commission will be much broader than those of which we are now talking. The Commission must determine who and under what conditions the Government of the Republic of Croatia may provide financial and effective guarantees, and at whose request and on whose proposal it has issued such guarantees with particular reference to the decisions of the Government which it has made for each individual guarantee. I'm red. I've used the first 10 minutes, and I'll still get back to you twice in 10 minutes, since that's what the Rules of Procedure lets me do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21299	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, a respected representative of Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21300	I would like to correct Mr. Glavas' incorrect allegations concerning the statement that Croatian broadcasting does not account for anyone. On the contrary, it is true that Croatia's broadcasting sets accounts at three levels. To its viewers and viewers in relation to the quality of its programme and this reflects the ratings and popularity of television. At the second level of the Croatian Radio Television Council, according to the law, which concerns the implementation of the programme and implementation of the law and finally, the Croatian Parliament, which again has certain powers to monitor whether the Council, or whether Croatian broadcasting is fulfilling its obligations. This was nothing but another form and attempt of political pressure on the violation of the constitutional and legal principles of freedom of the media, and therefore I am correcting this incorrect allegations publicly protesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21301	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21302	Your Honor, Mr. President. I am correcting the same assumption that Croatian broadcasting does not account for anyone. Croatian broadcasters account for the Croatian Parliament as well. However, this does not give individual representatives the right to interfere with the HRT programming scheme and determine when HRT will start and when to end the television transmission of this session. This is inappropriate, but unfortunately given the recent attack on the president of the Press Association and what is said about modern-day armed visits to individual offices by Mr. Glavas, and certainly expected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21303	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21304	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, I am pleased that in his second appearance speech, Mr. Glavas said on behalf of the promoters that the Commission's powers should be much broader than it says in the explanation. We're definitely joining the HSP Club. In fact, the question is, what is the motivation of proposing the establishment of a commission that refers only to Victor Lenac? Those involved, of course, were actually involved in giving state guarantees, and these were Victor Lenco's mortgages in one way or another, with a mortgage or no mortgage, with a mortgage that was not supposed to be a mortgage, with a guarantee that could not have been guaranteed or could have been a guarantee, with an entry into the land that could have been entered or could not have been entered, all of which would have been the subject of this commission. So those involved, of course, claim that the motivation to set up a commission like this is actually political and that this is about some kind of political condemnation, persecution, remandism, or whatever you want to call it. However, those who suggest that something like this be investigated in this case, so as Mr. Glavas has said today's ruling coalition in this House, argue that it is not about any politically motivated establishment of the commission but about the investigation of where the taxpayers' money actually went, in which way they spent and who actually benefited from all this. Because what's definitely clear, Victor Lenac didn't benefit from that. That's for sure. But if we're asking the question of state guarantees to private companies, or companies, then the question is, with us at the HSP Club, we're wondering why the investigation committee for Victor Lenac, not the investigation committee for Diocomi, not the investigation committee for Coning, not the investigation committee for the con, con. One word, Con Holding, a whole series of companies that actually got state guarantees and then ended up in bankruptcy. And if you want to during the same last government that vouched for Victor Lentz. In one word, there are a whole series of private companies owned by former, current or former ministers or the chairman of the board of directors of banks. For example, one minister in this case, former minister, Mr. Cacic, was a member of the HABOR Management Board, which gave according to state guarantees, the state gave guarantees to HABOR to lend credit to its companies. Owned, owned by him. Of course, the chairman of the board of directors of the same HABOR, which is also mentioned in the explanation of this investigative committee, then Minister of Finance Mr Mate Churchvenac was the president of that administration. How about I don't list a whole series of private companies in Croatia that have received guarantees and state guarantees and you know what's interesting? As a rule, they were given them when their owners or their management was in power. That's a fact. It would also be interesting to explore how and how the presidents of the boards of directors of banks who have actually become private owners of many of those banks provided by these state guarantees. It's these companies, and that's after they went bankrupt or started privatizing. Yeah, you might say who's closer to the fire is better heated, but in this case, there's safe room to see if he was just heating himself up because he was closer to the fire or if he was cooking something on it. The other thing that's interesting about this issue is actually the issue of State Audit. The proposal for the establishment of this commission speaks of all state bodies that should actually be undermined by a partial survey of this commission, and mention, among other things, the Ministry of Finance, the economy and everything else, that I do not now list. However, for all state guarantees, a state audit has been carried out. What were the findings of this state audit? Did the state review keep some of these facts Mr. Glavas spoke of on behalf of the motionary? As much as my memory serves, it's not. The second question is, each of these companies, including Victor Lenac, had to carry out their audits and hire their auditors to review the company's business. The question arises where is the responsibility of these audit firms that claimed that Victor Lenco was all right, and now Mr. Glavas claims that Victor Lenac couldn't even enter the property in the maritime good, that he couldn't give it up for a mortgage, that he couldn't build anything, invest on marine goods, etc., etc. The audit houses that audited Victor Lenca's business claimed that everything was fine. Where's their responsibility, where's their license? Whether they will be subject to any material responsibility or at least in the end of the line to be lifted from their audit licences. I'll remind you of a similar case in the same place or a little further from Martinsica Bay, and this is about the Rijeka Bank. We've had a debate here in the last assembly of Parliaments that lasted all day, and I'd say I'd even stretch out for two days about the Rijeka Bank. The audit house that audited the operations of the Rijeka Bank claimed one day before the scandal echoed in public, so the day before the audit house reported that the Rijeka Bank was all right. Where is the responsibility of that auditory house? Material, moral, license, professional, whatever you want. Yes, the state bodies really did some of their jobs, and some of the state bodies didn't do their jobs. If they were, we probably wouldn't be talking here today about setting up this committee. That's for sure. I'm sure the State's Attorney's Office could have found a way to start researching Victor Lance and all of his procedures. I already counted it once. But I wouldn't be here on behalf of the HSP club accusing these state bodies, but I conclude that the fact that these state bodies did not, for one reason or another, want to or could not investigate all the deep things about Victor Lance and state guarantees and loans to a private company. And for this very reason we are experiencing a proposal that the Croatian Assembly establish an investigative commission to assist these very state bodies, therefore, the Croatian Parliament as some sort of, let's say, under the Constitution, the authority of these state bodies actually, not in a certain way, to take over their work but to help them do it in a way that they need to do it according to positive legal rules. This assistance may be multi-significant, but what is common in all democratic parliaments in the world, when they set up some investigative committees, is precisely that aid that should be given to state bodies, i.e. to remove those obstacles that prevented these state bodies from carrying out their tasks in the right way or, if you want, in the manner in which they are in charge. Therefore, I do not think that the commission should take over the work of the state authorities responsible for this, I do not think that the commission should actually be some replacement for the State's Attorney's Office, USKOK, the Police, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration and all the other state bodies that should be here, which should have acted here rather than the other way around. It should be helpful to remove those obstacles that are most often and almost always political in nature, that these state bodies did not work properly. For this very reason, the HSP Club will support the establishment of this commission, but I am here to ask the HSP Club to extend the authority of this commission from the Victor Lenac case to all other cases very similar in which former ministers as company owners received their state guarantees, i.e. to receive state guarantees for loans from various banks. And that, interestingly enough, some of these companies only after that began to do a successful job but some of them, like Viktor Lenco, went into difficulties and went into bankruptcy and even those contracts that they had about building or executing something towards the state as an orderer of different kindergartens, nursing homes, and they simply went into oblivion because these companies went bankrupt. Therefore, I would like to ask you to extend this way on behalf of the HSP Club, so as to extend the Commission's competences in this way, so as to remove any doubts about political motivation and the establishment of this Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21305	Thank you. In the name of the promoter, the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21306	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First, I will take the opportunity to respond to what was incorrect in the presentation of Mrs Antunovic and Mr Stazic. I am pleased that these are the only truths to my first 10 minutes of exposure, the topic is the investigative commission, the subject is the accidental spending of taxpayers' money, citizens, the sharing of that money to friends, perhaps relatives, party colleagues and friends, and there is no objection to this, but is trying to distract the subject and impose on the public that I am dealing with how Croatian television should be edited. I've never been involved in editing Croatian television, so I don't have any right now, but I intend to do an analysis of everything that's going on on that television, in the first place 800 million kunas of citizens who collect and bag on the basis of a television subscription, and that's not the point, we're not going to talk about it today, we're going to talk about it in 10 days. It's also incorrect and false, Mr. Trainer, that you keep trying to place yourself, but also some people who work in some so-called. The media that I've ever entered with Kalashnikov in some kind of media house, it's just a lie you're countering today, all yesterday, Lucic, the day before yesterday, Drago Hegl and so on for 10 years, but I'm not going to deal with it either. Let's move on, where we've stopped and that's the goal of investigating this committee. The objective is clear, to establish the facts and circumstances that have affected the government's decision-making based on guarantees to the lenders of certain banks. The investigation committee will conduct an examination of the documents, financial documents, conduct talks and collect statements from participants of these events who think differently today than they thought three or four years ago when they were under the boot of the former coalition authorities who are ready to talk about some things they had to keep quiet about today, and because citizens want to know the truth about what happens when the curtains go down, when cameras are shut down in the government's closed seats, when guarantees are given and citizens don't know about it, when arguments are being made that are not, and based on these false arguments, these untrue arguments 10, 10 million euros, dollars and hundreds of millions of kuna are being poured out of their friends in some business transactions into some company accounts that are pre-recognizable of being dead, and that it is only a matter of days when they are officially removed from the court register. In the process to be conducted, it is up to each person whose work and behaviour is being examined in particular by the officials of the former Government to make it possible, by name, to show the facts and circumstances of their activities. In connection with the State guarantees issued, their users and banks benefiting from them. Therefore, we advocate a legitimate, public transparent work of this commission, allowing all participants in the process to express their opinions and to express their truth. In this way, I reject the most vigorously all those insinuations that have been said so far and which will be said in the debate that this commission is motivated by political disqualification of political insinuation from the ranks of the former government's SDP, i.e. the former coalition. They will all have the opportunity, with the presence of the public and journalists, to present their opinions, their arguments to refute and to deny these fundamental doubts that we are guided by when we propose that this commission be chosen, and I am pleased to hear often that whatever representative of yours is reporting is expressing satisfaction and joy and sharing an opinion, gives support to this initiative that this commission is set up, therefore, this debate should not be long. ...as soon as you consider, conclude, established, and let the commission work and the sooner it will be settled. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you to allow normal exposure to my absences from the SDP ranks, if that's possible. The field of research will cover the activities of all state bodies, so they will all be covered by the Ministry of Finance led by Mr. Churchvenac, from the Ministry of Economy led by Minister Fižulić a little later and Mr. Jurcic, to all who were involved either through ministries or other administrative bodies, as well as the courts here in the first place, to see how the mortgage can be recorded on the maritime well-being. Let's see on whose order it was made, because some of the indications that we have are saying that there were direct phone lines on the route of the Banski dvor, whether the president or vice-president of the Government now urge me to take my word, whether Racan or Linic, don't take my word for what has been issued to the courts, the grantines, to register what cannot be recorded, which other normal citizen cannot register. But it's a friend, Mr. Vrhovnik, that's hundreds of millions of kunas being placed on a private company, and then close your eyes with one eye, and it's possible to do anything, so let's see if that's possible or not, so we're looking for a commission. The survey should start from the first issue of a state guarantee in favour of the Croatian Bank. So, since 5 July 2001, when all this began, when Mr. Fižulić, as a resolute minister, proposed guaranteeing the foundation and founding of such a single requirement for such a single state guarantee that all taxpayers guarantee for one company that was then on artificial breathing, for which we all knew in advance that there was no prospect of any future but was skillfully manipulated stories about the care of 2,3 thousand workers should be saved by Viktor Lenac for 2,000 workers. It was not a matter of 2,000 workers, but of the interests and interensitivity of Mr. Vrhovnik, Mr. Racan and Mr. Linic at the very least. Not to go any further, Mr. Church, the Beans, etc. So, we're going to start on June 2001, and we're going to re-analyze a correspondence from the economy since 11 July 2001, where the government is proposed to guarantee $16 million. No less than $16 million. At that time, practically the dollar and the euro were even, so it's much, much more than math says today, it's equal to 16 million euros. So somewhere else a million and 200 grand more, when you level with the euro. And this is all given together to companies with largely private ownership of foreign shareholders from the Netherlands, the United States of America, Austria, Liberia and others. In a letter signed by Mr. Fižulić, I believe, it points out that the creditor for the insurance of his claims does not have the possibility to sign up on the property on the maritime good, but he does consider it justified because the creditor needs to be granted a state guarantee, although it is not quite legally based, because he holds that it is justified because of the business so far planned some results that will happen one day or one year, but therefore it takes the risk of the state budget, and his estimates are that this risk is reduced to a minimum, to a minimum. I don't know if he would have written this way that he had to give his private property as a guarantee to Vrhnik and Lenco that the risk was minimal, so that he could put his few million euros or a few dozen million euros as a guarantee to Vrhovnik and society and guarantee him that it was a good job, that he was sure that it would come back to him, certainly not, be sure he wouldn't. But when you beat up... other people's things then it's getting much better, more convincing, everything's much more convincing and there's no problem, it's easy to sign state guarantees. The finance ministry also cared about it as of July 16th, and guaranteed that these 16 million dollars could be overloaded if necessary by bags from the state budget of Vrhnik and private shareholders, private persons and foreigners who were the majority owners of Viktor Lenco. Thank you. I'll continue after 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21307	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21308	First of all, it is not true that Mr. Glavas' claims about HRT are the only lie I had to correct. Those were more false, but in the context of correcting an incorrect quote, I can only correct that. Secondly, it's not true that I'm the one who put Mr. Glavas and Kalashnikov in the newsroom, I just said that's the word. Those stories came to me. Third, like... Third, Mr. Head is... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21309	Please, peace. Please, peace. Don't throw it at me. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21310	Thirdly, Mr. Glavas spent 30% of his advance on indicating the need to examine the way HRT's subscription money is spent. I expect Mr. Glavas, as a new form of pressure on HRT, will propose an investigative commission on the subject as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21311	Thank you very much. With regard to your allegations from the Bureau session, it was not suggested by anyone else, but by one vice president to consider and assess because television is going towards the commercial programme and the allocation of the subscription. Don't insinuate someone else. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. It was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, okay. Respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21312	Mr. President, it is precisely in the heat to put this motion on the agenda as soon as possible, so that it is not respected by the rules of the Rules of Procedure. The provisions of Article 135(2) in the same respect as Article 177 concerning the submission and referral of proposals and the adoption of other acts of the Assembly, as well as the law, have been violated. Toleration..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21313	You can't, fellow Members, the breach of the Rules of Procedure may refer not to the alleged proposals set out in the reasoning of the proposal, but to this debate. No, if the Rules of Procedure have been broken on the draft act, you can't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21314	Let me say it. You probably saw it yourself, so now you're stopping me from what's going on. Here are the promoters.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21315	You can't talk about it, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21316	How it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's what the Rules of Procedure is talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21317	You can compare to the current debate. Thank you very much. You know perfectly well that you can't talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, about anything else, but about the course of the debate. Did the speaker in the debate hurt the Rules of Procedure. And don't come with that stuff when you know it. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21318	The incorrect statement by my colleague Glavas, who said: "I do not intend to edit Croatian television, because in the previous performance, he said, "The television is implementing some kind of policy", which you do not know that it should implement not its own policy, but probably Glavas or I do not know which policy. As for the commission. But what you're dealing with here, you have your own levers of power, process it, you've already given all the qualifications that deserve to be processed if that's the case. So far the usual position has asked for commission, this is the first time the government has asked for it. All the levers are in your hands, please. And as for euphemisms like...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21319	And as for correcting an incorrect quote, thank you very much. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, a correction of the incorrect allegations. You see, I've got you on record, and I've been watching you lift that bat, too. So I'm supposed to keep coming up in a position to lift the bat, then deny that it's up. Or she claims to have gotten up, and she hasn't gotten up. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21320	Mr. President, my colleague Glavas said the guarantees were given on the party line. I'll make that quote right the next way. This is where Mr. Glavas showed an elementary ignorance of party history. But the fundamental principle of party history is solidarity. We know that Mr. Racan, Mr. Linic and Mr. Vrhovnik and Mr. Churchvenac are longtime party members and of course they have helped each other. And even though you don't know party history, Mr. Glavas, and that's the fact that he's turned that solidarity, Comrade Tito, into a steam that has ruled these premises for 45 years, it's "get on with it, buddy." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21321	The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21322	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. First thing I want to ask is, do we have any formal conditions for the establishment of this investigation committee? Why? Because for a year now, we have all been aware of certain court proceedings in Rijeka. And we all know the same until it ends the question of whether it is possible to launch an investigative commission. But that's why I believe it's not even the point of forming an investigative commission, but first of all to plow the former government, and that's certainly the political goal, let's not be children, because at least we're so mature to recognize it. So, there should be a debate in the Committee that the SDPs will not be able to refuse, and in the end perhaps even to conclude that no formal assumptions have been met for the formation of the Research Commission. And Mrs. Zgrebec said that it might have been practically and convinced of what will be discussed during today or tomorrow on an agreement with the IMF. However, all of what we are doing today is a little damaging. All of this is harmful, above all, for the fate of Victor Lance. Finally, we are also aware that this government will also end up with a series of failed restructurings, privatisations, dots, shipyards, insurance companies and so on, and that perhaps then in 2007, some new assembly will seek the responsibility of current ministers, current vice-presidents or Prime Ministers. When the economy is Wednesday we are also also aware of the fact that it is not possible to rule out politics but it must not also allow political action, that is the point to me. And it is also clear that gentlemen from the government and here I mean HDZ and HSLS, DC, Croatian party of pensioners, SDS etc. that the opposition will not forgive you even the slightest failure, whether it is about tomorrow's, over-subsuming appointment of the Telecommunications Council, whether it is about the IMF, whether it is about the Maritime Law on the 0,0 Promila provision, The Hague, Željezari Sisak and so on. For a whole series of moments, the government can't even influence it. Return to Blaskovic's home and allow six men to await trial from freedom. They're crucifying you for Cermak and Markac. You succeed in prolonging the agony of Belja, it may open up to you, without your guilt, the problem of the Sisak Ironworks which is insecure, you suck up money in shipbuilding, and I'm afraid that after this debate Lenac will stop, etc. But you are the authority and must not descend to the level of the critics or the opposition would say Mr. Bebic. I would say, however, that this was motivated on one side and the attack on the opposition and perhaps by washing hands from the most likely second bankruptcy of Lenca in a year. What exactly are we doing to this committee? Are we helping Lance? No, I don't. Then why all this debate if you can't help current and former employees, if you can't help the cooperatives, if you can't help the city of Rijeka and finally lenders of that "Lance". And what we don't seem to be helping Lance, we're getting back at Lance. We're pushing those 502 workers out of Lance, we're giving foreign companies a signal that they're not serializing ships in Lenca, the bankers aren't going to borrow the money from Lenca, and bureaucrats in the government are standing, waiting for what the Parliament or I don't know who's going to bring it. That's what we're actually doing. So, because of two, three, I don't know the slap of the former government, two three insults that we can send to Mr. Racan, Linic, the Church, we risk after the bankruptcy and bankruptcy of Lenac ending up in liquidation, ending up in a warehouse or as it says "New List" to imagine now turning Uvala Martinščica into some fun park or Luna Park. If the shipyard doesn't go, then I don't know if it's gonna open up that fun park, the Luna Park, Disney Land, at least it's crazy, but before that, I'm saying that this government has to make an effort to help the Lentz himself. Croatia ran out of remont shipyards. Not only does 32 or 32 Croatian ships in domestic remont offices operate under a foreign flag, but domestic ships are no longer serviced. This means, however, repairing ships still our workers but no longer in Croatia but under the Italian flag as a rule... It's my philosophy to fight for every job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be illusory to believe that every job can be preserved but if it is preserved in such companies every third I think it is done a lot and it doesn't matter whether Lenac is there now on Wednesday, whether Belje is Wednesday, whether Željezara Sisak, whether Prvomajska from Rusha, who today could have 200 workers to release Cimos from Buzet. No, that's not what I'm saying to this government. That's what I'm saying to my ex. It was not possible and today Cimos took over 3,000 jobs in Kikinda, Vojvodina, but it is not as good for Croatia as for Slovenia. But get back to that Lenac. I won't mention these guarantees for a moment. Clearly, without them, bankruptcy would have happened three years earlier. But first, I will mention the November 2003 revision. Lenac is founding 48. The director at the time of the conversion was Mr. Damir Vrhovnik. It was converted to 25.1.1993 at the time of HDZ. It was never clear to me how that a socialist director could do nothing less than take over at that time an entire shipyard. It happens, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What is important is the estimated value of the company was 17.4 million marks. It has been transformed into a way that, with a discount, 40% of companies have taken over employees and 60% of foreign employees. The transfiguration is, I agree with Mr. Glavas masterly performed but still all through the Rijeka Bank which we can also say something about. On 22.12.1992, Vrhnik and 30 employees concluded a contract without a discount on the purchase of 13.2 million marks, the money was received from the Bank of Rijeka and was not carried out by the transfer of bonds in the form of a library claim based on the conversion of daily deposits of citizens into public debt. The funds paid the fund first two million marks, then the Arsenal Venezia comes in... Marks, Amsterdam... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's got 27.5. 2.6 million marks, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what I'm trying to say. We don't need an investigative committee when we already have an audit report. Also, we know exactly the ownership structure on February 28, 2003, it changed precisely from the beginning to February 28, 2003, so before bankruptcy. After that, the banks come in, it's not even interesting anymore because we know everything about it. So, 28.2.2003. Ella three Amsterdam has 27.2%, International Finance Corporation Washington 17.7%, Raiffeisen Austria 12.5%, small shareholders 11.9%,... Germany 9.3, Damir Vrhnik 1.2, Mr. Antunac 0.6%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The ideal structure of ownership or business appetites of the administration have been eaten by society. The revenues have been growing since 1993 when they amounted to 291 million kunas to 583 million kunas in 2000, 598 million kunas in 2001, now falling in 517 2002, but that year there was a loss of 108 million kuna and a clear alarm rang with full force. In 2002, the state had to start pulling itself out, there were clear elections, disputes in the coalition, etc. But at Lenca, she had almost $60 million in guarantees, and now we're coming up with a fundamental question as to whether Lenac could be saved. Could hundreds of cooperatives have been saved and many were craftsmen, responding to their entire assets, so they would be left without their houses, grandfathers, or apartments. Is it possible to preserve the core of that remont shipbuilding site, so eventually it might sound like a small-damaged bank? Maybe, but the election is still a problem, fell at the most awkward time, for Lenac apparently at the worst time. Why? Because the long-term commitments of Lenca were 502 million kuna and the short-term 387.5 million kuna of 517 million kuna realised as much as they had in 2002, and that is clearly bankruptcy. Finally, the total revenue for the period 2000-2002 was reduced by large assets, mainly from sales abroad. There they were reduced by as much as 345 million kuna or 75.8% and there was this huge business crash. We've been talking here and no one in that Lance has ever wanted to serve ships and we're doing something like this today. So I'm deliberately mentioning the drop in foreign incomes by 75.8% to know what we're playing at. After this commission, we're texting again... The city and the world, all of you who served your ships in "Lance" don't do it anymore because "Lenac" is the second time in a year before, I don't know, the crash. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think that if such a message comes out of this assembly that it's going to be blinding all of us, blinding politics because of the petty interest we're driving in the liquidation of "Lenac" which is a note that's embarrassing and it's not working, but come on, I'll be back in 2002. Clearly, it doesn't justify a poor assessment of the former government, but I also know that the government had no choice after almost all the banks raised their hands from Lance. The banks knew what they were getting into with their money and he's right, Mr. Glavas, the banks will credit, there's no problem with the money as much as you want if there's someone behind it to serve it. At the time, there were about 1,000 workers, 1,000 co-operatives, it was Rijeka, more specifically the industrial character of Rijeka. It's been in that town since the '90s, so until today, it's gone... Industry, from the Croatian line, rope factories, Hartera, Ricardo, Benčić, Torpeda, as I know it, Rijeka Bank is happily saved etc.. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now the question arises whether others would have done just as much in government to help "Lance", as now the workers of the mammalian hardware store from the gentleman, I don't know, the Prime Minister, Mr Sanader or the Parliament expect to do just as much for that ironworks, regardless of how we all know that the one who enters with that money, may be burned in 2007 or 08 in one of these investigative committees as the former ministers are roasted on the quiet fire today. And in that "dead" and today, huge money is being invested, as huge money is being invested in both shipbuilding and tourism, and I don't know agriculture and that sort of thing. But what I'm saying is, we don't help Lance with this, we're pushing these Lenacs into liquidation, and we're forcing workers to either go to the Employment Service, or we're doing a little bit less of the Falcon mind in Italy. So instead of talking about helping Lance, we would say Mrs. Zgrebec is playing prosecutor and judge. And in the end it will end that nothing will happen but "Lenac" will be sold for nothing but old iron. Here, to see this same guy from Dusseldorf, he's offering 6.2 million dollars for the location of Martinstice. The OMZ from Moscow, or I don't know from Russia, offers that location $5 million. Nothing, here, nothing here, it's the fate of Lance today. So the former government may have spent state money in that case, but with the intention of helping him, but this government, I'm afraid, can shut down Lenac, which I'm afraid is too bad. Because one remonting shipyard in Croatia needs it. Croatia does not need a Vrhovnik's vision of another sixth shipyard when and five of them for Croatia may be too much, but Croatia certainly needs one well-remonted shipyard of the type "Viktor Lenac", not as it should be. And if we might accept that, maybe "Lance" could be helped, maybe we can get him up into some kind of shipyard and otherwise question what's going to happen. And that's why I'm calling, appealing, let's not give up on Lance yet, and with the Supreme, we're dealing with some other institution, or instance. And that's the IDS message, we want to believe that for these 502 workers, as many as there are today in Lance, there's still a chance. If Croatia can preserve five shipyards and seas, if it can preserve these large combinations and seas, then I believe there is a possibility of preserving that "Lenac" and it would be good to open the debate on shipbuilding. What I welcome is the engagement of the union and Mr. Andri Hebrang's position, who has made it clear that the Croatian Privatisation Fund will reprogramme loans to shipyards for a year at the request of the union. God forbid it should happen, even though they have no place to pay, so let it be extended to them. However, I think it would be good to go with the conclusion that the property sold is "Lance" for example. I don't know how much, maybe 10 million dollars ends up in Lenca, and let that be the basis, the core for the new start of that Shipyard, and not that there in a year, we all, I don't know, we ride in those cars in some lunatic park, or we spin around in the ringishipil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21323	Thank you. I am reporting that at 11.26, the time for a ten-minute hearing has expired for this day-to-day work point. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. First, honourable representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21324	I'd like to correct Mr. President the incorrect assumption that in the debate of an esteemed colleague, twice, almost identically repeated himself. I quote, "This way, by establishing the Committee, we force the remaining workers from Viktor Lentz." I absolutely say that's not true. Working legal status now, employees of Viktor Lenc have neither logical nor legal consequences in relation to the decision to set up the Commission. It should be said that a bankruptcy procedure has been launched as a company in Viktor Lenc since December 2003. That's one thing. And two. Also quoted: "We're driving Lenac into liquidation, Lenac into liquidation from the bankruptcy proceedings by a decision to set up an investigative commission." This is not only not true, it is and, it is a policy in relation to politilization compared to specifically this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21325	Thank you. Honorable representative Ivan Chehok, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21326	I am correcting the incorrect assumption that by giving money to Lenco, the former government wanted to help Vrhovnik, because if the former government wanted to help all workers in all the companies that were in difficulty, then it would help MTC and Vartex, the entire northwestern Croatia, and millions went to Rijeka and northwestern Croatia did not get any kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21327	Thank you. Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21328	Mr. President, counterpart Damir Cain said, I literally quote: "Croatia must preserve the shipyards, Croatia must preserve the combinations". It's a total inaccuracy. A fellow cannot rise a dead man, neither of them. The Croatian state has fallen into one and the other with terrible money and the situation is ten times worse there today than it is. And I can tell you under what conditions only Victor Lenac can remain. To be led by Damir Vrhovnik and the chairman of the Supervisory Board to be Ivica Racan and members of the Supervisory Board Slavko Linić and Mato Church. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21329	Proposer, esteemed representative, Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21330	Also a brief review of Mr. Cain's exposure. Mr. Cain, you're trying to impose the thesis that this government, this commission or this assembly majority wants to lead the Lenac to total collapse by establishing the Commission. True, the Bible has recorded one or several cases that a dead man has risen, but these are just Bible events I do not believe in and share Mr. Lonchar’s opinion that a dead man will not rise. And therefore, this commission is not founded with the intention of throwing Lenac on his knees, it is already on its knees, and it was thrown by the government and that policy they had implemented from January 3rd to the end of 2003. I'm going to pick up where I left off. The shipyard requested and received a state guarantee for loans, for the crafts which were granted to it by the Bank of Commerce in relation to EUR 11 million and Raiffaissen Bank also in the same amount as EUR 11 million, all of which the government blessed with its decision on 21 February 2002. In early 2003, an identical policy from the previous two was also continued compared to “Lenac”. But on “Lenac” as an exception, not as a rule of some strategic direction of the past coalition government. So the exception for already known reasons, which is private interests, private contacts, friendship with Mr. Vrhovnik and a particularly emotional sentimental relationship, I do not know for which reasons to other shareholders, foreigners. So I am not familiar with the parliamentary representatives who launched this relationship initiative and what it is, which is the gold thread that bound these foreign shareholders and the Supreme Minister with Mr Racan as former prime minister, Mr Linic as former Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Church as Minister of Finance, Fizulic, Minister of Economy and so on. What's that gold thread that tied them up? What are those interests? What connected them? That's unfathomable to me. It was unspeakable for all of this House, and therefore we want to try to at least try to get into it and figure out what kind of gold thread links these interests to the Croatian Government's former and individual tycoons and different foreign companies and foreign natural persons, so foreigners who were the majority owners of “Vicor Lenca”? So in 2003, it continues with the same intensity, the same policy, and once again, the state guarantee for the company that is on its knees, which is artificially breathing and which is known in advance that the inflow of the budget money is a waste of that money, damage to the state's interest of the State budget and simply so publicly said robbery of taxpayers. Mortgage still enrolls where they can't be registered. Once again, hot phones on the Banski Dvori line, gruntovnica courts where the principle of independence of the judicial authority is denied and refuted, the principle of triditation of the authorities does not work, shouting across the phone line from the Banski dvori, threatening “Be sure to register, choose to register those mortgages in grants” and so we want the commission to function and get answers to these questions. It is thanks to that request from January 2003 that the new $17m and EUR 16 million of taxpayers' money again are paying off for 15 years of which even 8 years starts, and the company is practically finished, dead. In eight years' time, there won't be a stone left on the stone from that company, but it's been known for eight years. The finance ministry again proposes to the government a decision to grant state guarantees in favour of the HBOR and so on. And again, not to say that folk proverb: “It’s easy to beat people’s things, to spend other people’s money easily without any responsibility, without any responsibility.” Why wouldn't it be easy when it's given to friends, when it's given to those we know will fertilize in one way or another. It is interesting to ask the question, and this too needs to be discussed by the commission, to analyse whether the money has been poured into some parties, political parties and their facilities have been financed? There was an election coming up. I don't rule out that possibility personally, but I don't want anything to prejudge, I want that commission to determine. And if that were the case, it also confirms this one document that came into my hand a little while ago, which speaks of haughtiness, preparedness at all, but very much of all the furniture that was leaving in December 2003. The elections were held at the end of November last year. It was known you were beaten. It was known you were defeated. It was known why, and one of the main reasons is that hundreds of millions of kunas were poured out for private interests in other people's pockets and in other people's bags. Not in my pockets. These are so much money that they were not put in pockets but were taken away in bags and you lost the election, but it did not warn you and warned you that on 17 December 2003 you issued a warrant and through the Croatian Privatisation Fund you made another debt and paid off another loan when you no longer had any legitimacy for it. No legitimacy. However, if you had a little honesty and cheek, you wouldn't have thought to sign and facilitate the State budget and state money, taxpayers' money for another 15 million 121 thousand 352 thousand and 54 kuna. December 11, 2003. You lost the election somewhere on November 25th, 26th. November 23rd. It means enough time to clean the drawers and leave the Ban Courts but you don't clean the drawers. You thought you'd still agree to some scheme so you could get some kind of majority with the help of some diplomats who weren't very happy that HDZ won, put together at least one vote more and continue with this kind of spending, spilling, seizing, spilling money bags, budget money for citizens in the private pockets of the Supremes or similar. And for that reason, dear gentlemen, we are looking, insisting on the commission, insisting on establishing who the real owners of the “Vicor Lenac” shipyard are, which has been granted state guarantees. We insist on establishing the reasons why state guarantees were issued to shipbuilding creditors and how the shipyard used the credits obtained because it is clear that there was no economic justification for these guarantees being issued. If you knew in advance that money was going down, that it would be paid by the taxpayers, the taxpayers, however, you continued to do so. We insist that the answers that legal and natural persons took part in the preparation and approval of loans with government guarantees based on the mortgage, we insist that the value and character of guarantees and guarantees provided by the shipyard for the provision of loans be answered, we insist that the analysis of all the mortgages entered on the maritime good for the credits actually obtained cannot be realised because the maritime goods do not acquire ownership or the right to pledge as another real right. We insist on establishing and verifying the course and outcome of the proceedings at the Commercial Court in Rijeka on a claim to delete ownership on a maritime good County State Attorney's Office in Rijeka as well as on registered mortgages to be deleted. We insist on answering the question of who issued orders from the government to the garters to enroll such, such mortgages. We insist that the investigation committee determines all the important facts about the routes and the way in which the financial resources and credits used and the guarantees obtained are spent, especially in relation to the possibility of their going abroad and paying to foreign partners and shipbuilding owners. We insist on not having equal treatment and equal status. Mr. Linic took over the post of vice president, and I was then Osijek-Baranja Mayor, on my request to issue guarantees even though it was during the transitional period when the former government promised a guarantee for starch, for a dried vegetable factory, for a frozen vegetable factory, for the sweetener said we would not get guarantees. When I asked him, "How do you want to contact Slavko and cooperate with the authorities where HDZ is in power in the counties?" he replied, "No way." Therefore we insist on answering these questions because we were not in the same treatment. We did not get state guarantees even though we had quality programs and investors known but therefore the state guarantees were received by Viktor Lenac, Vhonik a friend, a boatman who drove both water and Racan and probably Linić and others on tourist trips along our beautiful coast. And for that reason, Mr. President and the honourable MPs, I suggest that you support this proposal, to establish a commission, and that what it does first. If those claims don't stand, let the mortgage be taken off, talk from the former government. If they're standing, let's make it easier for the state institutions to do their job. competent state institutions. The state's attorney's office, the police, and all those who do business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21331	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21332	Thank you, Mr. President, I insist that the Rules of Procedure be respected, and as I have previously said, Article 135 and Article 177 have been injured because, contrary to the provisions of Article 135(2) of the Treaty, you have been declared by the President of the Club and not by the Proposer, or by the person of 16 taxpayers who are proposing this item of the agenda. You tried to give me an explanation I didn't hear it all the way. In fact, what I have heard is contrary to the provisions of Article 209 and I am already dissatisfied and ask for the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system within 24 hours as well as the provision of Article 209. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21333	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. You're the one who claimed that Rule 135 was injured. 136 and 209. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure say, I quote, "The law-making process is being initiated in the form of a draft law with the text of the bill and must contain all the ingredients set out in Article 132 of this Rules of Procedure. And the legislator is obliged to inform the President of the Assembly who, in the working bodies and the Parliament, will give the notices and explanations, i.e. the necessary explanations on the proposed law." This is not about the bill, it's about a proposal to set up an investigative commission. In their proposal for the establishment of an investigative committee, the applicants cited who, on behalf of those who propose the establishment of an investigative commission and the official bodies of the Parliament and the Assembly, would provide an explanation. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure you claimed to have been injured, says the bill in the upper right corner of the titled old lady, and so on, consists. And Article 209. The Rules of Procedure which you have referred to say: "That the MP who wishes to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure is given the matter as soon as this request is made, and that the speech of that representative cannot last longer than 1 minute and the MP must immediately state the article of the Rules of Procedure on whose injury he is speaking2. So it's not about any damage to the Rules of Procedure, but it's about the fact that the President of the Parliament needs a respected representative according to Article 214 to give a warning, because she reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure and started talking about another topic. And therefore, I, the esteemed MP, Antičević, give you a warning. Let's move on. Honorable representative Damir Kajin's correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21334	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr. Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21335	Easy, easy, please. Please. You're right. And another violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21336	Your Honor, Mr. President, colleague Glavas has violated Rule 214 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure which speaks of general rules of conduct in the Parliament. Because he has repeatedly failed in the House, repeating what it is I quote: "It is easy for someone else's things to be young in the clays." That euphemism is clear to everyone. It's lewd and unheard and unseen so far in the Parliament. Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21337	You're a bastard.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21338	.../The speaker shut down and this pitch. These smart guys who squeeze this show only how far their intelligence goes. So, it's about me asking you to prevent further leprosy in the House,... The speaker has been turned off... I'll ask you to let me go to the pay phone. Or discipline the members of your party. So, I ask you to prevent leprosy in the Parliament of the lowest kind. Now please assure me that I can speak at all in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21339	Please speak, I don't know, and I can't tell you who's shutting you down.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21340	Someone very smart.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21341	Maybe someone's very smart.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21342	I'm begging you... And to allow MPs to say that they have the same status that they can speak. [[/The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] So I ask you to prevent lewdness, because this is lewdness and nothing else. Repeating this sentence and that euphemism that is clear to all. That's the purpose of my report. I think it's to protect the integrity of all of us. I wouldn't talk about home-schooling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21343	As for allowing MPs to speak to a respected counterpart, Jurjevic. Just before he was here on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Glavas on this side came and threw. Now when it happens to you then you ask that, then you seek protection. I invite and beg all MPs and MPs, to stick to the Rules of Procedure, not to interfere with their members of the other MPs when they speak. And as for the use of certain illusions of euphemisms, don't make any conclusions. Behind that illusion can be hidden various other expressions, not those you allude to. Now we're going to correct incorrect allegations. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21344	I would correct the claim of the distinguished representative Branimir Glavas' coke is not only wrong but it is blasphemous, blasphemous. In the heat of the polemics, he made a claim, in fact, that he raised public suspicions about the upheaval, claiming that the dead could not rise. Don't laugh, comrade Glavas. If it had come from the right side of the assembly, I would still understand, but your party must certainly call you to account.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21345	Dear Representative Damir Cain and please use your cell phones. My colleagues and colleagues, so do we have a deal not to talk to cell phones in a conference room?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21346	On the trail of resurrection. Mr. Glavas claimed Lenac was a dead man. Lenac is exhaling, but still 502 workers are on their way to work. If only the foreign shipmen after this debate will continue to send for repairs of the ships to Lenac. That was the point of my discussion. Let's not bury Lenac. And I'm still looking outside the I.D.S. club, I don't know, even a lot of Lenca employees if it's possible to try to help them. Let's give them another chance. I was never driven by Mr. Supreme, nor guided by the Adriatic. But let's give this Shipyard a chance. The workers who work there.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21347	The same correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21348	Mr. President, I'd like to correct in part the inaccuracies of my colleague Glavas who said from an opportunity like this. You knew you were defeated and you knew you lost, in fact, the election. I say that, correcting in that part of the quote, we are all defeated if the truth is not learned about Victor Lenco and many other problems accumulated in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21349	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21350	By correcting the incorrect quote that says "the arrogant power of the 12th month gave Vrhovnik 15 million kuna". That's the difference in our behavior. And after defeating the election, we did our job as a government. Making a decision on bankruptcy was supposed to take care of the workers, give them severances. 15 million kuna is provided for workers' severances so that they can continue to operate in bankruptcy because bankruptcy is not a dead man. The bankruptcy is bad for the believers, but the exit for the workers, and that's where we differ. There are people who know their jobs and know how to get companies out of trouble financially. Therefore, it is an incorrect quote from Mr. Glavas. And one more thing. I wouldn't talk about private conversations, because it's very hard to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21351	On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Honored Representative Emil Tomljanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21352	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, we are ahead of us with a proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee to determine the facts relating to the issued state guarantees of private company creditors Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" d.d. River, now in bankruptcy. The constitutional and legal footing for the adoption and proposal of this decision is, of course, found in the provision of Article 91. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in conjunction with Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, The law on investigative commissions. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament can establish investigative committees and for that matter any issue of public interest. The investigating committees themselves have a composition, a deliquor and powers in accordance with a special law, a law on investigative committees, and the president of the investigative committee is elected by most MPs from the ranks of opposition deputies. The existence of public interest in terms of the decision in question is unequivocal, and this is both for the establishment and for the work of the Commission itself, and I think that this should be particularly highlighted and can be summed up into three basic elements. The first element - the granting of state guarantees, therefore, the guarantee as a contract assumed a financial commitment by means of a state budget, thus guaranteeing taxpayers' resources towards creditors the fulfilment of the legal and due obligations of the debtor itself constitutes a sufficient reason to establish public interest, and in particular when it comes to large amounts of money. The second element - the ownership structure of the underlying capital of a company guaranteeing the transfer of credit assets as a private economic entity owned predominantly by foreign persons. And the third element - giving state guarantees and loans with the establishment of a maritime good mortgage that is generally good outside of traffic and sales and on which property cannot be acquired on the other side of the right. All three of these elements, if we look at them as a whole, are not only a question of public interest, but they paint one concise and inappropriate model of lending and payment under the guarantees issued, are a classic example of public interest injury, the private capital links are a model compared to high-ranking state officials' decisions. In a particular situation, the decisions of the Governments of the Republic of Croatia or of the resolution ministers or ministries are fundamental. According to the above, and since the Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" is in bankruptcy and is still subject to bankruptcy proceedings, one of the main issues will apply itself. Did the Republic of Croatia report any claims in the bankruptcy proceedings in bankruptcy proceedings, according to guarantees issued and others, how much financial damage did the Republic of Croatia cause payments and obligations under the guarantees issued? Anything else in this place, I would venture to say that it can be the subject of politics or politicisation, but what will be the objective and result of the work of the investigative committee, therefore, which is the financial damage to the Republic of Croatia caused or happened precisely by the realization of these guarantees and other financial transfers that we are discussing today. The opening of a bankruptcy procedure in December 2003, according to the law, reached all the claims of creditor banks calling on the Ministry of Finance to pay the amounts mentioned in the guarantee contracts. It is obvious that the documentation, namely the arguments of the decision in question, also raises a number of other questions that need to be shed light on, and given that much of this is said here, I will mention only some of them: The reasons why state guarantees were issued and the way loans were used, which were legal and natural persons involved in the preparation and approval of loans with state guarantees on the basis of mortgages, values and character of guarantees and guarantees provided to the Shipyard for the insurance of loans, an analysis of all mortgages entered on the maritime good. But, I mean, what interests all of us together and the public most: Who are the real owners of the "Vicor Lenac Shipyard" which has been granted state guarantees in relation to the fact of the roads and how the funds of the credits used and the guarantees obtained especially in relation to the possibility of their transfer abroad and payment to foreign partners and owners of the Shipyard. Accordingly, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, I propose that the decision in question be taken, as well as the appointment of presidents and members of the committee as soon as possible, so that the same will begin with the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21353	Thank you very much. The correction we have an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21354	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. For the sake of the Croatian public, it is necessary to correct the incorrect, i.e. to blame the alleged representative of the club. In his statement, he stated that the commission had a majority of the opposition. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on investigating committees, the investigative committee shall consist of or correspond to the party composition of the Assembly. It is important for the public to say that the representatives of the HDZ Club propose the establishment of a commission and that they will be the majority in the commission. Therefore, it is the meaning of correction, not that it will be the majority of the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21355	Thank you. Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21356	The Rules of Procedure in Article 2 of indent 4, perhaps you have misheard me, for you have corrected what I have not absolutely said. Here, I can show you what's written, "The President of the Investigative Commission elects most of the MPs." So you're not, then surely not.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21357	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the club, the proposer's representative, Mr. Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21358	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I haven't been able to finish it all. I will look again at this decision of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Since 18 December 2003. So, after losing the election, the taxpayers' money is being spent again and a few more bags of taxpayers' money is being relocated to Victor Lenca's account in the form of loans that are known in advance that will never be returned, and these loans were lastly heavy 15 million 121 million 352 kuna and 54 June. There's no moral right to that furniture that lost the election twenty days and twenty-five days before that, which had only so much time to clean out the drawers and go she didn't have to transfer 15 million kuna to Victor Lentz. Why Mr. Linic? You said you'd set up the workers, that it was a payday. I can agree with that, but you've been doing discrimination again and that payment and that tranche you transferred, discrimination against the other workers. Victor Lenac had dozens of co-operatives, from Djura Djakovic, from Međimurje companies, and you were not worried about whether the workers of Đuri Đaković, co-operatives from Međimurje, Varazdin and other parts of Croatia would get paid. You didn't care about that. Let the team take care of that too. What do you care if Slavonac got paid if he was helping Victor Lentz? You did this because you knew what was coming, social unrest, social rebellion, revolution in Rijeka, where there could also be those 2,000 workers chasing and the events falling under control, and the safety and property of, say, Vrhovnik, Mr. Vrhovnik, let's say those who sat in the government, who took part in all this, and perhaps yours. And that's why you bought social peace in Rijeka, and you didn't have a headache, and you slept peacefully because no workers in Slavonia were paid as co-operatives of "Viktor Lenca", which they did not receive in Međimurje as co-operatives of "Viktora Lenca", Zagorje, Zagreb and other parts of Croatia. That wasn't your concern. And that's why I can't agree with you, and that's why I'm asking this committee to be adopted, even the proposal is seven members, let it be bigger, let it be bigger. Let the quality of this be done, let the question be answered whether the state can intervene and place hundreds of millions of kunas in private companies and private companies. They say those who want to suck something up, all that's not forbidden is allowed. I'm asking Mr. Caine, I don't know if he's here, he didn't come out. Does he know how many Fiat Italians there are? Did the Italian state place money in a private company when they were in trouble, and Fiat is in trouble right now? What Italian Prime Minister Berlusconi said cannot be the Italian state and the Italian State will not intervene and financially help the money of Italian taxpayers of a private company. So the Italian government of recent times, the freshest, this year, has made a clear categorical and unequivocal point of view that private companies cannot be helped. I cannot help private companies either here, the social programme and social care of workers can be spent on taxpayers' money but can't be saved by tycoons, Mr. Linic, as you told me when I intervened in the arrival of "Beneton" in Osijek that you will not help and will not intervene on the arrival of "Beneton" in Osijek because this will save the tycoons. I said not to save the tycoons, but to help realize a quality program, one quality foreign investor of the world's renome, the Italian company "Beneton", which will directly employ two hundred workers in Osijek and tie together several thousand co-operatives of the textile industry from the area of Osijek-Baranja County and Slavonia. You refused, and the media also said that these are criminal interests and the range of foreign criminals supported by local criminal, criminal political miles. This is what Croatian television has announced, it has given you space to bend and spit, and you are passing a quality foreign investment on which I am then mayor and today as Parliament's representative proud.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21359	Let's get back to the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21360	We're going back to the commission. You haven't had the same treatment. You haven't had the same treatment. We couldn't open it because you were in power because you didn't let the commission open. ... And therefore honored gentlemen and the last move you made in the amount of 15 million 121 thousand kuna that you transferred to the bags owned by Mr. Vrhnik, through the account of a failed company and a few foreign shareholders, you did against all moral standards, you did against all customs, rules of good conduct, good management of state money, and as people who acted in authority in those four years you were bound to do so, both according to tax bonds and country. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21361	No, no one claimed that money was transferred in some bags, and I think that this... Mrs. Opačić, Ms. Milanka Opačić's representative asked for a word, I don't know what to say. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21362	Well, Mr. President, on behalf of the SDP Club, I asked for a word. I ask you nicely, on behalf of the Club today we have said that we support this commission that we will vote for it, we are ready to take part today in the debate on the subject that is being discussed here today, which is the committee for "Vicor Lenac", but please, this is not the place of any convictions, this is not the place of any accusations being made before the commission has even begun to work and discussed all the data and all the evidence and all the arguments relating to the case "Vikor Lenac" and I ask you that the subject does not spread here and does not turn into a kind of political speaker, because here today it is a subject which is very limited, and it is only about "Vicor Lenca". If there is a need to open up some more investigative committees, we have no objection, but we ask that a final debate be opened on the basis of a particular document. So, please, let's get back to the subject and that's Victor Lenac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21363	I agree that we should stay, that we should stay on the subject because there is not a single story that can't be related to anything, so I agree completely that we should stay on the subject, and that's a proposal to appoint an investigative committee for "Vicor Lenca," and I also ask all MPs to stick to it and not spread the problem because then when one expands, then it has the right and the other. So I'm also joining that appeal to stay exclusively on this subject. Here we are in our session watching and listening to the fourth class of VII. High school in Zagreb, so we welcome them. Now on behalf of the HSS Club... Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Linic has asked for a correction to the incorrect assumption. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21364	I am again correcting the incorrect assumption that the bags of money in the 12th month of 2003 funded Vrhnik, paid for by Vrhovnik. The money is secured for the payment of part of the severance of the worker "Lance" so that bankruptcy can be opened and production continued. It is therefore evident that in the heat of the desire to judge and disqualify politically, it is not spoken correctly. Also, the open bankruptcy process is an opportunity for the current current current government to resolve other creditors, as it is evident that with the bankruptcy "Lance" many Croatian economies have lost some of the money and it is on this authority that just by conducting bankruptcy and bankruptcy production they are trying to settle part of this claim. And as for "Beneton," because it's an open story, thanks to the Bennetton government, it's made production, and that's why it's written thanks to Bennetton. And the fact that a single property owner didn't get the money, there's no need to open a story about it, even though it was started by the proposer, because there's obviously a problem with former relations with the former government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21365	Thank you very much. Here's "Beneton" back in discussion. I think it's more of a somatic conclusion. Mr Branimir Glavas reported on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21366	Article 209 is absolutely... /The speaker turned off and re-enabled./... Article 209 absolutely did not stick to the Rules of Procedure, he was correcting something that was not true. He was correcting and saying that the government helped the arrival of Bennetton. The government planted it under his command to "Beneton" so that it wouldn't come, because it would be the result of the success of local authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21367	Thank you very much. I think that's what we've concluded with this controversy and we're moving on. Here's on behalf of the HSS Club Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21368	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, in the opening section, I would like to say that the HSS will support the establishment of this committee. We're ready to participate in his work. However, in order to support each other, or participate, we will condition that the commission begins to deal with those other guarantees that we have given to all private companies since 90th and so far. For what? Victor Lenac was an exception in the work of the former government, and by 2000, we have thousands of guarantees given to private companies. I estimate that it may even be about ten billion kunas that will come to our charge, which apparently someone had previously given, because the coalition government was not in the period between 90 and 2000. I am absolutely certain that this committee for the Victor Lenac will serve for the daily political needs, that there will be too little expertise, and too little politics that finally proves to us the debate in this House. What was good to suggest is the establishment of a commission for the work of all committees so far, because what result we have had is best known. Let's just remember the explosion in Gliboko Jark, remember the wheat that went missing from the stock we also formed a commission so we never heard anything about it. I remember the axes of the commissions on the work of the Secret Service and still don't count. Well, it would probably have been a good model if one commission had started working on all the commissions so far. I particularly like here the high principle of fellow representatives of Glavas, who is now proposing the formation of an investigative commission. I hope and expect that because of this principle, this Assembly will soon discuss the role of the state in privatising "Valpova" d.d. Generally known that the state bought shares there...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21369	The subject is spreading, and we said we wouldn't spread it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21370	No, I'm only talking about the commission and I hope that principled colleague Glavas will also stand up for another commission, i.e. extending the work of this committee. Because it is generally known that the government of the Republic of Croatia bought shares at several times the price of the local self-government in Slavonia than the private entrepreneur bought them on the market. It's common knowledge and the state has lost a few dozen million kunas there. That math is very simple. If something paid 8 million kuna on the stock market and the state paid 20 million kuna, the difference is known. It's math that's taught at a mere school. I am particularly pleased and the principle of Mr. Glavas because we will probably say something about the principled entry of "The Voice of Slavonia". Now whether it was a rifle gun or a gun, I don't care if it was going into Slavonia's voice or not, that's what we're interested in. I would also be interested in the commission if we heard something about "Belje" which, despite all the announcements and opportunities, was not privatised because we were doing an unprivitating competition where we favored some customers, so we didn't actually get strategic and important investors to privatise "Belja". Well, in order to be so principled, then you should have clean underpants that I use one of the folk's puzzles, and I don't think there's a fellow working this time. If there is, then I would also suggest that it examine the conflict of interest and that the work of the commission be expanded and examined by conflict of interest of Minister Calmeta, who did not adopt a rule after several months on how to calculate impulses in mobile phones.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21371	Please, Mr. Representative. You've been off the subject four or five times already. I warned you once, and now you're still spreading it. So be careful, get back to the commission proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21372	No, I'm just suggesting that the commission deal with it, and by that, I'm on the subject. I'm just suggesting more issues that should be addressed by the commission. So I'm always on the subject, only that subject obviously doesn't suit you that I'm talking about. Because it is generally known that Minister Kalmeta did not adopt a rule after a few months that would protect consumers in mobile phones, because every second of the conversation that we have started, our mobile operators charge with a minute. In this way... a private company, because HT is a private company where the state is only 49% inside, made several hundred million kunas of profit, of course at whose expense, to the harm of our citizens or taxpayers. This proposal is and therefore I am absolutely sure about the work of the commission in the function of bread and games, but the games obviously have too much, the bread is getting smaller and smaller. Yeah, and it's getting more expensive. So that Pinocio and his nose on the oil pre-election poster are getting bigger and bigger, because it is generally known that prices are rising, though the impact is there and world prices, but the state does not want to intervene to cut taxes, to reduce excise duties, or contributions. We're going to deal with the commission just so we don't talk about how to compensate pensioners for 22 billion kuna debt with a fund in which it's possible to give shares for 4.5 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21373	Mr. Representative, this goes beyond measure. Please speak for seven minutes, not to mention the commission at all, but you mentioned seven-eight other topics. In accordance with my position, and Mrs. Opacic's proposal, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21374	I'm asking you to read the phonogram, I've mentioned the commission at least 50 times. We'll talk about the commission just so they don't talk about how the peasants are halved by incentives, how they're late. We'll deal with the commission so they don't say that the craftsmen didn't get a kuna for the first six months of encouragement, of course not even credit lines. We will deal with the commission in order not to mention how the foreign debt of the state has increased by 2 billion and 200 million kuna since 1.1 million this year...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21375	It's not about that. It's about the appointment of the Committee of Research in connection with Victor Lance, and I regret to take your word for it. Please return to your seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21376	But it's gonna be hard, it's gonna be hard.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21377	I take away your word after five of my interventions to stick to the agenda. Mr. Representative, with regrets, I say, I do, but you've really gone too far.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21378	I regret to inform you that I will continue, regardless of your position because you are wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21379	You want to cause an incident here?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21380	No, that's what you want. Totally...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21381	You want to cause an incident...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21382	I'm sure that's what you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21383	I've warned you several times. Please stop your exposure that has nothing to do with what it is, but you mentioned the 10, 15 companies you're looking for. Please ask the commission to investigate these companies. You have every right, gather 16 MPs, and we will form a commission. This is exclusively about the appointment of a committee for "Viktor Lenca," not for all those companies that you are here, persistently returning, actually challenging the chairman to give you this measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21384	Mr. Vice President...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21385	You did it on purpose because after five of my interventions you stayed with yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21386	Mr. Vice President, I remind you that you didn't give me a warning just to warn me that I was going back to the agenda, and you didn't give me any notice. If you'd given me a warning and taken away your word, I'd have realized you were right. But you didn't give me a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21387	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21388	Yeah, so that means that...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21389	Now I'm giving you a heads-up on what you've done so far...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21390	Yeah?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21391	And now I'm gonna pull...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21392	Here, I promise, I promise I'll get better.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21393	And now I'm going to withdraw the word and let you, if I have to, because I've interrupted you for another five minutes. Here, but you got a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21394	Thank you very much. I was surprised by your generosity, so let me continue. Actually, I'd like to point out that Victor Lenac is a bad decision of the former government and I, as a member of that government, of course want to pour ashes. There have been many decisions that have been good, but of course today we won't talk about them. However, it is important to say that this decision was unanimous, it is important to say that it was not possible for individuals to make such a decision and, most importantly, it was made in good faith. Taking care of a thousand employees, taking care of a few dozen co-operatives, taking care of the effects of VAT, profit taxes, contributions because Victor Lenac is not only the top man. Victor Lenac is much more than that. There were also significant shareholders, world-renowned, not to count them now, and so was the lender. They all claimed they would stay at Victor Lenco's, that they would own it and finance it if the government stood by it. That is the only reason why the government is behind it, believing that lack of trade capital is a bad period that can be easily bridged. However, when we in the HSS insist on discussing other companies that have received state guarantees, then I will mention another example from Slavonia. The company Rubik from Vukovar, which has a core capital of 20 thousand kuna, which received a government guarantee of 20 million then-marks. Yeah, that happened, that happened, and the only thing left behind that company was a few thousand tons of old tires still stored in the Vukovar area. Here will be the only political bickering that we former members of the coalition government and the former opposition. However, it is completely unclear why HDZ does not use its other levers because it also has a police office, but of course it does not have the government's opinion on this. We haven't received any government opinion, and it's absolutely certain we won't even get it. And this gentleman sitting here is not presented to us. I don't know if he's a representative of the police, of the lawyers, of the government. It would be convenient to know who he is and what function he's in. But what's absolutely certain is that the solutions to Victor Lenac still do not exist. Strategic investors or investors will continue to wait for the work of this commission to be completed, which will never end as well as all the others we have talked about. So the recovery of Victor Lenca in bankruptcy is probably not going to happen, or there will be liquidation, which is the most likely scenario for Victor Lenac. This is why we propose that the commission deal with all the guarantees issued because there are several thousand of them. We at HSS support such a model of parliamentary investigation, under allegations, but we do not support this kind of politics that is heard here in carrying out alleged arguments that are not in this story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21395	Thank you very much. We have six corrections of incorrect allegations. Please be patient, we'll all take it slow. First came Mr Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21396	... My right afterwards, it's my right after, so I'm gonna use it all for a pay phone. [[Specially enabled.]] Afterwards, after all the corrections, I'll go after the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21397	Thank you. Ivo Lonchar, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21398	My colleague, Pacek, said that the wheat had disappeared in the past period and we had, he said, commissions that had never done anything. Comrade Pacek, that's not true. On my own, my initiative in the previous assembly was founded an investigation committee on the wheat affair of 99 and 2000, which weighed several hundred million kunas. It was a crime you can't remember in this country. I asked the question 16 times to the then president of the Parliament, it seems to me that Mr. Tomcic had been called, and he had various business tricks with the help of your strategic party partner simply refused to speak up. And you know who's to blame for that wheat affair. The then Minister of Agriculture, Mr Pankretic, then Minister of Finance, Mr Churchvenac, then Minister of Economy, Mr Fizulic and the head of supply, Mr Vrana. That robbery, which was several hundred million kunas heavy for her, was responsible for these men headed by then-President of the Parliament, Mr. Tomcic, who did not allow it to come out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21399	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21400	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21401	And you're up? ... Here you go, Mr. Pacek. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21402	Well, Mr. Vice President, you've actually hurt the Rules of Procedure because you've given a fellow MP a talk about what's not a topic. I'm just saying... I just said that the commission had never completed its work, and Mr. counterpart continued with the charges and qualifications, and you allowed him to extend his allegations, to speak of his opinion and thinking which, of course, as most of his in agriculture was completely wrong. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] But I ask you to give a warning to him who came out of the topic and to take away his word as you did to me. Because the fact is that the commission never ended up working, and that's what a colleague who spoke to me before, about it, Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21403	When he's five times gone off topic, then he'll get the same as you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21404	Mr. Vice President, unlike fellow Pecek, I'm going to indicate which articles he hurt. He injured Articles 209 and 214 and you injured Article 209 which you did not warn him about. Let him disprove any of what I said, I'll repeat again, the people I just cited are guilty of this unprecedented crime that then happened with the wheat affair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21405	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21406	Mr. Vice President, this is consistent that a representative whose name I can't remember, according to article 209 of the insult here, he's a judge, judge, and I ask you to remind him of that. This is not the first time, but the second time you have to react after the first time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21407	I don't have to react, I'll react in accordance with the Rules of Procedure when I estimate that there has been an excessive measure of violation of the Rules of Procedure which I have shown... patience when Mr. Pecek spoke here for this speaker. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zastolnik Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21408	Mr. Vice President, I know it's not convenient for you to allow it again, but I know Mr. Pancretic's name as opposed to mine, but that's the syntagma he's using badly because I'm using it for his führer. Thus, he injured Articles 209 and 214. Mr. Vice President, let me speak, the party is upset, I know what I'm saying in this House, and that's how you break the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution because you don't speak Croatian, I can speak German, I know it. So, please, Mr. Vice President, allow me to speak and calm down the party first, the party is upset.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21409	Thank you very much. Are you done?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21410	I'm not finished, let me talk, can I talk? So, Mr. Vice President, I cited the articles that Mr. Pankretić broke and to explain that at that time when the wheat affair occurred Mr. Pankretić sued me, six times it was a hearing, he came only once and I six times and eventually withdrew the lawsuit by saying he would not be tried, because then the truth would come out, thank you very much. I'll get the papers tomorrow and see who's lying to you or me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21411	The breach of the Rules of Procedure doesn't say anything about 6 calls to court, so you're out of the question, but that's the second time, you have more. The violation of the Rules of Procedure of Ms. Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21412	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, I think Articles 209 and 214 have been injured. The Rules of Procedure, and for the reason that the MP here is allowed to slander, accuse and defamation, it is only with one goal to misinformed the public. Since there is no evidence other than unilateral statements about whose credibility we have every reason to doubt, I ask you nicely to protect the dignity of both the Parliament and the MPs and those who voted for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21413	Thank you very much, Mr. Lončar. You have requested a re-injury of the Rules of Procedure, but before I give you my word, I ask that there be no personal insults, if there is any reason to mention the Rules of Procedure, then please state what it was about, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21414	Mr. Vice President, first of all, I will say that my colleague Ljubica Lalić hurt Article 214 and you, with great respect and as a man and now the chairs you're sitting on, you won't tell me what I'm talking about. Everything she said now, it's a lie, there's been an investigative commission, 16 times I asked why she didn't start working, etc., and it's true, and I can bring the documentation that I made and then you'll see who was a criminal in that process. Is it possible for you then to get a job for the purchase of wheat in Croatia company with an account of 1412 kuna and a job worth 600 million kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21415	However, I cannot prescribe to anyone what they will talk about when they report for discussion and when correcting the incorrect assumption because it is a property in the Assembly that can be corrected incorrectly so as to say what they will but can limit the reporting of a breach of the Rules of Procedure if no one is injured, then there is no right to speak of injury if it is not injured. Therefore, I allow you to be right in part or in most cases but not in relation to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. And now, before we move on to correcting the incorrect allegations, I received a notice in the meantime, as Mr. President said he had no government opinion here, he has since 17 September, so there is, and another here is Assistant Minister of Finance Mr. Hrvoje Radovanic, present, you asked who I represent him. Let's move on, correcting the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Branimir Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21416	... I'm on my way to the north, and I have to talk today about clean underpants. Because he listed companies that he pointed out as negative said there were no clean underpants, obviously that they had clean underpants but I think they were very blurry because he skipped mentioning the PIK Vrbovac in which they had just made terrible marifetteluke on the burden of the company and the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21417	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged representative Mr. Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21418	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In a number of incorrect allegations made by Mr. Pecek, I would, however, limit myself to one and that is his statement that this is a purely political case, I would disagree with him and it is not true because, obviously, according to this, everything we've heard from these arguments that in this case Victor Lenac has done a series of crimes and obviously a lot of those things that neither the public nor we in this House know yet, so this commission will have one of the tasks to bring all that was going on under the grain. I would also point out that everything he claimed for these political qualifications was happening but during his coalition, we all remember what kind of banal reasons they filed criminal charges that there were also a number of criminal charges against the management people in companies when they found nothing else, it was a criminal application for the ineligible launch of bankruptcy in the company. I'd like two more words to refer to these underpants Mr. Pecek mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21419	With regard to Mr Pecek's qualifications that it is a political commission, why defend yourself from it, please Mr Pecek is right because any decision to resuscitate or grant funds to cover losses or the like that made by the Government when giving guarantees, except that it is also a political decision, so it is necessary and factual to conclude that these are, in addition to business and political decisions and there is no point in objecting to those qualifications. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21420	Mr. Vice President, you've been commenting normally from this place where you shouldn't, you can pick up, so get out for the pay phone, though it doesn't bother me that much. But I don't mind you saying what I'm supposed to say. No, I didn't say it was a political decision, I said the decision was based on a request where we believed we could recover Viktor Lenac. And every decision of the government is also political. Each one is also political, but this one is not based on politics, but based on the arguments of investors and creditors who were in Viktor Lentz. That was the point of my speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21421	I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, because I found exactly what you said, that every decision except that it is business and political and that, therefore, there is no place, and that I have warned the previous speaker, there is no place to challenge your qualifications that this is also about political decisions. So I don't know why you warned me when I just said what you said. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please refer immediately to the article that is...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21422	Mr. Pacek is...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21423	What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21424	...injured article 209 lifts up a staff injury to the Rules of Procedure, and tells what he wants. So I'd like to ask Mr. President that you give him no word in the future, because he didn't speak any harm to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21425	I will evaluate according to the Rules of Procedure when something is in conformity or not, so trust my judgment until proven wrong. We also have the correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Kruno Markovinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21426	Mr. Vice President. In fact, it's an incorrect claim by the gentleman, I agree with you, because you said the decision was political. But I don't agree that the Commission's work on the work of the Commission will be more politics than expertise. I only agree with Mr. Pecek that he said that the former government was very naive that she believed the statements from Lenco and I agree with him here to not only disagree, that when one day the commission investigates the supply supplies that black chronicles will increase by two pages in all the daily papers. Clearly the past few years have been very lively.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21427	If it's okay with you, then it's not about correcting an incorrect quote, it's about getting along. Please, let's go. Because you insist? Don't insist. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21428	Comrade Pecek probably honestly believes that for these state guarantees the private shipyard was the entire government, because he was also in the government. But trust me, colleague Pacek, it wouldn't have been possible to get this amount of credit if it hadn't been for infrastructure in party and state leadership. Unfortunately, in that government, you just raised your hands, and so, and the party helped your other one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21429	... Besides, you can't claim that Mr. Pecek in that government just raised his hands because you weren't in the government, neither did I. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]] Therefore, please do not disqualify needlessly. I have to say it because it's just like that. And now Maria Byte, Madam Representative Maria Byte, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21430	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for correcting one of Mr. Pecek's incorrect allegations, in which he said that the aim of this investigation committee is political bickering and that it is surprising that the Croatian government does not use the other instruments of the authorities it has. So I would say that this Croatian government does not use the instruments of power the way you expect it to. And that the aim of this committee is to determine the truth and the facts, and whoever has read the proposal of this Commission writes nicely, the aim of researching the Commission's investigation is to identify all facts in connection with the procedure of granting and granting state guarantees to banks for loans to private society Shipyard Viktor Lenac d.d. Rijeka, in particular those guarantees for the approval of loans which are proposed to ensure the return of loans, is based on a maritime good mortgage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21431	Thank you very much. With this, we've now exhausted all the corrections of an incorrect quote. Now again, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Branimir Glavas, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21432	My colleagues and colleagues. Since the business provision allows me to come out and give further explanations, but no, you don't need it, you're all well-known colleagues and colleagues, both from the ruling side and from the opposition, all of these things are familiar, there are no strangers. It's more for our citizens, for taxpayers. Now, I've brought only one piece of prepared documentation to which I served and which I managed to get ahead of this session, given that I've been given the honorary duty of the exhibitor on behalf of the promoter. Well, Mr. Pacek, I understand your concern, you were the Minister of crafts, a little entrepreneurship, or whatever it was called, the documentation with your name also has here. And therefore, if you think that your party will propose you as a member of the Committee, don't think about it, you won't be able to be a member of the Committee, because you are a participant in the procedure that the Committee will need to investigate. So there's your records here, and you're probably measuring on your dirty underpants of other people's underpants, you're probably measuring on your dirty underpants. If you want to get...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21433	Let's not...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21434	...debate on this proposal..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21435	Let's not go to that burden of personal insults, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21436	I'm sorry for the insults. It's the same measure. Mr. Pecek used that term as a former minister. Therefore, suggest what happened in Vrbovac, it was a sphere of responsibility, a zone of responsibility for your party as a coalition partner of the future ruling, or former ruling generation. Suggest what happened in Valpovo, I agree on behalf of this team.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21437	Let's not spread the debate, that's why Mr. Pecek got a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21438	I support answering what Mr. Here's a new Damir novel, for some quasi intellectual services hundreds of thousands of kunas pulled out in Valpova on their knees. Let us also open the debate on Belje, I agree, that the issue of the Supervisory Board which you have appointed as the coalition power to make decisions is answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21439	Second oral warning, going off topic again, I'm gonna have to...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21440	..to approve the administration to pay taxes and contributions and damage the state and the state budget. And to the voice of Slavonia it is unnecessary to speak more. Insinuate all of it to you, insinuate for 15 years, and do nothing about it, keep going. I stick to the subject, motive and the deciding moment why we're going into this is the statement by Mr. Linic, vice president of Racan's government, who says "now I can say that I personally am the one who misjudged the seriousness of the owner of Viktor Lenec, I personally believe that the failure that we tried to save Lenac for so long was our desire to help this shipyard, unfortunately Lenac ended up in bankruptcy because of the misjudgement". The Deputy Prime Minister is not the vice president of the government to give misjudges. The Prime Minister is not the Prime Minister and this government is not the one who makes the wrong estimates, decides on the basis of the wrong failures, the assessment. It is therefore necessary to bear responsibility. The Ministry of Finance sent in a letter to the State Attorney's Office on 16 February 2004 indicated that the Republic of Croatia, according to its bankruptcy debtor, "Viktor Lenac" has claims on behalf of the following commitments, so that it seriously threatens that the Republic of Croatia is damaged and will be permanently damaged, that the taxpayers will be permanently damaged precisely because those who should not have misjudged estimated hundreds, hundreds of millions of kunas placed in pockets, drawers, bags, whatever you want, do not take me by the word, Vrhnik and other shareholders most of the foreigners in "Vicor Lenc". The letter sets out which amounts are based on the Paris Club, the London Club of State Guarantees issued. I'll do it again. It's about the Paris Club 62 million 853 thousand 455 kuna, the London Club million 367, so when added, it's about 64 million kuna and on behalf of the issued state guarantees 256 million kuna. So 320 million kunas like this from the sleeves without calculators and without an analysis of whether there is anything else that we don't know at all at this moment since all this has happened together and that we didn't know about it I wouldn't have dared to predict and assess that this investigative committee will, when it is founded, really have to deal with what is going on and that it will be very, very surprised that everything is happening and that it will answer the question of what is the golden thread that connects the Supreme, Prime Minister Racan and, at the very least, Mr Linic, whether there is something in it Mr. Church, Fižulić, Pecek, I won't sin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21441	Thank you very much. First of all, we have the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Ms. Zeljka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21442	Mr. President, you have injured the Rules of Procedure in Article 214 because you did not give counsel Glavas at least a warning and he deserved it on the basis of this article and not only because he was insulting or reciprocating insults but because he made a threat from this speaker to Agent Pecek, a threat that was said not only a threat but a conviction and a political condemnation without any argument about the guilt of Agent Pecek in the case that is allegedly being debated here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21443	Thank you very much. I didn't say a warning because I warned him twice to get back on the subject, so he came back in the end. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21444	Dear counterpart Antunovic violated the Rules of Procedure in the provision of Article 214 concerning Article 209. The Rules of Procedure say that Mr. Glavas insulted the MP and gave political warnings that were not true. It only warned of a conflict of interest in the sense of whether anyone could be a member of the investigative committee or not, in view of the fact that a substrate is in favour of the reasons for the decision in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21445	Thank you. I'll interpret the Rules of Procedure here while I'm sitting and now he's also reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21446	I've always been a gentlment, giving priority to Mrs. Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21447	There's no advantage but you've spent your right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21448	Then I give up my right and accept a warning you didn't tell me and I'm gonna go for 10 minutes and catch some fresh air, so I'm gonna come back.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21449	You have now earned a reminder, and therefore I pronounce it to you. And more injuries to Mrs Antunovic's Rules of Procedure again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21450	Mr. President, when I report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then I do not communicate and polarise with MPs and their words, but I communicate with you as chairman. I think this time you've allowed my colleague, Agent Tomljanovic, to abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure and to pollomise with me because I wasn't talking about Mr. Glavas, but about the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Glavas doesn't deserve my attention because he talks enough about himself and I'm just asking that you treat Mr. Glavas for making things right now and thank you for treating him just as much as you do by sticking to the Rules of Procedure as you do to all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21451	It is difficult for the Rules of Procedure to stick to the Rules of Procedure because 90% of those who report actually express their opinions, so I did not warn Mr Tomljanovic because I did not warn many others. Mr. Representative Glavas has a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please really concentrate on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21452	I end every controversy with Mrs. Antunovic. I'm not talking about Mrs. Antunovic, I'm talking about facts and it can be planted on the head, and the facts are unobstructed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21453	You did not stick to the Rules of Procedure because Mrs Antunovic did not hurt the Rules of Procedure. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. Madam Representative Dear Zgrebec, come in!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21454	I'm correcting the inaccuracies of Agent Glavas that fellow Pecek cannot be a member of the investigative committee, which is incorrect. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on investigative committees says it can only be representatives of the parliament and that the decision determines their composition and which must correspond roughly to the party composition of the House of Parliament. Therefore, MP Glavas is appointed Supreme Judge, he accuses and immediately sentences fellow Peceku, and even determines who can and who cannot be a member of the executive commission and whom the assembly clubs will propose to the executive commission. Mr. Vice President, it's inadmissible behavior from my colleagues, and I think he deserves a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21455	Any representative has the right to express his opinion on who or might not be in a commission, so Mr. Glavas can also have his opinion, but he will determine the Parliament and decide the parliament. There is still a correction to the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21456	I want to correct one factually incorrect assumption. In the same way, the proponents of this point were quoted on the basis of newspaper quotes and from another context that the government had made the wrong decision because it had misjudged it. The government did not misjudge, but the government also made a decision to issue guarantees on the basis of a predetermined investment project that ensured multiple growth in export revenues and increased employment followed by private banks and international financial institutions as well. Therefore, the government may have made the wrong decision but not on the basis of political will, but on the basis of the expertly proposed draft.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21457	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21458	Mrs. Zgrebec has injured Rules of Procedure 209, 214, would you like more members? Mrs. Zgrebec, I do not condemn Mr. Pecek, but Mr. Pecek, as minister, has participated in this, signed certain documents and can therefore not be a member of the future commission. He'll be a witness, he'll be the person who comes before the committee. I don't do anything... to Mr. Pecek. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21459	I don't know what article, why, I don't know, here's a corrected opinion. Therefore, there is now Mr. Pecek's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21460	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, I'm not going to tell you articles that are hurt because it's much more important than Mr. Glavas talking about me, I don't want to be a member of that committee at all. Second. I didn't sign anything for Victor Lentz, that's for sure. And a third. I don't insist on Mr. Glavas getting a warning, even if he deserves it because these are dirty lies. Otherwise, I take his presentations as quite inconclusive and this claim that I was involved in anything and that I would like to be in the committee categorically saying no. That's not what I want, but I'd like to be in that commission by 2000 when private companies are granted guarantees for 10 billion kuna, that's what I'd like to be, in such a commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21461	Unfortunately, it's not on the agenda, so suggest so it will be. Look, I think that someone now, to whom to share a warning or not, I think here in the Assembly that the institute of reminders is so much, that so I say becomes something that no one takes into account at all or has any effect, maybe we should question that institute at all to see what it is, what the purpose of it is. But if it can satisfy you not only have you but also he's got one warning so that's about it. Now we're going to an individual debate of 10 minutes. First came Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21462	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I have to say that I'm a little embarrassed to be involved in a debate that's been going on since this morning at such a low level. This low level of exposure immediately, and in fact, throughout today's debate, the proponent of this point is trying to maintain itself. Hey, we're talking a little bit about the point. The point is, what's the purpose of the Assembly's investigation committee, otherwise, not just this one but any one? To question some issue that is of public interest. The Council, according to its constitutional functions, controls the government. Therefore, the establishment of the Investigative Commission should be one of Parliament's instruments in control of the government. This parliamentary commission is based on a proposal from the parliamentary majority. There's a little strangeness. Because the parliamentary majority forms the current government, and the current government has the instruments of power. And she can solve any, any problem through the institutions of the system and she doesn't need any parliamentary commission. It is more appropriate for the opposition to propose the establishment of such parliamentary committees in order to control the current power. You see, in the light of this proposal, 5 it is said that this commission is tasked with determining all the circumstances in which the privatisation of the Shipyard was carried out. A little above, a sentence above that the law has been broken. Look, if it is, if the law is broken, then you have to file charges. It was insinuated by many advocates that numerous crimes were committed. Look, if anyone knows that criminal offences have been committed, they have to file a criminal report. If someone knows a criminal offence has been committed and does not file criminal charges, they commit a criminal offence. Therefore, 16 HDZ deputies, if they know that a criminal offence has been committed, commit a criminal offence for not reporting it. And with their signatures for a proposal to set up this investigative commission they claim, they confess and they here say that a number of crimes have been committed. I support the establishment of this committee because I believe there is indeed a public interest in lighting Victor Lenac. But the way this commission proposes to be established. The explanation written and read, the behaviour of Mr. Glavas's proponent in this assembly all says that this is actually about a completely undiscovered, publicly shown political account. Why am I saying that? On page 6 you have the aim of research, so it is well said that the aim of the research is to identify all facts regarding the procedure of granting and granting state guarantees. And on page four, the same argument is said that the granting of state guarantees to Viktor Lenac Shipyard for loans needed by his private owners was approved by the Government at the request of the primary owner of Damir Vrhnik, whose friendly and party ties with Prime Minister Ivica Racan Vice President Slavko Linic and Finance Minister Mato Church enabled him to obtain credit from banks. A to p. 5, a model of party and personal commission was applied by the government in providing guarantees. So look, commissions are set up to determine if this is true, whether guarantees are given because of party and friendly relationships. And that's said in order, that's the aim of the investigation committee, to determine it. And in an explanation, it's claimed that's exactly what happened. Therefore, this argument is already reaching its final goal, the announced objective of the draft committee, which is to establish that the guarantee is given by friendly and party ties. Well, the one who suggested this wasn't even intelligent enough to write maybe to determine if it's true, but he claims it's true. That doesn't even have to prove it, it comes from an explanation, and that's what the proposer here repeats on several occasions. What is the measure of this, these points of today's agenda? Founding a commission. So is anyone against it? No club has objected to that. No one opposes this, but in a debate on behalf of the motionors and later on, other MPs do not discuss whether to set up a committee whose establishment is not opposed. Rather, the convictions are given in advance, the definitive courts, are found by the committee. The request is illogical, at least an explanation. So, for example. On page 7, it reads: "The investigation should start from the first issue of the state guarantee.". But page five says that all the circumstances in which the privatisation of the shipyard was carried out are to be determined. Well, God's people, the privatisation of the shipyard was way ahead of the first guarantee. What will this commission be led by? Whether it will come from privatisation or from issuing the first guarantee. Perhaps because the work of this Committee will, in this time of privatisation, also, sound good to me to the HSS proposal to establish a commission that would deal with the examination of all guarantees made by the governments of the Republic of Croatia from 1990 to today. To determine how many guarantees there are. We heard there were over 1,000 of them. Who were they given to? We heard they were also given to privates. So this isn't any special or isolated case. Let's hear how many of those privates were given guarantees failed. And let's hear in the end how much money has been spent, how much money has fallen, and we hear it's 10 billion kuna. This can be a serious issue of an investigative commission that would not be a political reckoning, so that we can possibly change the Guarantee Act, about giving guarantees. If we see that money is so wasted. But I doubt that's gonna happen. This commission is likely to remain as imagined. It will therefore be one of the most ordinary political and political courts. But since the promoter has shown to all his statements that he is able to be objective, impartial, raised, cultural, decent gentleman, I suggest him to be a member of that committee, and preferably the president of that committee, because I am sure that it will only meet the purpose for which it is established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21463	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21464	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Stazic, claimed that no parliamentary commission should be established. Well, I think we should start a parliamentary commission. At the very beginning he hardened, then he... And Mrs. Zgrebec said in front of the club that she agrees with... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21465	Leave Mrs. Zgrebec alone. Correct the incorrect quote of a fellow representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21466	That's exactly what I'm doing because then it's not a clear position of the SDP Club whether or not a commission should be set up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21467	Honorable representative Maria Byte. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21468	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Stazic has said in a number of incorrect allegations that the establishment of an investigative commission is a clear political account. This is an incorrect allegation because the Commission's aim is to identify all facts regarding the procedure for granting state guarantees to banks, and the Commission will determine whether the model of party or personal friendship has been applied by the former Government in granting guarantees for loans without legal and value coverage. The investigation committee will determine the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21469	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21470	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Stazic said: 16 MPs from the HDZ ranks have signed a criminal offence. It's an absurd notorious lie. The initiative that originated from our deputies is heading towards the lighting of the former government's absolutely dubious affairs when it comes to the transfer of state money means taxpayers' money to a private company if in that case “Viktor Lenca”. It is unimaginable that without economic assessment and assessment, the government can transfer hundreds of millions to any company even if it is owned by it, let alone, let alone, if it is a private company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21471	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21472	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The first thing to say is that the Croatian public has the right to know the truth in all situations of possible suspicious transactions, the work of this government or that government. But today's debate on the “Vicor Lenac” Commission is about the fact that there are already two truths. One truth advocated by HDZ and a group of 16 MPs who submitted the proposal, and the debate shows that their truth is such that the former government has violated its powers and is in fact already responsible for it. The second truth here is trying to tell us by SDP and HSS, or those who participated in the government that everything was right and clean. And in all this, when it comes from such two positions, it is difficult for the public to get the truth if they are not right in the commission. Because in all such situations, we are the only ones who can determine the truth. Not the truth that will correspond to the left or right of this assembly, but the truth based on facts and on what is contained in each case. And that is why we also accept that we are taking part in this Committee so that the public in full terms of the word will know that truth but we expect all investigative committees to be supported in this House, so any topic is because that is how we will fulfil our obligation as representatives of the Croatian Parliament and our debt to the voters. There are a lot of situations at this point where research commissions should really be formed. We heard about government guarantees by 2000, but we should first make a list of all guarantees and set up one investigative commission for all guarantees that the state gave on behalf of the taxpayer, whether they were in the name of the taxpayers or whether they were private-owned companies. We know what the situation was, how much money was invested in bank recovery and everything. But let's face it, what's the public interested in now? The public is interested in, say, forming an investigative commission regarding the selection of court practitioners. There's a lot of talk about it, but no one can talk about it. That's where Parliament could do it right now. The justice minister once says one thing, the second time says another, the third time says third time. So there's a public interest in knowing if what's written in the press is true, how are the court practitioners chosen. I even heard the version that one of the children of the deceased parents was not chosen in such competitions. There is further, it could also be determined by the commission in which way...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21473	A colleague of Kovačević please do one thing. Like all the other MPs. The law on investigating committees determines that an investigative commission is established by the Parliament's decision, an investigative commission can be established for each specific question. The establishment of an investigative committee may be proposed by the working body of the House of Parliament or at least 1/10 of the total number of representatives of the House. Here, 1/10 MPs of the House proposed for a specific round of issues of the investigation committee. Any representative under the Law on the Investigation Commission may propose to a working body which is a member to draw conclusions proposing to the House of Parliament the establishment of an investigative committee and on such proposals to be decided by Sab or by most of the votes of its representatives. So please limit yourself to this investigative committee. On the initiatives, on proposals for the establishment of investigative committees for the second round of questions, you are entitled to propose the right and any representative to a working body that you are a member of a proposal for the establishment of an investigative committee or that 1/10 MPs propose the establishment of an investigative committee for any other round of issues. Let us not now talk about what is not the subject of this proposal – Decisions to set up an investigative commission. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21474	The point is, too, what I'm saying is that we need to agree here that in all situations we will support the investigative committees so that the public knows the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21475	We can't agree on that, dear colleague. If someone submits a proposal for the establishment of an investigative committee, according to the law on investigative committees, the President of the Assembly is obliged to place it on the front of the agenda. And it could not be agreed in advance that we would maintain the establishment of any initiative by anyone to maintain the investigative establishment of the investigative committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21476	So you're not interested in the truth in the case of selection of trainees.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21477	It's not true, I beg you nicely, about possible initiatives, you can file them. And this will be decided by the Croatian Parliament after the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21478	Look, you're now turning the public's attention to just one fact, one point to one investigative commission. And the public's interest is far greater.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21479	If you have any intention of proposing something else to set up an investigative commission. And now, please, let's limit ourselves to this topic is a proposal for a decision to set up an investigation into the guarantee committee for d.d. Viktor Lenac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21480	My suggestion is to extend this decision to these things that I'm talking about. And then it's normal according to this agenda point. As part of this, in the investigation committee, the mandate to determine the choice, how to make the selection of trainees. To determine how Dunja Zloic could become unspective in the Ministry of Defence has completed college, three languages. TO DETERMINATE BEHTEL. I'm looking for an extension.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21481	It's not possible, it's not possible to run the law because it's according to Article 3. The law for each specific question is based on a special investigative commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21482	You got it. It doesn't have to be special. I want to put all the questions in one place.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21483	You can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21484	Possibly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21485	Because there must be an initiative for others.../The speakers speak out loud.....you can't and please stick to this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21486	Here you are now taking five minutes to warn me of that part. And I propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that jurisdiction be extended in all of this, and you do not allow me to talk about it. And I have the right to say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21487	You can start the initiative. And now you can talk about this proposal for this investigation committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21488	Well, that's what I'm talking about all the time. But I also want to expand, that's what it means. The amendment can also be given in this section. It means there's an extension of jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21489	I remind you again which is the legal provision of Article 3. The law on investigative credentials.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21490	I say, so I say again that I suggest that it expand as part of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21491	You cannot propose to expand because the proposal is set out correctly by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21492	But the debate isn't over yet. It's not a vote. Now let's focus on this part. Let's now analyze the legal and how we want such a proposal when we ask for the establishment of an investigative commission, as it suggests. He casts doubt on the work of the authorities. In this case it means MUPA, State's Attorney's Office, Hoping or some of the other authorities of the state, the authorities in whose jurisdiction it is. And it's logical that whether a representative of the government says it's a government or someone from a judicial body, which has taken into account everything that we know so far has been established and given anything at all. So that already raises doubts about their work. Secondly, if it is not so I agree that the committee t reba, gave the purpose of establishing a commission to help divide the competent authorities, which should process something, they gave in obstruction, they gave them political pressures or other things. Because all of our situations with the establishment in Croatia have ended with a fiasco. We remember the case, first it was a commission to exclude the weapons of territorial defense, then it was the Fox case, so there were various cases, and nothing was ever known about it. We also see in the papers today that the data leaks, the report is published..., our proposal has never been accepted that the Committee on National Security and this Parliament discusses it. Therefore, all this and this debate seem to me to be political speculation with this commission. And that's the worst part. That's why I said we plead afterwards, that the public always finds out the truth, but to agree here for the sake of the public, for the sake of the Croatian voters, that in all situations where true truth is needed. Let's remember how Americans do it. Aafera Watergate, Monica Levinski's case, has all been investigated and checked, competent and determined. In fact, Nixon had to resign. Thus, in all situations it is necessary not to let a proposal pass, and some will not pass because someone likes it or does not like it. So we have an obligation to the public, we determine the truth, but apparently the real truth in this assembly... Just do it, because you hear the President of the Parliament doesn't say it either. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21493	The President of the Parliament does not prevent the opening of the truth. And I suggest to you what I have already said several times, both to you and to other MPs, who wants to propose in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure, the establishment of an investigative committee has a free pass with a number of signatures or clubs, so the Parliament will discuss. I'm the only one who can, and I have to put it on the agenda. What will be the decision on a single proposal, and this proposal will also depend on the majority of the total number of MPs in this House who will vote on it. We'd like to take a break by 3:00. And the first in line after the break is the respected representative Jelena Pavicic's Vukicevic. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. I'd like an honorary representative of the Jelena Pavicicu Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21495	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, given everything we've already had a chance to hear today, I can't help but think that this topic is still on schedule today so that we don't discuss any other topics. On topics such as the IMF, on topics such as economic policy, and if, of course, this topic on the establishment of a commission, the Research Commission in relation to the Lenac case, I consider nothing less important. In any case, I am particularly pleased that Mr. Glavas is present at the assembly right now, for the reason that I would most like to refer this very personal discussion to him. Of course, I don't have to say any particular reasons, we've had Mr. Glavas' opportunity to hear in this morning's time. Actually, Mr. Glavas, I'd like to tell you directly that the government of Ivica Racan is both responsible and guilty, because she tried to save the existence of 10,000 people from the Rijeka region, and it's employees of "Lance" and members of their families. So are the cooperatives of "Lance" and members of their families. I may not know personally about these topics discussed today, such as ultimately the conditions under which state guarantees are given, but I can certainly say something else from one personal perspective. At a time when, for example, Ankica Tudjman started the Foundation to save children of Croatia, workers of "Ferimport" under bankruptcy, protested against bankruptcy with banners "saving children "Ferimport". Ferimport is, as you know today in the liquidation process...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21496	Comrades, please, let's leave Ferimport and anything else. I ask all MPs again I will not allow you to step away from the topic and connect with other things trust me to none, to anyone from any party, so please stick to the topic and do not go to anything else that is not related.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21497	It's just a parallel. I'm really not gonna get off the subject. The theme is the Investigative Commission, the subject is the Lenac case, all that is related to the Lenac case could be heard at the end of the day, but unfortunately too little was heard about the biggest problem, and this is the problem of the existence of workers, the problem of all those who are indirectly or directly related to Lenac. Before, here's what I was interrupted, I was actually going to say that all the workers in any company in Lenca, regardless of what kind of ownership structure is, who was politically motivated in one way or another, or politically responsible for covering these or those things, that people simply mattered to their existence, and I think that in today's debate, we must also, regardless of the legal or economic indicators, stick to these topics. I'm talking about the reason why these questions naked existence is definitely something that everyone has to be in the first place and even when we're talking about the problems that are here and now they're in the first place. Namely and the workers, but also the cooperatives of "Lance" certainly listen to today's debate in the Assembly, and I dare say that they certainly do not trust their own ears and political friendships, and about Racan, Linic, Church and Vrhovnik. I think actually this whole problem is what's the least burdening the workers of Lance. I also believe that the government of Ivica Racan as responsible for trying to save the existence of all these people, all 10 thousand people who are in any way related to the fate of Lenca, and also members of the government who tried to do something, tried to make the most of it to be resolved in a favourable way, that they should today still say that they gave their maximum. The government, the government that is responsible, can only be responsible for its citizens if it acts that way. And for that reason, the SDP Club also made it clear today that this Commission of Investigation should be established, that all facts should be established, and I believe that this investigation committee will show that the government of Ivica Racan had nothing to be ashamed of or to be ashamed of, or to hide anything about this case, but I thought it important that at least today someone in the first place pointed out all these people who are watching this transmission today and who expect us to say something about their personal problems, I said the problems of naked existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21498	Thank you very much. Now we have seven corrections of incorrect allegations and one replica. I again urge MPs to also correct incorrect allegations to correct incorrect factual claims. I repeat, incorrect factual claims which it considers to be incorrect from the presentation of a representative whose incorrect claim is disputed. To any representative who does not hold to correct, in his opinion, incorrect factual claims, not expressed opinions or views, I will share a warning. Correction of an incorrect quote, the first and most respected representative of Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21499	Dear colleagues, I must correct your incorrect allegations, and your incorrect quote is that the government has taken care of 10,000 workers from the Rijeka region to solve this issue of existence in such a way that it was those funds that were not meant to be directed towards the care of 10,000 workers, i.e. you probably thought of members of their families. It's just not true. You mentioned that the government took care of the cooperative workers and their families. That's just not true either. That's what I said in my presentation, that the government only cared about buying social peace in Rijeka, to justify hundreds of millions of kunas that it had placed on the private and party lines to Mr. Vrhnik and a team of foreigners, foreign owners of the Shipyard around it and to avoid or in some way manipulate workers, so that there would be no rebellion, social revolt and riots in Rijeka that would be directed at Linić, Racan and...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21500	Thank you very much. Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Drmic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21501	I would correct the inaccuracy of my colleague, the same quote Mr. Glavas corrected, so the government was focused on saving workers and their existence. I don't think that's true, it's true that what you can see from these unquestionable facts is that money that wasn't meant for it, taxpayers' money ended up in Victor Lenc, and it's questionable whether it went to workers' salaries at all, and it's very likely that it ended up in the pockets of the owners of that company. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21502	Thank you. Frano Matušić, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21503	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague said that neither workers nor creditors really care who's there for who's doing what. However, they are very interested that you have read their appeal specifically, the appeal of the believer in February of this year, which was published in the "New List", you might see that they are very interested in why the Supreme of Laughing from his comfortable villa to those same cooperatives who have failed due to non-payment, due to the failure to comply with the obligation towards them for which the Government allegedly gave money. However, most of these cooperatives simply came into a situation to fail because that money was not received and the question really is where that money went and it is crucial for this investigative commission to determine the fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21504	Thank you. A further correction by the respected representativeplatmir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21505	Mr. President, the inaccuracy of the colleague is that the government of Ivica Racan gave the loans and guarantees to "Lance" because of the workers. If she wanted it, then after the loss that Lenac achieved with the 30 million-dollar Kraka ship, she wouldn't have given credit for development plans that were actually adventurous but would have referred them to cost cuts and production at that level they had at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21506	Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic, a correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21507	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, so I apologize, but I repeat the incorrect assumption. So the government of Ivica Racan tried to save 10,000 employees and members of their family. That's not true if the government tried to save these people then reality and really wouldn't be like this, then Victor Lenac wouldn't be bankrupt. It is true that these guarantees and that the money went into the private pockets of people around Mr. Vrhnik and the members of the former government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21508	And finally the seventh, distinguished representative Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21509	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pavicic said the government of Ivica Racan was concerned about 10,000 people, which is incorrect for two reasons. At the very least, one reason Victor Lenac never had more than 1200 workers and another thing, it is true that the fat benefits of these huge guarantees and money had only management and owners, not workers and co-operatives and suppliers were played through bankruptcy, and thus the tragedy was greater that we spent so much money on so few workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21510	And the esteemed representative Markovinović because he's registered here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21511	Mr. President, it is incorrect that colleagues who listen to this debate are not burdened with Mr. Vrhovnik and his relations with Racan's government. They are quite burdened to see what's left of the shipyard, and how Mr. Vrhovnik got rich and what the expensive government has done to tolerate and enjoy the yacht there on the island of Pag and its surroundings.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21512	Thank you very much. Replicated representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21513	Mr. President, I don't know where Mrs. Pavicic's comparison from, the Croatian Children's Foundation with Fairimport and their children's "Save the Children of Croatia". The Foundation for Children of Croatia is a humanitarian organisation, founded in 1990 during the Homeland War, assisted and cared for thousands of children of Croatian dead Croatian defenders, with the help of children with a multi-member family, a poor family. Since the work of the Croatian Children's Foundation can be obtained on the website. I'm the vice president of the Foundation. Anything you're interested in, you can get. The Foundation at the end of the year gives its reports to the relevant institutions under the Foundations and Associations Act, humanitarian associations in Croatia, both the work and the financial report, so here I am at your disposal whenever you want, I will tell you everything about the Croatian Children's Foundation. So when you compare something, then you have to compare something that helps you to your discussion, not how many of your colleagues have reported to you for correcting an incorrect quote, which is why you cannot assess whether it is correct or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21514	Thank you. Replicate reply, respected representative Jelena Pavicicu Vukičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21515	Well, in any case, the link is bankruptcy, and I couldn't elaborate it until the end because Mr. President warned me that I couldn't talk about "Lance" in my debate about another company, so I broke up here. And by the way, as far as bankruptcy is concerned, I'm afraid you've looked at bankruptcy and the problems of workers who work in such companies only on television, and some of us have lived in such families.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21516	You have no right to go any further. Proposer, respected representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21517	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, so here I am going to introduce you to something else, which I did not have a chance to present in this morning's presentation, which is with the find of the State Audit on the legality of the procedure for authorising the use of state guarantees and the unintended use of funds from the state budget invested in the Shipyard "Viktor Lenac". Well, according to the provisions of the Law on State Audit, it is known to everyone that this audit was carried out and that the finding was presented to the Croatian Assembly. However, in the sea of the problems of the audits, it was normally not well or poorly processed. The audit concerned the investment of the state budget for the period 2001 to 2003. The audit covers the application of legal provisions relating to the approval of state guarantees, loans and subsidies from the state budget, i.e. from the beneficiaries of the state budget and the non-intentional use of funds. In the opinion of the State Audit Office in the approval of State guarantees, the following derogations from the law have been established. The approval of guarantees in 2003 was not in line with the criteria laid down in the decision on the criteria for the granting of State guarantees, as the shipbuilding site dealt with losses, did not meet the obligations under previously issued guarantees but were already covered by the State budget in majority and foreign ownership, which, according to the criteria set out in the above decision, should affect the non-delivery of guarantees. The subsidies were granted even though no evidence was collected, whether there was a shipbuilding site of unmistakable liabilities to the state, and on 31 December 2002 there were commitments of 23 million 509 thousand 497 kuna 76 limes relating to loans from the Paris Club, which were paid by the Ministry of Finance instead of the shipyard. The subsidy in the name of the changed ship "Kristina" on probably "Nazis" is calculated for a million and 523 thousand 933 kuna 64 lipe more because it is calculated on contracted rather than on the realised price of works. The 2002 documentation shows that the shipyard is a private-owned share company of 60.6% of shares, 27.2% of shareholders from the Netherlands, 17.7% of the US International Financial Corporation, 9.3% of shareholders from Germany, 6.4% of the shipping company from Liberia, Raiffeisenbank Austria from Croatia has 12.5%, one company from Croatia IHF d.o.o. 4.2%, and other shareholders 22.7% of whom were both the main character and the main role of all these riots that took place thanks to the Croatian government, and this is Mr. Vrhnik. According to reviews by the Ministry of Finance in the period from the end of 2001 to the end of 2003, 12 state guarantees of 41 million 685 thousand and 458 euros and 7 million 193 thousands and 120 US dollars were issued for the shipyard. In total, converted into kunas 364 million kuna 826 thousand 430 kuna and 02 June, of which 3 financial guarantees amounting to 38 million euros were issued, olithing 283 million and 761 thousand kuna, and 9 censures of almost 3 million and 700 thousand euros and almost 7 million and 200 thousand US dollars, respectively, over 81 million kuna. No new guarantees were issued during 2004 until the shipbuilding site was audited. At the end of 2003, 9 guarantees amounted to 41 million and 685 thousand euros and 2 million and 350 thousand US dollars, respectively 327 million and 480 thousand 596 kuna, 64 June, of which 3 financial guarantees amounting to 38 million euros were poured at 283 million 761 thousand kuna and 6 censures of almost 700 thousand euros and almost 2 million and 500 thousand US dollars. There are indicators that speak clearly about what the State Audit has found, what illegalities it has found in the non-intentional spending and use of funds from the State budget invested in the form of state guarantees, but guarantees that have come or come for payment, and they will all come from the "Vicor Lenac Shipyard". Therefore, dear gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, it is more than obvious that there is a truly justified reason to move forward with this commission. My suggestion and my suggestion would be that this debate is slowly coming to an end because from the exits of individual club representatives no one really has anything against that commission. So let's go to work, agree the commission because from the quoted statement by Mr Linic that he misjudged the owners of Lenco, and that he himself was the one who misjudged and misjudged, I can add a statement from the Prime Minister, former Prime Minister Racan, Mr Ivica Racan from 2 August 2004, also a publication in the "New List", where Mr Racan says to the journalist's question: "has your government been wrong to provide such guarantees for the maintenance of the "Viktor Lenac Shipyard"?". Mr. Racan, the former prime minister, answers, quotes: "Yes, it is a mistake from the point of view of the final result because these guarantees did not help. If you knew in advance how your good attempt to save jobs would end, you wouldn't do it. But it is the government's duty to save the jobs of Croatian workers, and as you know, we are being pressured to help. It was seen that irresponsible owners also conditionaled their additional investments on government guarantees. So it was logical that we tried to save jobs, but from the point of view of the final result it could be said that it was a mistake." So, Mr. Racan admits his mistake. Mr. Racan has little mixes of pears and apples and tries these almost 4 hundred million kunas that the government has placed in a private company to his party and private friend, Mr. Vrhnik, to justify them in a way that is directed to social care of workers. It's just not true, it's not true. The government is bound and passed, as well as the current care for the social care of all workers, not only "Vicor Lenca" but all workers in the Republic of Croatia, and they have my personal full support. But this is done through social programs that must be prepared, quality social programs, to allocate money from the budget for the social care of workers and their families, not to place them to private companies, private, physical persons, and also to their personal friends, their personal hosts in any kind of tourist sailing throughout our beautiful Adriatic. And we have witnessed that Mr. Vrhnik has often hosted both Mr. Racan and Mr. Linic and other senior officials from the Croatian government and SDP in the past. The only question is whether he paid it out of his pocket or whether it was paid out of the hundreds of millions that the government transferred to Victor Lance's account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21518	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21519	Mr. Representative Glavas declares that Mr. Ivica Racan is the one who financed the Supreme State money and provided him with the money. I am correcting the incorrect allegation that the guarantee decision was made by the Croatian Government and the money was used to solve the difficult situation in "Viktor Lenc" and to try to preserve a thousand jobs directly employed in the shipyard and a thousand operatives. Therefore, the government's decisions were not given money to Vrhnik as pointed out by a Mr. MP who obviously wants to judge here, who obviously has a purpose here to present his thoughts, but not the exact allegations. It's for saving the fallen shipyard.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21520	Thank you. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21521	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I must immediately say that I am joining, among other things, and because of our public because it is obvious that it is partly thanks to the media and misinformed. The position of the SDP Representatives Club that we in principle support the establishment of an investigative commission on any issue of public interest, so, if it is for this, they have acquired legal and other opportunities, and for Victor Lenac. And there is no statement, that is, that is, a position passed by HINA that the opposition is fiercely against the Commission for Victor Lenac. Why would I say that if the legal conditions were met? Because I have to doubt this proposal because it seems to me that this proposal is completely premature. So I have no objection that, when the terms of this proposal are obtained, not only the debate but also the establishment of an investigative commission, but it is obvious, given the legal possibilities, that it is premature. I would like to remind myself that the Law on the Investigation Commissions is explicitly prescribed, and I quote: "The investigation committee cannot be founded on the issues on which the judicial procedure has been initiated so long as the proceedings are pending." There is no doubt that bankruptcy proceedings are also judicial proceedings and there is no doubt that all these issues, from the issues of owners, creditors, debtors, claims, fees, etc., which are listed in the Proposal for the establishment of the Investigation Commission, should in fact be taken care of and cared for primarily by the creditors, and, of course, by the bankruptcy manager and the Court of Auditors of the Three Judges, as prescribed by the Law. At the very end of the line in the Republic of Croatia, I fear that if we formed an investigative committee to put ourselves in a position to conduct parallel proceedings on the same issues, and that they might also be affected by the autonomy of courts. For strict reasons, I must say that by following the motions that may be proposed, and I am afraid that this proposal is actually more motivated by political goals and interests than by questions relating to lawfulness or legal procedure, which is explicitly prescribed by law. Another thing I would like to point out is that I cannot agree that the issues that individual bodies or individual bodies decide on, and also the consequences and also the responsibility that arises, and can be transferred to the individual or individual persons who are members of that body, such as those here, are constantly trying to impute responsibility for this decision to the former Prime Minister, Ivica Racan, Deputy Prime Minister Slavko Linic, Minister of Finance Mr. Church, and I think that the Minister of Economy Mr. Fizulic. According to the law on the implementation of the budget and the decision itself on the criteria for granting state guarantees that the Government had to make under the Budget Law, such a decision may be taken on guarantees only by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a collective body and, if it wants to form an investigative commission, it must, in fact, cover the entire former government and discuss issues which are related in this regard. Of course, individual responsibility in preparing such a decision... the consequences do not have to be equally distributed within the members of the Government but the fact is that no individual, not two, three individuals, but the collective body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and we had the opportunity to hear from one member of the former Government of the Republic of Croatia in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament that this decision was taken unanimously. Thirdly, it is very interesting to me that the request to the investigating committee appears just at the time when the possibility of selling parts of Viktor Lenco's assets is actually opening up the possibility of paying off the other... the creditors bringing the state into a position to become the sole owner of Viktor Lenco. Although all the analyses show that Viktor Lenac has enough market and that, in fact, if he was the sole owner, he could go into privatisation, open a whole series of issues, not only to save Viktor Lenac and existing employees through.... but to open the possibility of creating jobs, re-employment and expanding jobs. The fact is that it is clear to everyone that the question of Viktor Lenco was, in fact, at stake, because... the funds had become insufficient and that far more basic assets had been invested or reinvested by this company which could not monitor its obligations, especially for reasons of the return and service of credit... Fourthly, it is unacceptable to set the time limit for the examinations to be covered since 5 July 2001, as the promoter says, while at the same time putting into question certain issues which have not been resolved in time since 2001 on the ground but long ago, such a question is actually property of the maritime well-being resulting in the conversion and privatisation of Viktor Lenac and the consent of the then privatisation agency, which gave such opportunity in the part of the maritime goods as most people consider it, and the applicants themselves are listed as Viktor Lenac as the owner. And only on such property that was entered could it actually establish a mortgage, therefore, if the issue were to be covered and personally I would not have anything against the fact that such a question was investigated then it is absolutely certain that it must be a far longer period of action and business and not only of business activity of Viktor Lenc but also of a complete process of conversion and privatisation covered by Viktor Lenac and, in this context, actually examine who made it possible and in what way Victor Lentz, or in conversion to become the owner of parts, on the means that are... Of course, there is also a matter to be discussed in this respect, which is with the mortgage that was registered on something that could not have been entered, and why the competent state authorities before and now have not yet initiated the procedure that this part of the property that by nature of things cannot be owned by anyone is actually disputed that the judgment on the basis of the judgment will be established and not on the basis of speculation, guessing and our perception to determine whether it belongs to or does not belong to the legal person Viktor Lenac, the company now in bankruptcy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Fifth, which I would also have to point out in particular, is a situation that clearly points to the fact that the debate on the ownership of Viktor Lenco in the maritime sector is a good thing that draws attention from the fundamental issues that are related to Viktor Lenac and the business decisions that the administration at the time led, or now run by the bankruptcy manager because we must not forget that production in Viktor Lenca d.d. The bankruptcy continues, however limited, but at the same time the 550 workers continue their work and continue to work with Viktor Lenca, and that Victor Lenac, in part and from the current production, serves the obligations he has towards the faithful not only the believers but also the state in that part of the law in bankruptcy. In such a situation, the question arises, in fact, what we will get with such an investigative committee, whether we will come up with a truth that may be at the expense of Viktor Lenac and all the employees of Viktor Lenac and all of us, or we can get something else from a team of more interested strategic partners who could invest in Viktor Lenac and even more of them who are interested in buying land in Matišica or land on which Viktor Lenac is located, an industrial seaport... Clearly, in such a situation, we can only cause harmful consequences. And there remains an additional question to object to this formal legal decision. The decision itself is partly in line with the law on the investigative commission, but unfortunately it is missing from the aspect of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, because, in addition to this Decision, there must be another decision, and I remind you that we have changed the Constitution and that in Article 91, in addition to the investigative committee,... has its own composition, partial powers in accordance with the Law, and this is prescribed by this decision that the Assembly also makes a decision on the election of the President of the Research Commission, and most of the votes of all MPs, such a proposal for a decision is not given and that the president of the investigative committee must be forced by the Constitution of the opposition. Therefore, that part in this section is, if, in the light of the legal regulation of the Law on Investigation Commissions at all, I remind you that it prohibits the formation of the investigation committees...the judicial procedure is still ongoing because the bankruptcy proceedings in Viktor Lenc, I would be happy that he was terminated, that Viktor Lenac would have saved that the people who work there stayed at work and everything else, but when he had not already finished until the trial, the bankruptcy proceedings could not be completed, there could be an investigative commission which certainly did not cross this House. That already when we have a proposal on an investigative committee, we do not discuss this issue because it is good to hear different opinions on these issues, provided that it does not affect the judicial authority and its autonomy to carry out a bankruptcy procedure in accordance with the law, protecting the interests of the credentials and, of course, to the extent that it is possible to protect the interests of the debtors above all, assuming that the greater number of people who are employed in Viktor Lenco remain working in Viktor Lenac and that Viktor Lenac out of bankruptcy comes out of bankruptcy as a legal person who can continue to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21522	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21523	Mr. President. Kolega Arlovic said that the SDP supports the establishment of investigative committees on all issues that are of public interest, however, it is simply not true, to prove it is not true I will remind you that in the past SDP, it was in fact the establishment of an investigative commission on the sale of Excelsior Hotel in Dubrovnik and the hotel was sold to another friend of Linic, a colleague of Arlovic, and therefore you prevented this investigation commission from being established precisely by you in the previous meeting, so SDP. Therefore, it is incorrectly your commitment to inform the Croatian public of the true things.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21524	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21525	Mr. President, the Rules of Procedure of Article 209 have been injured and in relation to Article 214 for a simple reason, I have not spoken at all about the Commission of Investigation. I was talking about this investigation committee and I said that the Club of Representatives which my colleague Zgrebec explicitly identified in the Assembly in the course of the club's presentation, supported the establishment of the Investigation Commission, and I personally questioned whether it was possible to open the investigation committee for a very simple reason to cross the Law on Investigation Commissions while the trial was under way, anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21526	Your Honor, Mr. Representative and Vice President, I disagree with your assessment that the Rules of Procedure have been injured. First, the invitation of both of you and different from the other representatives to Article 209. The rules of procedure are simply not justified. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure only regulates that an agent who wishes to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that the chairman is obliged to give him his word as soon as he has requested that the speech of that representative may not last longer than one minute and that the MP should specify an article of the Rules of Procedure on whose injury he is referring. Therefore, a representative who wishes to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure must specify a certain member of the Rules of Procedure who he holds to be injured either by the chairman or by another participant in the debate. Second, dear fellow Vice President, your call, so to Article 209 concerning Article 214. Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure regulates the pronunciation if, in their speech, the representative does not stick to the subject under discussion, speech, does not receive the approval of the president, his incursion or otherwise interferes with the speaker, reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure, correction of the incorrect statement, starts to talk about another subject he has not received, etc. Now that, right now, I disagree and it's not. You made the claim, I can't get into the metrics of that claim, you made a factual claim that your club, your party, is standing up for the establishment of investigative committees. Behind others, colleague Arlovic. Look, that factal claim, that's the fact that the other representative challenged. Is that true or is that incorrect, it's not on me when I chair, it's a matter, so to the public whether any factual claim is correct or some factual claim is incorrect. I ask you now to set an example for us to take that position, you can now clearly say in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in the event of disagreement, the Committee on Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the political system decide. You have the right to do that. I can't and I can't deny it. But you can see that we're not getting into that if you're a representative. ... You can't make a fellow correction to an incorrect quote. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You can't get a colleague, Kovacevic, you can't, you can't wave left, you can't wave right, now you can fix this. You can't. I don't agree to that. You cannot correct me incorrectly, I have quoted business provisions, I have stated when the president disagrees with the objection that it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure which are right, I have the right and the duty to express or disagree or disagree that the Rules of Procedure is injured, if I hold that it is not then a representative with whom I did not agree that the injured Rules of Procedure are the only one who has the right to propose that in the event of disagreement that his opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of which the Parliament then decides without discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21527	But you took that right from me in the last vote, when I asked for it... [[Speakers speaking out loud, doesn't understand]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21528	...I don't know what was on the last one. Thank you very much. I didn't take anything away from you, whatever agent in the event of a disagreement is asking for it, this was something else entirely. It's completely different.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21529	It wasn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21530	It's completely different.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21531	It wasn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21532	Further correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21533	So I must correct the alleged incorrect colleagues of Arlovic. Col. Arlovic, the Commission of Investigation does not have to decide to include all members of the former government in the work of the Investigative Commission. Therefore, the Commission will decide after assessing objectively and realisticly where there are reasonable reasons and covering a part of the former government's members, regardless of the government's decision. There are different things and different possibilities related to the possible actions of some part that enter the sphere of criminal acts, and this may be a responsibility to encourage criminal acts, there may be an opportunity to assist in the execution of criminal acts. I deeply believe that not all members of the Croatian government participated in this. And he would have taken this as a threat and a warning to all the members of the last government that they could possibly be held accountable. That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21534	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic. Comrade Pancic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21535	Dear President, MP Arlovic said he wanted to infiltrate the court's autonomy. That's right. The aim and task of the commission is to see how the taxpayers' money was spent and to see if it was the government's misjudgement or the deliberate intention of giving money to a private firm whose party friend Damir Vrhovnik was headed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21536	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21537	Mr. President, on behalf of the motionor, I would refer to those statements or exhibitions which, conditionally speaking, wish to challenge the legal justification of making such a decision, and I do not think that this is in relation to the cited articles of the law, i.e. the Law on Investigation Commissions. As regards the constitutional provisions and the very law of its Article 2, I think that we discussed the matter in detail in this morning's debate, and as regards the cited provisions of the law, that the article of the Law on Investigation Commissions which entails proposing such a decision in relation to the established or initiated.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21538	I ask representative Zlatko Kramarić not to throw counsel to Ivica Pancic and thus interfere with the assembly's order. Yes, thank you very much. About that, I think it's another place, another time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21539	Court proceedings, that it is in a particular situation to initiate the bankruptcy proceedings for which it is responsible, that is, the trade court. We know that the basic principle of implementation of the bankruptcy procedure is protection in the ultimate line of interest of creditors who appear as creditors in bankruptcy proceedings. and that this decision, from the constitutional and legal aspects, cannot be questioned by both the point of view and the proposings and by my own person, by doing so as much as possible in the proposed decision itself, so Article 3 of the proposed decisions see the specific tasks to be carried out and why this commission, why, if, of course, the vote of a decision is set up. So let me briefly just repeat those most important points, I don't think it's gonna be a waste. So, the commission is obliged to determine who are the real owners of the Victoria Lenac Shipyard, which has been granted loans and state guarantees. The reasons why state guarantees were issued, therefore state guarantees to shipbuilding creditors who benefited from it and how it benefited from the loans obtained and entered the mortgages on the maritime good. That's one thing. Secondly, when speaking and discussing mortgages as one of the forms let's say real property rights in relation to the whole of this model of placement and credit and the approval of guarantees I think we have clearly warned and referred to what is in the whole, let me say so, the story is important and that is one model, one model that is unacceptable, which is directly opposed to the public interest and which in the end comes down to state resources being guaranteed, so by the basis of guarantees according to approved loans, to whom, therefore, private companies. So, the structure of the core capital of the company that we're talking about because they're private companies. The ownership structures that we had the opportunity to see from the paper or documentation attached to the proposal of this decision and what is controversial and what would also be the task of this committee when it comes to mortgages. Not about the mortgage as a right, but as a mortgage it is a precedent and we reiterate where the mortgage is actually registered or registered at the land and book department of the Municipal Court in Rijeka on the maritime good. I really don't want to bother you right now that it's a maritime good, that it can't acquire property or any other real rights and at all the way to enter a mortgage, and that's exactly why it's a public good in Martinstica treated as a property that was for insurance in this whole model, I think it represents not only public, that's what interests all of us, all of us, as well as parliamentary representatives who are interested in the public and interested and now employed in bankruptcy proceedings in Viktor Lenco, so employees and those who have unfortunately lost their jobs in this whole process. And let me get this straight. So, on behalf of the promoter, we can defuse ourselves in these discussions in a wide variety of directions and drift away from the important or the core of the problem. We are here proposing a decision on the formation of a commission and when all this is moving around, which we may have talked about on the way or talked about today, I think the whole story is about whether the financial damage has been done to the state of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia. If she's what she is and we figure out who she is, who she's responsible for. So when people who are responsible are mentioned by those who have made decisions in this way, these people have sat in the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the last meeting. So it's in the front row of the president, so it's the prime minister and the resolute ministers who've been working it all together. We know how these loans and guarantees are granted and which, if this fact-finding substrate that I think is inconclusive, which applies to this whole thing as such that this investigative committee can certainly, by doing so, draw answers to the conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21540	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21541	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs! Indeed, not to participate in the debate on a proposal to set up an investigative committee in a certain way would not be obvious to my voters as I represent them in this House. And because of that public and my constituents, I will vote at the beginning for a decision on the establishment of an investigative commission. It's also my club's position, but it's also my personal attitude. Why? There's a lot of reasons. I'll try to explain what I'm asking you to do. First, today I read the representative of the Union of Metals of the Republic of Croatia and say in one place. The union warned but also pressured all relevant factors that production should not be shut down and that Lenac had knowledge and workers and had to be given a chance. Why am I still voting for a decision to set up an investigative committee? Because I am convinced that neither all members of the former coalition government nor the president of that government want to hide or have reasons to hide or have the need to hide, nor have the need to be ashamed to go before this Parliament, by saying immediately, means that no court proceedings are being conducted, otherwise the decision would not be possible. So no process related to Victor Lenac, no process. I guess that's where we're legal. Of course, we expect all the state bodies to determine the facts, not that we are establishing them here and performing as if they were established and I'm going to say something about it later. So, please, I ask all the bodies responsible in the Republic of Croatia to act in accordance with the law and to establish all relevant facts. Why still vote? So if we were to refuse the proposal that comes from the ruling party, we'd make two sins. They would offer citizens a reason to doubt our principle but would not even allow HDZ representatives to finally, in principle, want to investigate the conversion and privatisation within that and the granting of guarantees. That principle really needs to be welcomed by HDZ, even if 700 thousand jobs are missing in privatisation, it doesn't matter, let's go research. That's the point of it all. So we must take a principled view of privatisation and government work from the beginning to the end because we are now dealing with the past. Why don't you take one and the other? If this is the past, then they are purely political, party reasons for studying the past. Whether this study will help workers of Viktor Lenco who are still working there, workers of Mechel, workers of Đura Djakovic, whether it will raise the quality of life of workers who do not work and would like to work. Well, my men won't. So do we all think that workers don't know how much it costs just one session of the Parliament that we're all agreeing to set up a commission, in which we performed for political reasons as we did. So we know that a mistake has been made, we accuse you, we determine, we condemn you. That's how it comes from the proposal, and that's how it comes from the Law on Investigation Commissions, that's what citizens need to know. One more thing to vote for, unfortunately, and it won't bring a result. The sooner we go, the sooner we vote. You should look simply in the order of the agenda. The first point of today's session is the proposal to set up an investigative commission, so let's deal with the past for which we are not qualified but please we will not deal with the future. What determines the lives and standards of people and the Republic of Croatia, the arrangement, which is the signed agreement and all the conditions in it of the Republic of Croatia with the International Monetary Fund. I am not interested in the International Monetary Fund, I am interested in the Government's programme for reviving agriculture and the economy of the Republic of Croatia and the standard of citizens. That's why I'd like to discuss it. There is a general debate in democratic countries on the development of the country. It's about the development of the earth. Let's open that topic. I don't mind setting up an investigative committee again. Let it go its course and its course. One more thing, I can't help but notice that the goal in my court has been achieved by opening the debate itself. What do I come to the conclusion? And from the applicant's appearance. The aim was to politically disqualify a different or opposite view. Such a performance, and I hope that the Croatian public will see the stenogram, in a stenogram, and will bring the court itself as well. It does not help the democratic atmosphere and solve problems in this Croatian House. And there's something else I have to notice with regret. I was convinced really that HDZ had been demoralized. Really, seriously, I mean it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21542	Comrade Leko, I beg you, I am interrupting you. With these qualifications, no one comes out, whether or not a party is democratisationd, it has nothing to do with this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21543	I'm sorry, I was wrong, HDZ didn't democratisation. I was wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21544	I once again warn you that this is an insult to a political parliamentary party And do not be offended. For this I give you a warning. [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Don't insult any parliamentary parties. [[Intruder: Thank you!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21545	I understand. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I was wrong in qualifications, I was wrong in qualifications. I was wrong about the qualification. I think like this then, about this, I thought the Commission's proposal would be aimed at really identifying the facts rather than disqualifying the same-minded. I therefore concluded that the proposal was in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia rather than in the political interest of the HDZ and its representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21546	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21547	The violation of Article 214, Mr. Leko insults not the representatives but the entire political party where he reads lessons about some kind of democratisation. Whomever you, Mr. Leco, will read the lessons of democratisation, you who belonged to the 90th political party that bordered She's stepped on it, and she's tried the same thing in the last four years. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Glavas, it's me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21548	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Thank you very much. I, Mr. Lek, have, by my judgment, assessed that he has injured the reputation of one party, given him a warning, and I no longer need any intervention in that regard. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21549	Dear Mr. President, in a number of incorrect allegations, my colleague Leko said that there was also a need to discuss conversion, as a whole, because of the transformation as we had not discussed. We did, and the investigative committees you formed and we had here and we discussed exactly how it was, according to Parliament's conclusion, that is, by law to investigate the whole, the revision determines how it would be discussed and these reports we had here and there were plays and attempts, even criminal charges were some that were here spectacularly removing immunity and those criminal charges were rejected. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21550	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21551	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's an absolutely incorrect assumption that this debate is not going to help the workers of Lenca, Željezara and other companies who are in a similar position. I think they'll open their eyes to see who got rich because they got poor, to see who their political sponsors were, and finally to see that even unionists, most unionists on the party lists of the same political sponsors that ruined them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21552	The next correction by the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21553	The correction consists of the fact that Mr. Leco has again made an incorrect claim that all of this is the goal of political disqualification of the opponent. We're not using it exactly. I'm going to relate to what Mr. Jarnjak said, for the past four years, you've been removing immunity, ordering the police to mount criminal charges to prosecute your political insolents. That you didn't succeed because no criminal record got results. Therefore, this was not the goal of disqualifying you politically but of showing the public and the taxpayers how you had hundreds of millions of tax money, taxpayers, how you shared them by your grandparents, your friends, your party friends, and not for the reason that there was a truly justified economic need.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21554	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21555	Mr. President, I think you've hurt the meaning of the entire Rules of Procedure because you have a different treatment for MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21556	I didn't hurt because I don't have any different treatment for MPs, and I don't agree with that. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tagostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21557	I'm correcting the inaccuracies of Leca's representative that there's no trial for the time being. So we have no knowledge that there is a criminal trial or anyone else, but unfortunately it is ongoing, as we heard from Vice President Arlovic. One of the most painful court proceedings is a bankruptcy procedure where in any case, neither the faithful nor the workers nor everyone else will go well. So, bankruptcy proceedings are under way. And I suppose if everything is and partly true, what we've heard today is going to be other kinds of prosecutions and proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21558	Fellow Judge-Tracostanec, this is not a correction to an incorrect assumption, that you listened carefully to Agent Lek then heard something quite different. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21559	Thank you, Mr. President, sir, my colleague Leko said: the position and goal of the HDZ is to deal with the past rather than solving the current problems. It's simple, it's simply not true, it's not true. In fact, HDZ is facing the future and when it comes to a specific case then certainly each of us representatives and the Croatian public is interested in the following, which is that huge state money was thrown into the wind and that amount was enough to restructure and restructure not only the economy in the area of Sinj and the Cetin region but from the whole of Dalmatia. Therefore, it would not be 500, 600 jobs but rather several thousand jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21560	Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21561	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Leco has determined that dealing with Lenco is about dealing with the past, not the future, and dealing with the future should be our obligation. I quote him: "It is simply incorrect, establishing this commission makes sense that we are dealing with our future so that those who have been incompetent and irresponsiblely carrying out important tasks in this country could never do so again in the future.". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21562	Replica. Honorable representative Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21563	Mr. President, colleague Leko. In your debate, you said the reasons for establishing the commission were purely political. If they were political, they would be justified. No government can escape nor can any Parliament escape its political responsibility. And the reasons why and the facts are being held here are the reasons to establish the reason for the establishment of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21564	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21565	I'm satisfied with the allegations because they're just confirming that I was right. The way he does it, they do it. They say they must be questioned in the case of “Lance” so they never come to power again. That mentality speaks of who would want to decide on behalf of the citizens. Thank you very much. Those who say it's a politically motivated investigative committee, that it's logical. Well, of course it makes sense. That's what I was talking about. But our goal is not just party policy, but a policy that will bring better citizens [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21566	You can't rephrase Mr. Glavas by the Rules of Procedure, MP...... What? [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] From, no, he's responding to the replica of Mrs. Catharine Fuchek. Order! I'm running a session.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21567	Yes, it is. A colleague, a colleague, a colleague, a colleague, a colleague, a colleague, a colleague, a colleague, a colleague. [[As far as I'm concerned, just get it over with.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21568	Please do not throw or take words without the permission of the chairman. I'll give every warning that comes in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21569	I'm not going to repeat them because they were hard on me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21570	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Mrs. Fuchek has no replica, no reply to the replica. There isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21571	Well, I think we've heard a lot about Victor Lentz in the past few years. A shipyard that will one day become big, which will work well, which many people have. We've heard about many other companies. We listened to them fail, and in most cases, the same thing happened. The more the companies were poorer or the owners of the company or the presidents of the company's administration were getting richer, the bigger the yachts were but it was rare that the entire government or part of the government was found on such a yacht, that they were sunbathing while the workers were blacking out there at 60 to 90 degrees inside the ships and were making decisions that were to be made in the government, not on the deck of the ship. There's been a lot of problems before, and that's true. There were problems until 1990 when workers were out of work because of their overnumbering. “TOP Kerestinec” had 60% of office employees and it is normal that by going to the market it had to fail as well as a number of other companies. I'm not defending anyone here, and it was everything. There were big mistakes, and that's why we paid, so maybe one day we'll all have consequences together, but one day, another time brings our own time, and that's how it's gonna be. However, what should be said about “Viktor Lenc” is that people need to know that debts and these great debts come on the charge not now, not perhaps this year. They're coming in a few years. That these are not just debts that will come from “Viktor Lenca” because countless of these debts and loans have been postponed and that we will have a lot of problems again in the budget with the repayment of older debts. And all that would have been bearable if those debts had had some consequence, a positive consequence. That “Viktor Lenac” has recovered and, above all, that “Vicor Lenac” is not a private company. I know it's hard in this competition to get into the market, it must be hard to get into the market because, many shipyards are better supplied. They may have more skilled workers and better paid workers and many of our workers went to other shipyards, but there should have been measures here. It should also have the protection of all these loans, and we saw what was given, what was offered under the mortgage, that what was not to be offered. And in fact, what surprises me is whether the government's desire or intricacies are being evaluated to protect the money from the budget. I've never been against helping a company that has some perspective but it's enough to assess how much this company can, how much it can save jobs and how much it can finally make progress or how much, it's enough to keep the number of jobs and it's enough to make positive business. It's hard to talk about some big jumps and big progress. We're forming an investigative commission here to see what actually happened with all of this. Because it's unusual that no one noticed that every new loan actually drowns in something that doesn't make any changes. That the company is actually sinking deeper and deeper without anything happening. Damir Vrhovnik was still in charge. His yacht was receiving our politicians in Pag at any moment, including the prime minister, and the shipyard was sinking. I believe that the ships that were being repaired were of greater quality and the workers were not involved in politics but worked during that time. I don't think there's any objection to the commission. And that actually the commission should work as soon as possible. It is certain that there will be members in this commission both of them and of the third and fourth parties so that they can, may, may each say their own, and I believe that the argument and documentation will help us to come to the truth that we all want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21572	Thank you very much. Replica. First respected representative Antun Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21573	Thank you, Mr. President. As well as most HDZ colleagues in every way and it is their right to try to place their truth to the Croatian public that the rescue of “Vicor Lenca” was exclusively for personal reasons,... connection and acquaintances. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would tell my colleagues Markovanovic that already in Pomorie High School, in the nautical department students, future captains are learning a subject called Maritime Economics and that I am taught by some top professors who today do not have among the living that shipbuilding is an activity that has a large multiplier factor and through other production of a new ship through others, another accompanying industry if the national industry participates with some 60 percent then achieves these multiplier effects. And in the maintenance of the ship, it's an activity that brings profit directly. Having experience in the last 40 years, the “Viktor Lenac” Shipyard has been a bastion of the Croatian shipbuilding industry. And these, that activity simply had to be saved and that was the government's attempt. I am, unfortunately, not in some way, but deeply concerned about the fate of these 520 employees who are still in that shipyard. But I assure you they will not, unfortunately their fate unless this government helps to truly save itself through bankruptcy, and not liquidate they will not remain on the street, but will present their knowledge, their experience, their quality of work in Bolkfalkone, in Lebanon, Venice, Trieste, and so on. So I call on this government too, and that was the goal of the former coalition government, and I call on this government to do everything it can to save that quality bootlegger. And as far as this commission is concerned, I adhere to the proposal of my colleague, Stazic, to be truly the leader of this pneumonia, Mr. Glavas, I think the verdict has already been written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21574	You can't, Mr. Head. There is no correcting the incorrect quote in the replica. He has a reply to the replica, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21575	Mr. President, here, I'd just like to respond to the replica. I agree with the gentleman that the shipyard must be very valuable, every shipyard has a lot of effects, positive effects. If our companies are working for that shipyard. And some of the analysis showed that the highest inside was imported in a variety of ways, but let's leave it alone. And then it's a little unconvincing only when we're talking about profit that it's actually a guarantee that they were huge guarantees, that's the money that was thrown away be careful, that hundreds of millions that went away. These are the remaining debts to the cooperatives, and that makes it a little unconvinced. You would have been much more convincing if someone had led this company who wasn't so close to the government, personally, privately. Where there would be less nepotism, and everyone would trust them as well. As far as expertise is concerned, we have a quality expert. In political science, they are taught only by the splendor of the SDP and against the HDZ talks. From talking to the students.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21576	You can't, Mr. Jurovic. Leave it alone. Further replicated representative Zdenko Antišić please come in. Peace. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21577	Dear Mr. President, I'd like to replicate the distinguished representative Markovanovic. The last coalition government invested more than 10 billion kunas in the shipbuilding area of the Third May Shipyard, in the Uljanik Shipyard, in Brodosplit Shipyard, in Kljaljevica Shipyard, and in Brodo Trogir Shipyard. The team headed those shipyards and the owners of those shipyards were certainly not party friends of the former coalition government. In addition, there was a tightly deplaced thesis that the funds had been shared by some party key, and the funds had already been allocated to save a very significant economic branch and on the subject of the programme that those shipyards had put out. With this approach, then, and with this presentation, the formation of an investigative committee that I personally advocate and I will vote for to form it. A clear message is given to foreign investors where the distinction between different forms of ownership is done, so private ownership must not be guaranteed. Because it's kind of satanized. And I'm afraid this kind of presentation has made judgment before the court, and this trial reminds me incredibly of some of the processes that I really think are already behind us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21578	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Krunoslav Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21579	Well, here's the answer to Mr. Antesic. No one seems to mind that the shipyards are being helped. Shipyards can be the pride of one country for all the ships they've built for the image of the country and all that. That's not what this is all about. The shipyards Mr. Antisic listed are state-owned, this was private property. And there was actually the least persuasion, the least persuasion was. That's why all the side effects that were very ugly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21580	And the next replica, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21581	I thank Mr. President, my colleague Markovanovic said that after the government realized that Lenac had not actually come before bankruptcy, that nothing had happened, that Damir the Supreme was still the principle that the yacht with its friends was still a vessel. But it seems important to me to point out, other than what you said, which is true that Mr. Vrhovnik was at the time when the government intervened with as we heard hundreds of millions of kuna, receiving a salary of 130 thousand kuna a month. A month's salary of 130 thousand kuna. In the end, under the pressure of the public exclusively under the pressure of the public and all those of the believers and all those who simply squirmed in squabbles because of the failure to fulfil the obligations of Viktor Lenc towards them, in order to eventually reduce that salary by even 10 times to one, according to him, a misery of 15 thousand kunas as much as we do not receive here. So that's what happened and the fact that the public intervened, other than that everyone made it clear that it was really friendly relations, and the Supreme said that it was true. That he is friends with them, that he does not deny this friendship the same as the government gentlemen did not give up friendship because they clearly showed this friendship to millions of amounts addressed to Lentz. Should it be noted, I think, for the sake of the Croatian public, that it should be made clear that the government did not respect the decision on the criteria in which guarantees were granted. Why didn't you give guarantees to local self-government? Why didn't you give guarantees, I'll say specifically, to the city of Dubrovenko who was looking for his infrastructure that same year for the construction of which are taxpayers and whom you are obliged to give it. why you did not respect a decision that the government is bound to respect. That's the thing. You did not respect the decision on the criteria for granting those same guarantees. That's what this is about. And that is the key that the Croatian public must know. You passed all the laws you acted as friendly as in the Excelsior case where your friend Strok is and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21582	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Irena Ahel. Thank you. I don't have a crystal ball so I can imagine what the promoter was looking for. The applicant should be clearly signalled so that I may know that the applicant is looking. And with some movements that last seven-tenths of a hundredths of a second, I cannot conclude that the esteemed promoter is seeking participation in the debate. First, there will be a correction to the incorrect assumption. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas. She didn't have a co-worker out of a false allegation. She just called for a hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21583	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. So again, since the debate is under way, the average viewer who did not follow today's debate would understand that this is some kind of political game, where the parliamentary majority wants to compromise the parliamentary minority. Because of this, I must repeat again in short lines what is the reason for this proposal to set up a commission. The public interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in this topic exists. Through the media, they could hear from time to time that something was wrong, that hundreds of millions of kuna in the past few years had spread under vague foggy reasons and excuses in Viktor Lenac. And citizens are interested in getting an answer to the question of what's going on here. And since there is a constitutional basis for making this decision on the appointment of the commission, there is a public interest of the Croatian public to find out what happened there. What is happening here, and who has placed hundreds of millions of kunas through friendly and party ties by misusing the function that he has been acting, misusing the trust that the coalition authorities then received in the January 3, 2000, placed hundreds of millions of kunas in one direction, their friends, their acquaintances, to see what is behind it. Therefore, that is why we are asking for the establishment of this commission, not to compromise some politicians who are at the heart of their careers, who themselves said that it is their last mandate to lead their party and that they will no longer run. Therefore, enough reason to reject these accusations that we are doing it all together to compromise someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21584	Don't knock. ... So he's talking about the commission. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Speak, you're...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21585	Enough reason not to have any political background to compromise anyone, but to expose the truth. To expose the fact that you have placed hundreds of millions of kunas in your private pockets for years, and since it could not fit in your pockets, these were deliveries in some other forms. You resent me when I tell the bags, maybe not the bags, but then you overloaded the shovels, the expense of other economic operators, the expense of other thousands and thousands of workers that this government and this government have passed and every future government has to take care of quality social programs, take care of and solve their problems. That didn't happen. So if, over 3 years, someone places 350, 400 million kuna, and there is no economic justification for it, that there is no moral reason for it, that there is no legal foothold for it, then the public has to get answers to those questions about who is behind it and why it was done. And that's why the commission is being established. And Mr. Peru and Mr. Pecek, who you have on several occasions proposed to me for the commission, the chairman of the commission, I must tell you that although you are sitting in this House and receiving a fine salary, you have not mastered the parliamentary rules and you do not know that from the ruling party you cannot be the chairman of the commission, but that the chairman of the commission can be of the ranks of the opposition and therefore I advise you to spend more energy to decide and choose who among you will be the President of the Commission, that this commission can be established as soon as possible. And also, Mr. Letica...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21586	Please, ladies and gentlemen, cut it out. Wait, Mr. Head, cut it out a little bit. I don't know why you're banging now, what's that for? ... Mr. Glavas, peace, please, I didn't give you my word. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Mr. Glavas is talking about it. You're him. True, and he responds that he can't be, because under the Constitution he can't be, he has to be just out of opposition he can be. It's not an insult. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21587	It's hard to offend you. Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21588	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21589	I just want one more misunderstanding between Mr. Letica and me. As a Christian, and as a member of a Christian party, I did not say that I did not believe in the resurrection of man, but I do not believe in the resurrection of an economic dead man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21590	We now have the corrections of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Zdenko Antešić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21591	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative Glavas presented a series of incorrect allegations, and among them could actually be made one taste of them in such a way as to actually be about the reasons, he said the reasons for forming an investigative commission, to establish the truth, that is, to establish any irregularities. And quite the opposite, that's not true. This commission and the way it stands is intended only to carry out a political verdict by the former government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21592	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21593	It's interesting that by wanting to talk about the investigation committee by ten, a hundred times repeats that we are charged with crimes or crimes for the reason that we carry bags, bags, I don't know what we carry money in our private pockets. It's spoken from this indictment, I can't call it a pay phone and correct it a hundred times. The decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which I personally participated in, ensured the lending of "Viktor Lenca" as a shipyard, Croatian companies with thousands of employees and thousands of co-operatives to try to survive. And the bankruptcy that's been opened is a way of really not becoming the economic dead man that Mr. Glavas is talking about again, because this economic operator can recover, but he needs to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21594	Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21595	Mr. Glavas has incorrectly claimed that the former government has placed money in private pockets, incorrectly because the court has not established it, it has not established the BOOK or the police. That's the charge and sentence of Mr. Glavas. We've been listening to his accusations all day, as well as his judgments. This was definitely a political debate today, and it was only because the HDZ gentlemen have no intention of discussing the IMF, because Lenc can be discussed by the USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office, and only the Croatian Parliament can discuss the IMF.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21596	Here in the second part, colleagues Opačić, the debate on stand by and on the Memorandum of the IMF is included in the agenda and will be held. Dear Representative, Dear Zgrebec. ... When business conditions are met. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21597	The incorrect finding by Glavas was that the past government was giving guarantees to friends and neglecting other branches. It is true that in almost 4 years of the coalition government, many economic branches have been rehabilitated. That's how it is, for example. about 12 billion kunas invested in agriculture to prepare large agricultural companies for privatisation, which, in this time, is on the agenda, is also talking about privatising "Belja". In shipbuilding through subsidies and guarantees, about 10 billion were invested, the Croatian Post Bank, which was robbed at about 800 million kuna and is now going to privatisation, as we could read in the agreement with the IMF.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21598	Honorable representative Antun Perusko, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21599	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting my colleague Glavas' incorrect claim that he cannot be the chairman of the commission from the ruling party. In fact, I understand that he can't. According to our Rules of Procedure and our acts, it is not and is not a practice for the ruling party to seek the formation of a commission, so in this House, a lot of precise inaccuracies are present and otherwise I would thank my colleagues Glavas for teaching. I will try to learn the acts for the money I make in the House, you could learn it in two or three terms in which you are in this House, and you could learn that MPs are not offended, and it does not offend other political parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21600	And the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica, the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21601	I'm glad that the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas repented. Unfortunately, it is true that I am correct and it is not the first time that religious feelings of the elementary Croatian population are offended. 92% of the population of Croatia believes in the resurrection domicile, I would like to ask that the pedagogical effect on you colleagues, and that as little as possible, you appear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21602	And that was the correction of an incorrect quote, now, the assessment of his remorse? Your Honor, did you report to the replica? And where is that now? On the replica? And well, why don't you around me, tell me, I can't follow everything, and then you have to talk so that I can hear, and not only that... Here's your colleague, Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21603	Oh, I mean, since you were watching me, I thought you saw me. So, the incorrect quote of his colleagues, Glavas, was when he said, "I am a member of the Democratic Party", he is a member of the Croatian Democratic Community, and I continue to interpret it to you, and the truth is that you have stated that you do not believe in the resurrection of the dead, that it is written in the Bible, but that you do not believe it. What did you mean, I don't know, but that's what you said, and that's the truth. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21604	The resurrections, the second chance. Honourable representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21605	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Fully private repair Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" with ownership structure... Mrs. Zgrebec, is there anything wrong with what I'm saying? I think I don’t need this” then at a time I have the right to have.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21606	You go ahead, everything goes in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21607	Full private refurbishment Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" with ownership structure Jean Carlo Zacello, Italian businessman 33.6% of core capital ownership and IFC, International Finance Corporation from Washington 17.7% of core capital, DEG Deutsche Investment from Kolna 9.3% of core capital, Raiffeisenbank Austria 4.3% of capital and management 16.6% of core capital. In December 2002, this shipyard had about a thousand and two hundred of its own and another thousand cooperative workers. Today, it's in bankruptcy with about 400-450 workers and little chances of the company surviving. Although in March 2002, Victor Lenac found himself in a difficult situation by jumping Alcatela out of a big shift contract for the Kraka ship, which from the initial $10m, or U.S. dollars, has grown to $30m, the hyperambitious management insists on intensive investment in the development projects sought by state funds. And the funds he was given are not given to save the shipyard, it's a side note, but to support these unverified ones, and in fact, adventure plans for investment in development have been shown. These plans consisted of the construction of a $40 million steel construction site. These large, large floating docks as there are perhaps two others in the world to a length of 275 meters and a bright 55-metre opening, bought an old dock in America, cut, transported, upgraded and still not finished. The planned value of this investment was $25.8 million, but to this day it's cost 40 million US dollars and it's not over yet. Unfortunately, the sale is so unfinished and the bankruptcy manager Škrec has won for the purchase of docks, while Lenac 11 only has one bid for $10m. So, it's 40, so far unfinished it can be sold for $10 million. The current losses of Victor Lenca are in bankruptcy, so this reduced amount is 3.8 million kuna, and in the coming weeks it comes to the collection of another 5 million kuna claims. Only 9 smaller units of total value were agreed, all 9 contracts of $900,000, and monthly expenditures of this reduced "Lance" in bankruptcy with the mentioned number of employees according to the New List since 23 September of this year amounted to 2.3 million US dollars. Unfortunately, it's a complete crash. There is no doubt that the management of "Lance" who boasted a year ago by applying the best experiences in company and risk management, adventurous gambling high stakes and lost. However, what raises the suspicions of all of us and the broad circle of citizens is the question, how was it possible to manage a private company gambling with taxpayers' money? And why, with whose right to this high-risk private gambling party was introduced from 2001 to 2003 and the state budget? That's why an investigative commission is needed. This is why colleagues need an investigative commission from the National Parliament to determine what reasons people in the then Croatian government have for reaching into the budget and allowing friends to gamble as much as the mandate of Racan's government. Tell me, what kind of loan and guarantee insurance is a mortgage on a maritime good on property that can't be acquired? Nothing. Was that ignorance? Hardly. But not really, certainly not, because the Ministry of Economy in its 11.7.2001, warns that such insurance is not worth it. So it wasn't a mistake, not knowing. In the same letter, however, it advocates and recommends that taxpayers' money be given to these gamblers. For what? Nice eyes. What were the ministers, what were the ministers obsessed with? Because they rejected the duty of caution. Let it be about friends, people you trust in, personal trust can guide you when you have personal property, but when you have state property, that argument is not worth it. This may not be the reason for the granting of guarantees or loans, but that this irregularity of lending credit to private companies from the state budget follows another even more fatal irregularity, fictitious loan insurance that is unacceptable. So the decision was made as unreasonable, based on trust in friends without valid arguments, and then that stake is not properly secured as it should with public government money. It could be speculated on reasons as the public already does, but it is best that they themselves are tortured by giving an explanation to the electoral commission and therefore I think that this commission is necessary even if the SDP colleagues may have declared their support, I don't think I can avoid it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21608	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21609	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of fellow MPs who say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia supported a very risky game of management of the Trade Society "Viktor Lenac". No, I don't. As a colleague also read, the owners of "Lenca" were respected companies, including the IFC-reputable World Bank financial house, DEK State Agency for the financing of projects in developing countries, Raiffeisen was one of the prominent banks in the Republic of Croatia, and the entire consolidation project was led by HIPO... from Zagreb. So these were partners we talked to, how to save Lenac, who has 1200 employees and thousands of co-operatives, and that was the government's decision, it was the government's job, it was partners to talk to the Government of Croatia. But he'll have time, the commission will deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21610	Replica esteemed representative Zdenko Antišić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21611	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to rephrase to my distinguished colleague, Zvonimir Puljic, in a way that I can ask a question that can be asked from his presentation. That sends a message to the workers of "Lance" to which he hangs... Over my head? [[You don't understand.]] What message is also sent to foreign investors who are potentially or already in the Croatian state? And the message is this: Instead of dealing with how an economic branch will be brought back to life for the Croatian economy and ensure jobs and employment, the government shows its inability and deals with the past rather than with the real problems that affect this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21612	Replica's reply, respected representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21613	Your concern for the workers of Victor Lenca is pure demagogy, twisting things, manipulation with one objective problem, because after the failure of a private company these workers are the problem of this government and this state. But you're manipulating them to cover up what happened here from 2001 to 2003, and what we want to clarify and clarify, why the money was entrusted to them without enough responsibility, the money from the Treasury without checking whether these were reliable projects, and you yourself mentioned that the projects, the development projects in which the Treasury was financed, had failed because the financial structure was not closed. That's one of the basic criteria for checking. So, half-finished until, half-completed overpass to build metal structures that can't be used. A huge amount of money accumulated in something that won't pay back the money, and then you had to react, actually even when the ship "Step" as a serious failure rocked Shipyard "Viktor Lenac". 30 million U.S. dollars that didn't charge because he went into arbitration and never actually got to Lenac, they seriously shook up that company instead of going into costs, because at that stage, until these investment works and development programs were completed, they represented an additional burden and cost, that they were directed to focus on the production they were working on until then.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21614	Thank you very much. Next replica, respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21615	Well, today almost all day is not spoken at all or very little about the commission, it's actually about the accusations and convictions of the former members of the government. This only shows that there is no will in HDZ and those who are proposing on behalf of the HDZ Club to investigate indeed what happened with the committees in "Vicor Lenco" but only to politically judge their opponents politically. "Lencom" should be dealt with by the State's Attorney's Office. We have no objection, therefore, to this commission, and we will vote for it. We in the SDP make it very clear that we believe that after an investigation has been carried out, but not the ones to be conducted here by individual representatives in the Assembly Hall but after an investigation by the competent authorities, all those responsible should bear responsibility for it. I think that today's debate has shown that this topic actually wants to draw attention to all the important topics that our citizens want to discuss in this Parliament. I repeat again, in this House, it is fleeing the debate on the scandalous economic policy run by the HDZ government, on an agreement that is very bad for Croatian citizens signed with the IMF, but is very much talking about something that should be done by the police, USKOK, the State's Attorney's Office and finally the court, because today this hall is turned into a courtroom instead of a parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21616	It's not a courtroom turned into a courtroom. The proposal is for an investigative committee in which all MPs and all parties can present their views on the proposal, and the qualification that this courtroom is a little too difficult. Replica's reply, respected representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21617	A colleague obviously performs as well as her other colleagues from the club, agreedly, planned, to shift the topic to anything else and any agreement with the IMF, was concerned about the workers of Victor Lenca or something else, just so that our attention would not focus on what we highlighted today with the arguments in the first plan. And in order not to achieve what they are declaring, the formation of an investigative commission that would expose to the public everything that has been successfully prevented. However, I hope that no one or the public will fall for these manipulations and that the investigative committee will reveal the fact that and why the large amount of money from the Treasury went into failed private projects. I also hope that it will be a precedent that will show that such a thing should never be repeated in the management of the State Treasury and the Government, so that private projects will never be financed in the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21618	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21619	Funny? Something's very funny to you. If I were you, it wouldn't be funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21620	No comment, Mr. Glavas, and please both colleagues and colleagues, don't polymize in that way what's funny and what's not funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21621	I agree, but you have to put order in the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21622	Now I'm going to start introducing order, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21623	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll start part of the faith. I believe in the resurrection of the dead and the life of the future century, amen. But I don't believe in the resurrection of an economic dead man. Mrs. Opacic, it's not true that this Assembly Council is here trying to turn into a courtroom. We do not want to judge anyone here, at least to colleagues, at least to any other political option in which we do not look at the enemy, which we are not hostile to, unlike this political option while she was twirling with Croatia. We do not want to bring impatience into this Assembly Hall. We do not want to bring dissension into the electoral body of the Republic of Croatia, we do not want to share the citizens of Croatia. We want after this debate to come unanimous in the view of all political parties that Croatian citizens have the right to the truth, to have the right to know how to spend Croatian citizens' budget money. I don't want to debate anyone's responsibility until January 3, 2000 because some of the speakers here mentioned that privatisation was done, I don't know, 93, 94. So, during HDZ power. I want this commission, if it is established, and I believe it will because all the clubs have supported it, touched that period, and called before that commission and those people whose decision it was, whose power was crucial at that time to make that privatisation and to do some of the actions that we claim today could not be done. I personally, and I believe these 16 MPs, and no representative of the Croatian Democratic Union, and I believe that no political party in this House will stand behind anyone, defend anyone, and hide nobody's confusion, so easily said. And therefore, Mrs Opačić and colleagues and colleagues from opposition parties, don't look all that black. This is not directed against anyone and against any political option. It is aimed at one single goal that the last one to be taxed, to which a contribution is made from the most intrinsic Croatian village, knows what the Croatian government and the Croatian government have spent that money. And in view of that, no one can disprove, that there are no reasonable doubts, there are well-founded indications that this money has been poured and spilled into different places without any economic logic, without any legal standoff. I don't think it would be right if we stuck our heads in the sand and didn't go through what was going on in the past tense. Not in the last four years, but in the last 14 years, if the shorts go back to those of HDZ authorities. Personally, I do not consider myself responsible for any misdemeanour that has been a fact in the first 10 years of government, which has not been spared neither these defects nor this coalition government in the past four years. We're all here together to learn, to correct our mistakes, and that such things don't happen today and that such things don't happen tomorrow when another government comes, when another political option wins and never again. And that is why we are discussing this today and therefore I ask for the support and understanding of all political parties and all policy options because it suits all of us. Both each parliamentary representative, no matter which party they belong to, and any political party. Because I'm convinced that no political party, no SDP, no HNS, no HDZ, no HSS has anything wicked in their program, something dirty. Therefore, there is no one to be ashamed of, no one to be afraid of. Who has had honorable intentions in the past, who has honorable intentions today and who wants to do honorable work and conduct his job or representative or one of the leaders in the executive government, both now and in the future. And that's why we want to, we suggest that we listen to this voice of the public, this existence of public interest to open this topic, that this topic be thoroughly worked out, that this topic, that this topic should be answered to the questions asked. That's what this investigation committee is all about. It's not a compromise of political inexperience, it's a disclosure of everything that's been pushed under the carpet, if it's pushed. And there are reasonable doubts that a lot of things have been pushed under the carpet, that there's a lot of hiding, that she's hiding, that she's hiding, and only for what? For the sake of individual personal interests, this must not be tolerated. It does damage, political damage to each of us who deals with this public work and public action. This causes political damage to every political option, every political party in this House, and therefore we need to spare ourselves and all other people who deal with politics and all the political options that are in the public and political lives of the Republic of Croatia. The areas of research are well known. It only goes into what touches and touches the problem that is unclear, which is unspeakable and which is covered with fog. We're looking for, so we're focusing on Victor Lenac. There are still other MPs, 10 more groups of MPs can open 10 topics in front of this House. So it's not our intention to cover something up, but to open up a topic that could potentially compromise our political insatiables. We're from Victor Lance. There were other thoughts, other suggestions. Whoever has the proposal and wants to run something similar my first signature has on such an initiative, no matter what political party suggests it. So, I'm willing to put a signature on the establishment of investigative committees and on some other issues, and on some other companies, and on some other misunderstandings, if any. I don't run away from it. So, Bianca, I'm announcing to you no matter what you want if you think there's some loose ends in the first 10 years, over the past four years. Today I'm putting on my signature, so we're going to have a debate and we're going to discuss it. And to conclude. Today, and precisely because we heard a confession from Mr. Linic that he misjudged the owners of Lenco who thought he was responsible because he misjudged hundreds of millions of kunas to go to the expense of a company for the reason that Prime Minister Racan said he was wrong. To determine that, to see who made the mistake, if they confess that mistake themselves, let's see how far that goes and how to sanction it. I'm not about to take off my head to anyone, but I'm about for everyone to be held accountable for what he did wrong, for what he did to the Croatian state, to the taxpayers, for what if he abused power while he had the chance to behave in that power. The government cannot be abused, it must not be misused. If anyone has abused her for that, it must be answered, gentlemen. We don't judge and judge anyone in advance. We want that story to be opened, to be called a commission, to be composed of members of all political parties. Even my suggestion and my proposal should be at least members of the HDZ and let the president of the opposition be chairman of the commission, let him start working and report to this House. If there's no problem the stories are over, no problem, my God, let's move on, if there's a problem we'll hand over to the competent state authorities to sanction. We don't intend to judge anyone, we don't intend to judge anyone, and God forbid we execute any self-proclaimed or imposed sanctions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21624	Thank you for correcting one of the six incorrect allegations. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21625	Thank you, Mr. President. In his first part of the saying, Mr. Glavas stated that from everything he literally said, there was a suspicion that illegalities had been committed. That is not true, and that is true then you are obliged to file criminal charges, even the indictment arises when there is reasonable doubt, so even when there are only grounds of doubt you are obliged to act under the law. Therefore, it is not true that there is a reasonable doubt here in their proposal as to what it says and which is why it is proposed to set up an investigative commission, because what the provision of Article 2 is saying is based on issues of public interest and when only the question of the legality of work is being explored. But then it comes back from the court's position, and here it is seen from the reasoning that it is going so fiercely that it will be tried by the court itself, and it stands in the motion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21626	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21627	It is an incorrect quote from my colleagues, Glavas, that we do not want to impose impatience towards political inexperience, because this is what my colleague Ingrid was saying. Today this was a polygon of insatiableness towards political insolents, pre-skill qualifications are worn by sacks of money, party, nonpartial, friendly, friends this, which are arguments. Secondly, we absolutely did for this commission and I repeat you have all the levers of the authorities to execute it, process it, and without a commission if you need another thing, colleague Glavas said that the discovery of everything that's been pushed under the carpet, that's where we really agree, and we really should expose everything that's been pushed under the carpet since the 90s...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21628	Thank you very much. My colleague, these are no longer correcting incorrect allegations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21629	...who disappeared into conversion while you...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21630	Thank you very much. Zeljko Pecek, correction. He's giving up, thank you very much. Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21631	Representative Glavas said in his resignation that there are reasonable doubts that criminal acts have been committed and that an investigative commission should therefore be established. If there are reasonable doubts, then the investigating and judicial authorities are competent and should be directed at such an investigation. Because the investigative committees in such cases are ineffective that we have been able to see in the past experience of the work of investigative committees, and precisely because of this political debate that is being held today in the SDP, we in the SDP are even more convinced that this investigative commission should be established and that we will actively engage in its work.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21632	I've followed every word carefully, there's a reasonable suspicion of illegality, not criminal acts. That's the difference. Because illegalities can be others outside the crime scene. Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21633	I am correcting Mr. Glavas' incorrect claim that it is not true that someone is being tried here today, completely incorrectly today, is being tried all day by members of the former government, accusing them, there has been no talk here today about the suspicions of any illegal action all day long only the final judgment is being held that someone has been satisfied that they have been filling private pockets, that shovels have been overloading money into someone's private pockets. There was no word here today on the subject of suspicion, we had both the prosecutor and the investigation and the court in one person.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21634	Dear Representative Joseph Leko is correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21635	Mr. President, the esteemed and influential HDZ member, Mr. Glavas, here, a representative of the HDZ Club, is called to the public in principle when it comes to proposing a cut-off commission, thank you for that. However, if that principle were to be immediately suggested that...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21636	Which you're correcting as incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21637	It's unprincipled to be called public because it doesn't suggest...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21638	That's one value assessment, which you correct as incorrect the alleged fact of the claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21639	The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21640	Is that an incorrect quote? Okay. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21641	Article 209 of my colleague, Leko, is once again entering an area that has nothing to do with what he's reporting. It does not correct an incorrect quote but holds lessons, moves on to other IMF themes, etc. I ask you, Mr. President, to warn Mr. Lek that he respects the Rules of Procedure and to stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21642	Thank you very much, Mr. Glavas. I give you a warning because you've reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure counter-business, and for that I give you a warning. Honorable representative Irena Ahel. I apologize to my colleague Ahel for being in line a little while ago, but as a result of those replicas of correcting the incorrect allegations, her application which was her turn slipped, so with my apology, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21643	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Viktor Lenac Shipyard was privatised by 1994 and a $120m development project was launched in 1998. As part of the project, the very successful and profitable activities of remonts and smaller ship changes were intended to expand to new construction by then. The management structure led by Damir Vrhovnik, a member of the SDP and close friend of former Prime Minister Ivica Racan, and Deputy Prime Minister Slavko Linic planned to build metal construction sites for new ships and to obtain dock 11 that according to expert assessments from maritime and shipbuilding circles, was highly overpaid by a team that was ugly and full of dangerous waste such as asbestos. About $30 million was reportedly spent for reconstruction and procurement of Doka 11 which is a complete absurdity and again, but was unsuccessfully responded by experts. The World Bank and Germany's Bank Development have also been involved in Lenca's development projects, as shareholders. From a $120m investment, about $30 million is loans to business banks with a state guarantee. Although the works on the construction site of metal structures have moved away and the issue of why it is not being used is being raised while the refurbished ship’s specialized shipyard for refurbishment and when the new construction was really a major risk, the more Lenca did so on "May 3rd" and the Kraljevica Shipyard. The Dok 11 is located outside the bay and in the opinion of maritime experts in a completely inappropriate place where the storm would endanger the safety of works. All of the above points to the conclusion that Dok 11 served excellently to launder money, which is also evidenced by the findings of the bankruptcy manager Milenko Šklec, that one dock repair worker worked daily and 25 hours of absurdity. So it's very questionable how valuable the work on the dock is and how much of that entire $120 million development plan has been realized so far? Let's remind you that the crisis in Lenco has begun since the work of the ship's intrinsics... for the Danish company Alcatel. The company broke the contract with Lance because the job was not done within the deadline, while the excuses said that such problems had occurred because a teacher constantly had some new requirements. All allegedly solved by international arbitration, and ultimately by settlement. The damage was estimated at about $30 million, and that was the management's justification for the shipbuilding liquidity crisis. So again, the question is, how can a shipyard that has raised $120 million credit for a development project destroy shipwork such as... From the beginning of the crisis to the start of bankruptcy, the government of Prime Minister Racan on several occasions supported loans raised by the HBOR. The demand for its creditors, among which the state is the largest, currently amounts to 1.3 billion kuna, and of which more than 60% of Lenac owes to the state. There is also a question of the role of the majority owner of the Italian industrialist... who, through two obviously fictitious companies, had a 30% stake in Lenco, who at no time was too upset by the caused crisis. Much of the state guarantees were made at the time of the crisis in Lenco, and the question is, where is this money, or what was it spent in? At the last minute, at the address of the administration, the creditors gave up their debt suit. And what kind of situation these little credentials are in right now, is best spoken by the letter addressed to us by the MPs, so since it's short, I'm asking you to let me read it as a contribution to this debate today. "Dear MPs. We ask you to consider the situation of our co-operatives in the debate on the Viktor Lenac shipyard in Rijeka, and to reach a lower proposed conclusion. Not a small number of small entrepreneurs and craftsmen have not charged their work for the last, and some years of work at the Viktor Lenac shipyard. We've already been forced to sign a deal that our claims will be paid through the war for 12 months. This led us to be deceived because we had to withdraw our duties, i.e. trades, and immediately a day later the director of the shipyard resigns, and shortly thereafter the shipyard goes bankrupt. Our small businesses and crafts are on the verge of surviving, as it is more than a thousand workers, and the matter is even more delicate and worse than we are asked to pay the VATs resulting from the unpaid claims from Viktor Lenac Shipyard. Our requests to postpone these payments are in tax administrations, and we have addressed various institutions, including the Social Partnership Office, the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights and others, in order to help us delay this VAT payment until the end of bankruptcy in the disputed shipyard." As workers and cooperatives experience the care of the last government of themselves, I think this letter speaks for the most part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21644	Thank you. Replica. When did you get Jure up? On time. Come on, all right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21645	Mr. Vice President, I would like to commend this exposure to which MPs did not pay great attention after long debates, and basically, colleague Ahel said the most important thing, the genealogy of attempts, the residential circle of people to create at all costs an economic operator, but rather in the Rijeka Aquarium, we already have several shipyards without need, it was just spending, throwing out any state money to create a new company, and when there are already several companies in Croatia, means Uljanik, 3. May, Kraljevica, Split, etc., when it comes to the construction, construction of ships. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21646	Thank you very much. Let's move on. The word has a Mr. Professor's representative, Dr. Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21647	Mr. Vice President Bebić, I'm actually a little confused with the content of this debate today, because I thought it would discuss the approaches to the methodology, mandate and the dispatch of this Research Commission. Given the circumstances that so far the investigative committees in Croatia have been largely unsuccessful in political history. This is where a substantiated polemic has now appeared, to be a choice of jury in America, would disqualify most of the participants to be members of this investigation committee because they are pre-priority positions. People are either defending themselves or attacking themselves, mostly assuming guilt, using large words mostly from the mere tradition of sacks of money that apply, and I think that in the end, if this type of debate continues, there will be no candidate qualified for this election commission. There will be some MPs from the HSS and the HSP who mostly listen to it and wonder. In fact, this is about a few levels of debate. The first level is the level of conflict of interest which is mentioned in the table itself and which does not necessarily have to be the subject of dealing with this commission if the Commission for the prevention of conflicts of interest that turned into the right direction of cartoons, which also made the amendments to the law completely meaningless, and especially because it concentrated the public's attention on property cards, could practically be abolished tomorrow. That should be discussed. The second level of debate is state guarantees policy. It would be a good idea for this Commission of Investigation and Debate and Priory to conclude that all state guarantees are directed towards the private sector and priorities against Croatian national interests. Croatia has many companies that want and try to become regional economic players. Breaking into neighbouring countries' markets, for example, one company won the mineral water market in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina by buying acid there. He is now trying to break into the Serbian market by buying Knjaz Milos, trying to buy some companies in Hungary and elsewhere. If it is companies with good credits and good investment business strategies, it would not be good to conclude that state guarantees to the public or state sector are in itself good, and that guarantees are given to the private sector by itself by criminal, corruption, and I do not know what kind. Here already mentioned several, even in the last debate, that the social implications of this debate are multiple. Co-operatives were injured not only in this case, there are a lot of cases. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to refer here a review, perhaps a good idea not to be broadcast by Croatian television. I, in my time, gave two criminal contracts to both the Prime Minister and Minister Shucker, expected the State's Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney to do something afterwards. He talks, talks, drinks coffee, and does nothing, and I expect very curiously his report to see how he will try to apologize for this scandalous negativity and non-exorcision of the obvious crimes of capture of the state, abuse of power and serious corruption. Finally, the third level of debate concerns the development and judicial shipbuilding strategy. When it comes to figures, you know, it's hard to concentrate. I did one small analysis for only six years on the guarantees issued and on payments from the social product on behalf of the protested guarantees. In those six years, the last year has not been but by the tenth month some 28 billion kunas of state guarantees have been paid. Thus, while Viktor Lenac is trying to create some big moral panic around him, he seems to be about 4.5 to 5% of these issued guarantees. With regard to payments from the state budget on behalf of the protested guarantees, around half a billion euros were paid. The biggest payment was made in 1999 at the time of the rule of the HDZ of a billion and 418 million kuna, of which only 882 million kuna fell to the end of the contract with Astaldi. So, if you gentlemen want to do your job honestly for the people who are, and I end up, at the head of that commission it must be a man of absolute neutrality that will go from the judgment of innocence, no matter what you think of the left or the right, of Slavko Linic and of the bags of money. When entering the project, one series of dealings with similar processes will not be avoided, which will include Zagreb Bank, Privredna banka, Bechtel, Enron, "black devils and gods" and in this sense, this initiative is welcome in this sense to show that practically Croatian rule of law, investigative authorities and above all, BIAK does not work. I should have asked Mladen Bajic to resign a long time ago because he may be a nice man, but he is absolutely incapable of acting on his duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21648	Thank you very much. It wasn't about the State's Attorney's Office and the SCOTT, so I think it was too much at the end. It was not in line with this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21649	In your opinion, it's too necessary for me to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21650	Especially when names are mentioned. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21651	Mr. Vice President, my colleague Letica, speaking of the establishment of an investigative commission, literally said, I quote, if this continues, only a few members of HSS and HSP will remain for members of the commission. When it comes to the HSS, this is completely incorrect because we know from the previous assembly that they are extremely good at obstructing the work of the investigative committee because we, Professor Letica, to remind you in the past term, were set up by an investigative committee on wheat affair that weighed several hundred million kunas in which the members of the HSS and I had asked 16 times in this House over four years the question of when this commission would work that I was obstructed as the entire Parliament because it was being done by a party-mural coalition headed by the HSS "Führ". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21652	Now he has the word Mr. Representative Marian Bekavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21653	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The establishment of an investigative fact-finding committee in connection with the state guarantees issued, the creditors of the private company "Viktor Lenac" Shipyard is definitely needed and I don't think there is anyone who can say the opposite. I also think that we all want to shed light on the events at the Victoria Lenac Shipyard during the period of rule of the former government so that taxpayers know how and how their money was spent at that time. The facts here are irrefutable. In short, on the party and friendly relationship between the Vrhnik, Linic and Racan comrades, state guarantees were issued to private Shipyard creditors "Viktor Lenac" although the company was known to be in catastrophic condition and on the brink of bankruptcy. Despite the many financial injections, hundreds of millions of kunas, the private company still fails and goes bankrupt. So much money used in a smart and productive way could create a lot of new jobs and encourage a lot of healthy ones to further strengthen and strengthen. Obviously, that wasn't the point. The goal was, in a short time, to reverse this failed company with huge money and where they ended up, to examine the commission we hope to establish in this House of Commons. A large number of state-owned and private-owned companies had major business problems at the time but no one was in such a privileged position as that famous Victor Lenac. We still have shipyards in Split, Trogir, Pula, Sibenik, and none of us were former government favorites as private Shipyard "Viktor Lenac". But fortunately, they did not remember to clone the Supreme and place his clones in other shipyards, so perhaps the state budget would be small for such large guarantees. This irresponsible way of running a state treasure has led us to be in debt to $14 billion in that period, and the government's cashier is in a 7 billion deficit. Who knows where the end would be, and where it would have led the Croatian state if the comrades had not lost power on November 23, 2003. Today, those who have thus made available to taxpayers' money sit here in this High House proposing laws in the social sphere and talking further about the repayment of debt to pensioners from the budget that weighs huge amounts. Raising both the public and the citizens and especially the most vulnerable categories of citizens who have felt the social one in their name. Indeed, gentlemen, hypocritical. For example, policy-making towards the private Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" can therefore be read the way in which the former government's economic policy has been in charge of everything and everything without the effect of the state and citizens, and the Croatian people will feel this burden for sure for years. We will need a lot of effort and knowledge to improve this damage and I hope that the country's economy will no longer be run by those who have completed only party schools and we know where. I therefore support the establishment of this committee in order to identify all relevant facts relating to the issuing of guarantees to the Private Enterprise of the Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" and I hope that the other fellow representatives will also support the establishment of this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21654	Thank you. We have three replicas and two corrections of an incorrect quote. The first one is for Mrs. Katarina Fuchek's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21655	Mr. Vice President, in a debate a colleague had just presented, he was very well aware that in the whole series, let's call each other that argument mentioned some other motives to save Lance and to give guarantees. I will only quote a press conference attended by Mr. Minister at the time, Jurcic, and the question asked by the journalist was this: Now it is clear that the poorly run investment programmes have put Lenac in a situation, and as the state has provided guarantees, will someone answer? Mr. Jurcic's reply: If there is a responsibility, she is at another resolution ministry. The government has provided guarantees on condition that owners also participate in the same amount. The government was not careful about making sure other partners had paid the money. When we realized that the project was going the wrong way we put the brake on... Which means that the well-assessed partners, the well-invested money, the reassurance has no say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've got nowhere to go in the end, we'll admit it. And I think that in this way you can connect the whole series of situations and the facts that have been presented here about the need for real clarification which was, why, rather than calling on workers, to the need to save, to solve, because in fact, the then government and ministers ultimately acknowledge that it is not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21656	Thank you very much. Next to the replica, Mr. Slavko Linic came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21657	We keep saying Victor Lenac is a private company. Then we need to know that his owners decided on a new construction project. Unlike many of you who see the Supreme as the owner, although there may be 1 or 2% shares, the Croatian Government has seen the World Bank through the IFC, the German Development Fund, Raiffeisenbank as serious bankers. And they made a decision on the development project and the Victor Lenca project that destroyed it. Therefore, yes, many of us will wonder how this is possible, the World Bank, the German State Development Fund, HYPO Bank, I apologize, Raiffeisen Bank as the most popular and most prominent bank in Croatia, they decided on this project. Yes, according to you, the government should have said no, we won't be with you, they don't need projects in Croatia, is they, they're hostoples, they're not responsible participants in the project. You know, that's what we need to talk about. And none of the government in the private company took part in the decision-making of the project. Yes, the truth is, the great prominent known bankers were wrong, and then the government had to do everything to save jobs, obviously we failed and that we were responsible for spending some of the state money because the guarantees were charged. So it's ugly when we plant this debate, we plant it. Or maybe because you're protecting Raiffeisen's interests or someone else's. We need to understand, the owners can't escape from responsibility and the owners were... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21658	Thank you very much. The answer to the line, Mr. Marian Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21659	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Linic, the facts are quite different in the case of issuing guarantees to private shipyard Viktor Lenac. The fact is, it was known at that time that the company was in catastrophic condition. It was also known to go bankrupt. So why did the government at that point give that money and that guarantee to Viktor Lenac only you know that, for all of your known reasons. Because today we are establishing an investigative committee only for the reason that taxpayers know where their money went and you are the ones who could have given it to Viktor Lenac or any other company in Croatia, but it is known very well why you gave Viktor Lentz because of your party and private ties with Mr. Vrhovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21660	Correction of incorrect allegations, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21661	Mr. President, here's my colleague, Bekavac, on several occasions, and now in his reply to the replica, he's speaking incorrectly, in fact, he's establishing, he's establishing that exactly friendly ties with Damir Vrhovnik and the members of the government have led to the fact that the Victor Lenac shipyard is being secured by this and these guarantees are being provided. Therefore, all in that tone that he literally and do not list he is pressing charges and he should know that if he is certain that it is his duty, it is your duty under criminal responsibility to choose to file criminal charges. These are not elements for the establishment of a commission. When, the law said exactly when setting up an investigative commission, it is about legality, if you already claim and have such facts, please choose to join the nearest state attorney's office. It is your duty, not here to press charges, that you claim and judge. And you'd judge here's what we see from the reasoning of the motion, you'd judge even the court. Oh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21662	You've corrected his opinion. You've corrected his opinions. Correction of incorrect, moving on, no problem. Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21663	I'd like to correct the two incorrect allegations of a representative of the Bekwarts. The investigation committee is allegedly founded to determine the facts and Mr. Bekavac entirely incorrectly claims that it is obvious, quote his words: that it was not the goal of saving jobs. Nothing's obvious! Apparently, on the basis of many facts in the case, in the case of Victor Lenac, that's exactly what he tried to save. Another of your incorrect allegations is that we didn't remember to clone Mr. Vrhnik's luck apparently. I say it's incorrect, we remembered it, but we were basically destroying such genetic material. Unfortunately, Mr. Vrhovnik was a clone of Kutle and Gucic, there was only a difference between your government and Kutla and ours towards Vrhnik. You gave your people more and more, and covered up theirs, their misdemeanors on condition. And we were before the guarantee was given when it was observed that the crisis was first asked by the Supreme to give up his wages if he wanted to remain that way. And secondly requested his resignation as he requested by the government, under pressure from the government and under pressure from other owners, which is also incorrect, Mr. Vrhnik is not an important owner, other private owners So that's you, that's the difference. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] No friendship.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21664	Thank you. Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21665	I'm correcting the assumption that the government was in charge of everything and everything and it's going to take them years to fix it now. The government wasn't in charge of anything and everything. She was in charge of the Zagreb-Split road among other things. And if she hadn't been in charge, and if that government hadn't had that project of that road, there wouldn't be today. And it's also incorrect that it'll take us years to make it right. No, it's been eight months enough for us to stop all the projects in road construction, in the modernisation of railways and in all the other development projects. It's only eight months.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21666	Mr. Stazic, you're out of context again, as in most cases. You're talking about highways. You, both meteorological and weather opportunities in Dalmatia, would accuse the Croatian government of smoking barrels. That's what you systematically and constantly do. You do it all the time. Always run away from the subject. Sir, Madam Representative Dear Zgrebec. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21667	Well, I'll also correct this finding by my fellow Bekwarts that the government was in charge of everything and everything. That's not true. The government was in charge of specific programmes and projects. In part, she was also in debt because she inherited 9 billion in the 2000 budget. She was also in charge of paying off the insurance savings that were found in 2000 from robbed banks. She's in charge of building roads so that we can rebuild the railways, rebuilding the war of the ruined houses so that in this, at the latest in the coming year, we can finish the renovation. So she wasn't in charge of everything, she was in charge of concrete programs and projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21668	Thank you very much. We've exhausted these corrections. Now he has the word "representative" Mr. Nikola Sopcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21669	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, I support the establishment of an investigative fact-finding committee in connection with the guarantees issued for this private company, Victor Lenac, which is unfortunately in bankruptcy. I believe that the establishment of this committee will help to clear up all public concerns about the reason for the provision of these guarantees, which will ultimately result in State budget funds. It will be established whether the reason for giving these guarantees really was to save jobs. Unfortunately, you can tell by the result that it won't be any of it. Or the reason for this generosity since then, the then Prime Minister, Mr Racan, was a personal friendship with the then director of “Vicor Lenco”. It is nice to maintain friendship but unfortunately this friendship is quite costing the Croatian state. We are also aware of several such attempts, and there was one attempt to establish friendship with the neighbouring country of Slovenia that almost resulted in a violation of part of state territory. At least that didn't happen. Whether the decision to grant guarantees has been influenced by an expert ruling or if it is agreed on pleasant association, on the yacht of Mr Vrhnik, this should be established by this commission. Today, there is also the former President and Vice President of the Croatian Government to admit that they have made a mistake or perhaps made a mistake, but the fact is that the then government was not so generous to other companies in Croatia that also employ Croatian workers is already the best solution of bankruptcy or a little more subtlely called bankruptcy with the reshuffle. Gentlemen, why didn't you make the same mistake with many others as you did with your friend High Priest? The establishment of this only committee of inquiry is necessary for the reason that we stop having state money forever in order to make friends in need or worse, and whether or not this commission is going to be established. The fact is that Mr. Vrhnik is a longtime SDP member as a successful manager, and it would be interesting whether, by chance, he was one of the “Vicor Lenca” leaders, and for some other parties, for example. The Croatian Democratic Community, would the then government, on several occasions, be giving these guarantees. I don't really believe that much. I don't even believe that the number of workers would be affected by that, the number of employees. We know that it was a practice during the former government that, after finding a state audit in a municipality where a certain item of the 200 kuna budget may have been breached, crime police sent, that she regularly sent, salted crime police to cities usually again where HDZ is in power. This was regularly followed by all the media, and all the investigations ended without results. How, then, it could have been said that a mortgage on the maritime good was entered for the loan insurance, where the Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports explicitly states that no right of ownership can be acquired on the maritime goods. It is interesting that colleagues and colleagues from the opposition parties, especially from the SDP, all agree with the establishment of this election commission but do not believe in its good intentions in advance. Gentlemen, if it's all clear, let's start this committee. If everything works out, there's nothing to be afraid of. So let's not turn our discussion into other topics. On the topics of the highway, from the foundation for children of Croatia, and I do not know everything that has not been mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21670	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. Mr. Slavko Linic first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21671	It is a very ugly habit for many of us to try to challenge Croatia. Well, here's a chance, I've heard that a lot today, and here I come from Rijeka. The Rivers had everything, and the others had nothing. Since these are indeed false, that we do not know or want to know or we want to deliberately challenge Croatian regions, which is not very pleasant if we are parliamentary representatives then I must say. It's not a 10 billion shipbuilding. It's not a 12 billion farm. But it is there if you remember what Minister Shuker often attacks as a failure of forgiveness for Croatia's request where we tried to forgive 25 billion, but we concluded because everyone was right, we concluded 2 and a half billion. So we've been giving help here. I'm not talking about bank recovery. I'm not talking about “The glass Lipik”. Yeah, go ahead. But what did we get from the bankruptcy? Recovered subject. That's it. But he went into his private pockets. Private pockets. That's what you say. And I'd say, "No. Jobs were saved in “The glass Lipik”. We're not talking about a Zadar company known for its guarantees from the former government. We're not going to mention it because, also in agreement with the banking system, a huge part of it was made. Are we going to talk about “Dioni”. She also ended up in bankruptcy. She's out of bankruptcy. It's all government activities. In various parts of Croatia. From Slavonia, Dalmatia, Istria. If we're going to talk about the Istrian Bank and the problem that came up at the Istrian Bank. This huge economic policy. Some guarantees, some bankruptcy, some bankruptcy, a good business subject, and some forgiveness of debts. It was the Government of the Republic of Croatia's coalition programme. It was a program. Because it was a battle for a job, for a company, for a social product.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21672	Thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Sopcic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21673	My colleague Linić was not an attempt to challenge Croatia because today it is the fact that the workers of “Vicor Lenco” mainly of people from Rijeka have nothing from the whole story. And Mr. Vrhovnik, your friend has a villa on the caves where he enjoys his stay, but he wrote it down on his daughter just in case.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21674	Replica is Mr. Zdenko Antasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21675	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like to rephrase an esteemed colleague in one perhaps a little funny way. Namely he said in his statement that it was nice to maintain friendships. It's true. It's nice sometimes for people to have problems. However, it is much more seductive, and it is much more discreet to maintain godmothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21676	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21677	/speaker not enabled/
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21678	The replica of Mrs. Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21679	Mr. Vice President, when a colleague spoke of double standards, mentioning a state audit that very much meant driving certain institutions to act very quickly in some way to call marginal phenomena. But in any case they need to be sanctioned, they need to be evasive. Here's how respectable the institutions that were founded for that purpose and that in some ways made by the Andor, as the government respected the findings of state audits. Here's the finding of a state resistance. The State should not issue guarantees to the shipyard because it has no impact on its work, business, business decisions and wages. It's back in 2002. So for 2002, the 2003 report for 2002. However, in July 2003, the government took part in an investment project of $25 million with two and a half million through HBORA. And it is hastening to pay the money before the agreement does so to co-owners who, as such, cared to support the investment programme in the same way. Here are those institutions so that we don't have to have a debate here whose work we respect and act through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21680	Thank you. Correction of Ms. Zeljka Antunovic's entacidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21681	I actually have three incorrect allegations. How many MPs are holding the hearing will show first. It is incorrect that the initial agreement with the borders on borders with Slovenia predicted that part of the territory was given up. On the contrary, I can talk about those who know more about it than we do politicians. The border shall be established without almost one metre in favour or at the expense of any of the judicial countries. These are the facts, these are the other political insinuations. The second incorrect assumption is that the government of Ivica Racan would not give any HDZ director or president of the administration a guarantee. That's incorrect. I'll shake Djuru Djukovic, Folia Plast, Mentioned and so on. And that is the exact assumption that they would not give either the SDP or the HDZ director if they were incompetent, if they were willing to put it in the pocket. And we would only give guarantees if there was a chance of saving the company, one way or the way that a fellow Linic had said it a little bit. And investigate, but investigate the Supreme One who enrolled or the villa, not the Croatian Government, because it is not the same at all. All your insinuations and friendships are insinuations about a former friendship that broke just because of Victor Lance. And your friendships continue today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21682	Thank you very much. A friend is the one who must bear your success. Mr. Szazic, you are at least invited to warn because you systematically violate the Rules of Procedure in this House. You understand. And now the word has ten minutes, Mr. Representative Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21683	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Vice President, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Here, after eight hours of debate and I personally dominoe are on the list of those who are here accused of being prosecuted, or convicted, or convicted. Why do I say that, because on behalf of the Democratic Centre, I will say that the Democratic Centre supports the formation of this committee. Or this history, which needs to be explored under the circumstances under which state guarantees were given to the private company Viktor Lenac. I've been thinking about how to actually start this debate after 8 hours when a lot of words of different intensity and content have fallen, and I'm going to sum it up in one sentence. It's humanly wrong, but it's diabolical in sin. It's more like you all know that saying. There are a number of people here who have been called because of the granting of guarantees because of the ease of bail and who have essentially admitted that the government has made a mistake because none of the present have denied Mr. Glavas when he said that the government has confirmed that the former members of the government had been the mistake of being dragged in somehow to make such a decision. No one denied it. So I think that part of these people are already automatically admitting that mistake. And that's at the beginning of the debate on the formation of this commission pretty good old. It means things are going well. Only after these 8 hours of debate can we conclude that it is good that this commission is formed, because imagine the situation of this debate being passed on to Croatia outside this room. I think we could talk again about a kind of civil war among Croats, if we now suspect one another who is guilty of this situation. There's a clear definition of intent here, and they don't need to distort here. During the entire debate, there were many calls for violations of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't hear anyone here say that he mentioned forgotten citizens who were also actually hurt by everything that happened to them around Victor Lance and other cases. The Democratic Center is not for this commission to be his role to judge, and to be a witch hunt. On the contrary, there should be a commission that will establish the truth about these circumstances. My colleagues and colleagues know the situation in Croatia well, and you know that our present and our past is burdened by many truths that we have not talked about. They may never speak in this House, but science and history will show and speak about it. Maybe even it's a good thing we don't open all these truths, because I'm afraid our fragile backs aren't strong enough and powerful enough to bear all these truths. I think the truth about Victor Lentz is that we can all endure and that this isn't about persecuting the former government, but that it's about the basic intensity to see which way the money went. Is it easy, given tenedentically, it still needs to be determined by the commission. The democratic centre for this commission is because the virus of social and economic uncertainty has spread from Viktor Lenco to the rest of Croatia. Especially in those areas from which co-operatives and employees of these cooperatives, who did not receive their salaries, companies that took out loans to probably buy the material they used in the performance of the works at Victor Lenco, etc. So this virus of social and economic uncertainty needs to be prevented, there's no one here to find hurt if the government and this Parliament want to prevent this virus from being destroyed once, no matter who initiated it, that virus. Furthermore, the saga of Victor Lance lasts a long, really long time. There is a witness, there are witnesses of Croatian media, for almost two, three years we have a political economic soap opera with a sad ending. Unfortunately, this is about the lives of concrete people who, at this moment while we are discussing suffering, suffer these consequences. What do you actually get out of all this boredom to see? To see that the state was easy, the shovel put money and state guarantees on one door, and the other was untraceable despite the opposition of the people of the profession. I gave myself an assignment, so I went through three portals. Portal: Croatibiz, HTnet and New List Sait. On page 11, it was written here, it was written by fellow journalists, what seemed, when it seemed, who made the decisions, who opposed those decisions. I believe that the commission will benefit from this kind of material just to come to the truth about what is killing us. Keep going. I personally consider this initiative to be one of the activities that goes in this sense for us to launch Croatia. It was a pre-election call from the Croatian Democratic Community, but I think we are all Isoto here to start Croatia. Croatia cannot run untrues, Croatia cannot start by pushing things under the carpet, but by the truth. Let's go. Let's start with Victor Lance. I am for it that tomorrow if you want to form again a commission that wants to get to the truth, which will free us and run Croatia, you have my support as well. What further can be concluded from this? To conclude that the Croatian government, the past, was one mother, dear mother, indeed who loved her son or daughter, what we will call "Lance" and that she was a stepmother to many. Here it was now trying to emphasize how it was, that it wasn't like that. However, we have as many examples as you want. I'll give you an example of Slavonski Brod. counterpart Antunovic mentioned "Djuru Djakovic" here. Well, you know what. Here, I've got a report here that the board president gave me. The only guarantee the former government has given is the guarantee for overcoming indivisibility approved in 2002 in the amount of EUR 3 million "Djuro Djakovic - Montaž" which is clearly returned by Djuro Đaković - Montaža. They don't return Croatian citizens. There are colleagues from the Slavon ship area who will surely confirm this statement of mine. Furthermore, the funds were given as a guarantee to Đuri Djakovic because his business partner...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21684	It's not about Djura Djakovic, so let's get back to the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21685	Okay, thanks. Keep going. Based on this, it can be clearly read that the former government, friendly and clan, perhaps even other links, were criteria for obtaining loans, or guarantees. Keep going. A man wonders who can mortgage something that belongs to the common good. So, who can give the marine good? And what must all Croatian citizens today be interested in, and what are their obligations under the guarantees issued, how much will their standard fall in the future, what their life needs will they not be able to satisfy? I just mentioned this private-owned company, which has guarantees, and we have state-owned companies in 100%, where the state didn't want to give guarantees. I think another situation needs to be observed in this context, which is the rescue of the Rijeka Bank in which crime is recorded. Of course, the County Bank wasn't supported. And now we in Slavonia are wondering why this bank was saved despite the crime, and the other one was released to fail? And to the very end, clearly about this could be discussed for a long and long time, there are no dear colleagues and colleagues, ours and yours. We exist and the truth about us, and the question is how much we want to know that truth about us. And that's what our problems are all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21686	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Mrs. Zeljka Antunović, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21687	Let me talk about something, my colleague led me to it. There are always two terms to be talked about here today: guilt and responsibility. You said, well, some people admitted that they were guilty because no one had denied Mr. Glavas. Mr. Glavas is unnecessary and impossible to deny. What the former government minister is talking about, and it does, those who are and those who were not in the economic corridors are responsible. It's true. All former government ministers feel co-responsibility because one of the projects we've been conducting unfortunately failed. The vast majority of the projects we went into with the risk, as there was a risk, and the Victoria Lance project ended well. You mentioned one. However, it was not important to give only a guarantee by taking care of whether it was HDZ or SDP, whether we liked it or not. Any guarantee before a decision is taken, or below the guarantee under the guarantee, must have some business plan. Djuro Djakovic is returning the guarantee neatly because the Croatian state has given him much more than the guarantee, giving him a part of the perspective in overall development through the budget and all other policies. No one pushed under the carpet. None of those who feel responsible today seem to me at least to have pushed this story under the rug. On the contrary, we say that there are all documents, that they are public, that they were public, that they are available to the Croatian government and to Croatian investigative authorities, the MUP, the lawyers and all and that everything can be determined. If there are blames and if there are responsibilities, and the investigative committee will contribute at least to that, although we have no objection. We in the SDP expect this and we want to finally get these false accusations on our account because of this case taken down. As for preventing economic uncertainty, that's exactly what it was...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21688	Finish it, ma'am. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21689	I'm just finishing my sentence. It was one of the reasons why it went to greater risks, to get rid of the cooperatives, to get rid of the workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21690	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21691	Well, well-respected colleagues. I have no doubt that the last government had no agendas, no budgets, no people who gave you these suggestions. But at the end of the road, we see that one mistake has been made and there is no need to look at this by an inquisition team who wants to grab someone by the throat now and strangle them. On the contrary, let us have the strength to know the truth about ourselves even though it is the truth about me. And that's the basis of my commitment here and in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21692	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21693	Yes, it's easy to use words of truth, the truth, so we're making hate again. County bank no, Rijeka yes. How can we say that? How can we say that? Who decided to take the County to bankruptcy? A government that was enthroned until 2000, as bankruptcy was previously carried out. What the coalition government was doing paid for the insurance savings, and tried simply to pay off the truth from the loan. About the Rijeka Bank, what do we have to talk about about the Rijeka Bank? We've been repeating for three years that a single kuna taxpayer didn't pay. And only the government has shown how he can handle the crisis. By selling, they embezzled bank officials, and the citizens didn't pay for it, the state budget didn't pay for it, the DAP didn't pay for it. That's what the coalition government knew how to do. What are you trying to say? If we weren't supposed to work, that's unfortunate, Linic is from Rijeka, so he did it not because he's doing business for the government, but because Rijeka is the Bank of Rijeka. It's not a good truth, it's not a good thing, it's hate, it's impatient, but I hope that once and for all we get a report from the Rijeka Bank, we can break the story once about whether the taxpayer paid or didn't pay the Rijeka Bank. Well, we can't speak as a coalition government, we don't want to talk about whether someone led the Dubrovnik Bank and the crisis right and whether the County was leading it right. We don't want to. Those are the past. We were just talking about how it should be paid to simply save, and we paid them, unlike the former government who didn't pay for it, so the citizens were left without insurance savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21694	Answer Mr. Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21695	Dear counterpart Linic, the success of a government is also measured not only by how she realised her plan and programme, but also by how she solved some of the problems she inherited from the former government. That's one thing. The other thing, I really don't advocate any hate anywhere on, starting from that micro-level to the macro-level. In addition, the past government did not enter the airspace, it entered into one specific space with concrete content, some formerly worked, not all the bad things the former did, as not all the bad things you did.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21696	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Ivana Sucec-Thrakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21697	I thank Mr. Vice President, and I look forward to making my modest contribution to this individual case, which some want to characterise by political accounting, but I look forward to the fact that this individual case is a final account with a nepotism policy, with a policy of volunteerism, with a policy of subjectivism in the conduct of state and its public functions, of course all on the burden of Croatian poverty and other Croatian taxpayers. I said deliberately Croatian poor people because people with the most modest incomes are those who are most likely to carry out all their obligations and pay those bills in which the VAT is also in, which is alimony in the state register with which, of course, experts and those who are less or less available in the way that they think is best, and someone might understand today that we had these or the same basis for deciding, so on the basis of them, we decided that we were in a class logic from the gymnasium, so those logical figures, when we have two premises and a conclusion, we can have two incorrect premises and a precise conclusion, or two accurate receipts and an incorrect conclusion. That's an excuse for decisions that weigh millions. So, I can't accept it, and I don't care what one of the owners said, and I think this commission will reveal both the way and the price of entering into the ownership of those owners who are there today, so, as well as how much they became owners. So I'm not interested in their reason why the government was convinced that guarantees were to be given, were they not at risk. So whoever gives the money, he takes all the risk on himself, so even when you're a citizen, you go to the bank and ask for a loan, of course you'll say everything about yourself, that you'll be giving the projects, of course, the paper bears everything. But the one who carries the risk of paying at the end and does not yet have his own money, but who has all the money, so for the greater good, is going to take a fat look at what he's giving money and, of course, when he does, to control its intended or non-intentional spending and have a control mechanism, see the effects of these invested money. All that in this case is missing. I repeat, this individual case should be an example and a general one, so to speak, a phenomenon that should no longer be allowed to happen, and I adhere to all of those that should not only be questioned by Victor Lenac, we will be the first to discuss it again, because this commission, with the consent of all, will be appointed, and given the availability of the data, I assume that we will get a report very quickly and that all those in Croatia will act in power, and it is not only the Government that has all the leverage of the government. The government is one of three levers of state government. Therefore, it has this executive function and some mechanisms which could further, with the commission, shed light on and light on and potentially detect those who have violated the laws of the state of Croatia, but other than laws which have been broken or not, we must also talk about a general responsibility which has several elements. So other than that so-called. Criminal, criminal or other moral responsibility exists, but there is also political responsibility, it is not political persecution, but whoever acts as political function also has political responsibility for what he has done and also in the sphere of funding. And we heard the data, of course, and we heard business failures or company conditions. I've got a lot of doctors here, it's very simple to explain to a simple man, so it's like having a patient who's very sick and instead of being re-valved, a doctor puts a difficult task of some kind and a patient dies. That's what happened in Lance. Thus, it was misjudged that the company that was wounded by a business failure was capable, at the same time, of returning to the situation where it was and being developed, of course with suspicious data from those who were to carry it out. And when all those big money is divided by the number of people who work today, and the ones who did it the shorter time, so they're doing it, they're very, very expensive jobs. And I'm inclined to say that now it's a matter of opportunistic cost, my fellow economists know it, and also one of the possible questions, so where would that money be better fertilized, more returned, I speak from society as a whole, because Victor Lenac is one company. Every worker in Victor Lentz is a story for himself and his family. But overall society and all taxpayers are probably just as important as they are, and that relationship is therefore very important. And, don't be sorry to tell me, when you're all talking about friendship, that friendship is a victim, and we've had opportunities to read in the papers, so the former Prime Minister has made a great sacrifice by being and being on a yacht, because I said it, I've read it, so I quote a newspaper that everyone can find. So he had to sleep under the yacht table because there was no room, so that's what they said, demagogue excuses then gave, and even today we heard something, which should be justified, therefore, one investment that doesn't have an excuse. And that is why I look forward to the commission, I suppose, in a few months, and in the beginning of next year to substantiate this Croatian Assembly and the data and all the public, and given the Law on Right of Access to Information, it will be notified, and then it will be seen that today's debate was not without meaning and that it had a foothold, if anything else should have happened, but would prevent such phenomena in the future and warn those who act in public functions, so that they must take care of objective circumstances more than subjective assessments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21698	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First Mr. Mato Churchman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21699	Thank you, Vice President. It's easy to give guarantees, and then it falls on the load... /The speaker's off, so it's back on./... So one of the most difficult ones is, you can easily give guarantees, and then it falls on the burden of the Croatian poor. I'll tell you, anyone who knows more about it will confirm to you that guarantees are not given lightly and that every government is tempted to give every guarantee. Every guarantee is a risk. I also want to tell you that the guarantees of "Lance" were even less a risk than many other guarantees, because behind Lenca were four banks of the world format and 40 years of successful work compared to all other Croatian shipyards where the state spent 30 years on an annual basis, a great deal of money. Lenac made a profit for 40 years and had four banks behind him and was less of a risk to the government than it was to guarantee in many other cases. So she's not giving out easy guarantees, and none of them are going to give up. And listen when it comes to the burden of the Croatian poor, I think it's abuse of those beautiful Croatian words. Everything eventually falls on the burden of Croatian citizens in a stable manner. If it is about guarantees, then the biggest burden fell on the back of Croatian citizens in 1999. By guarantees we had the biggest problem in 99 years and each year, there is a general problem by guarantees, but it is part of the risk that the government takes both the former and the future and needs to take over, because ultimately the effect of the guarantees given by the state is greater than the damage that always occurs in a real way, because it is always a constant risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21700	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ivana Sucec-Thrakostane's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21701	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21702	You need... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21703	Yeah, maritime well, I read that. I thought maybe you'd give me more notice that they gave me financial guarantees to say so, because when it comes to insurance, for example. You have and reassurance in this case we had only insurance and that Croatian state so you can't convince me that it wasn't easy, so I'll repeat it because it was admitted publicly, and today we've heard more than once, that they were surprised why they supported it, because yet this elaborate and this whole story proved to be not good enough. And I'm asking you today, are you going to tell me how much they're going to pay out of these failed ones to say business or unprofitable money of that world bank, and how much the Croatian state is going to pay from the budget to the burden I'm going to repeat, the Croatian poor people because most of the population in Croatia with incomes is like that, it was on television last night publicly said, which ensures at least coverage of the basic costs if the two are working so they have four family members, because we've come out of the war and because of such failures which is not only Victor Lenac will admit it, of course, the poor and I won't talk about the debts and everything else. So we're poor because we're in charge of at least $6,000, today each of us and the children who are just about to be born. That's a fact. If it's good or bad and it's rich, I say it's poor. If we have to work for generations in advance to return failed investments, one of which is the state guarantee for Victor Lenac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21704	Thank you. Replica Mr. Krono Markovinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21705	Well, I'd like to rephrase to my colleague about the difficulty, a little explanation for people. I think everything can be very simple. Or is it Mr. Damir Vrhovnik, who is going to show this, was some superman who's been through or out of Racan's government 12 times, which is then bad for the government or the government, the former Racan government was in contact with Mr. Vrhovnik, and that's it. It's the only dilemma that exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21706	Thank you very much. ... Replica Mr. Joseph Leco. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21707	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Sučec-Tracostanec or does not know the difference between ownership of shares and ownership of companies, or it deliberately confuses the public. That's a huge difference. The Croatian Government must take care of every trading company regardless of who owns the securities, regardless. Don't let God start taking care of you, say, at the Business Bank or Ina, no matter who owns the paper. That's a very important difference. This is a bad message to Croatian securities owners of companies and shares. As a result, it would be better to end it with the competent state authorities to establish irregularities rather than disqualify anyone in the Parliament especially not the Government who certainly had good intentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21708	The answer, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21709	Thank you, Mr. Representative. ... Which reminds me of what I was going to say in my main presentation, but I cut short so I skipped it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the form of ownership is totally irrelevant. Is it private property, combined, d.o.o., d.d., at all, irrelevant. So property, I know it assumes responsibility, not only is it such a right to have, I know it well. However, it is important that there are no shares in this company, not one share in any form, so the state is not in any state ownership, and we will talk about that list of companies where the state was then able to fill out money from 50 percent or 80 percent. So the form of ownership is it private, whether it owns securities or the whole of society is totally irrelevant. It's important that there's a legal entity, that it exists as some kind of production organization that's failed, that has spent the money that was supposed to be used to create profits, and it didn't even serve to cover losses, because it's at a greater loss than it's earned. The question is, where's the money? Nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21710	Thank you very much. He has the word Mr. Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21711	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Listening to today's debate and I'm going to do mine a little bit differently than I thought yesterday, so I'm going to represent this Victoria Lenac operation as one performance in three acts. In the first act, there was one party, one coalition that presented and urged voters to trust her in its pre-election programme in 2000, and the main poster, the main call for the show, was "fair". We couldn't lift our heads without seeing that title, the poster "honestly." And they got the trust of Croatian voters, that they won't win when they say they will work fair. In the second act comes the plot of the store, of course the most prominent actors are the prime minister, the deputy prime minister of the government, the finance minister who decided to make one poor man the manager of the year first, and then the rich one. But why not, it's about a friend and a friend. And here comes the third act, the investigative committee, the hand of justice, where facts are to be determined and all the circumstances as they come. What would you call that play, and what a different tragedy. When you laugh, you laugh with your tears. And the authors of this show are the honest ones from the beginning of the story, and the content is very interesting. Maybe he'll need a patent. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia gives taxpayers money to its second and friend Vrhnik, owner, co-owner or how you want shipyards, if not even the majority owner is not that important. He's the main person and the main hero of that story on that side. And the treat is that the guarantee offered by the mortgage is good for the sea. And imagine all the risks that are at stake here, which is the risk of the Supreme. He may lose what is not his, and that is the maritime good, a particle under the sea's good. And the state can get what's already hers, but of course it has to pay for it. And in that explanation we see that in the bankruptcy process the total claim of the Croatian state is 320 million kuna 479 thousand 660.25 kuna. 320 million kuna is if we look at what the net average salary is in the 5th month 4000 and 90 kuna, it is no less than 78 thousand and 356 average salaries in the Republic of Croatia. That's a little picturesque, to see what that amount is. From that amount, these 500 workers could receive a salary for 13 years to do nothing or those thousands of workers who were then able to receive a salary of 6 and a half years. And they ended up in a few years, and of course, that money unfortunately didn't go to them, it went into private pockets. And I hope that fellow Stazic will once write this theatre piece based on true facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21712	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21713	It is an incorrect allegation of a respected colleague that Mr. Damir Vrhovnik, in the second act, became rich because he was said to have been enriched by Racan's government. Mr. Vrhovnik came to his property and to his wealth like all the tycoons in this country at the time of the HDZ government. So the HDZ allowed him to privatise, the HDZ allowed him to be rich, then HDZ's government, and it had nothing to do with Racan's government. The tycoon, like any other tycoon, has become Mr. Supreme.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21714	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21715	It's an incorrect finding that the workers of "Lance" are 6 years of getting paid in height, I'd say, paid off by guarantees. The salary in Croatia is obtained in gross amount, and if you calculate it, then you will see that it is a little less than 3 years old, and that is the problem of agony because it is the largest part of the guarantees and the day for the workers' salaries "Lance". Therefore, you'd be begging for accurate calculations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21716	Replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21717	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thought actually what's going on today was the only show. I mean, since we should choose that commission today, and the grades are already up front. I'm interested in the only thing, and I look forward to the thing that the promoter is willing to examine who and whose friends were in the private companies until 2000. I believe that colleagues on the left or on the right, depending on how they look, will support the amendment, which we have now received on the table, the HSS that this is an election, excuse me, an investigative commission or someone else actually examines those facts. In fact, let's see where your friends or friends are, as someone says and whose side they were on getting this or some other guarantee. I don't really understand why certain evaluations are already in advance, if we're going to form a commission. I wonder, and I believe we're all clear that we don't really need a commission. Because then what to complain about when someone says that this is about pure politicisation because the argument is that what is pre-assembled, without the commission or any kind of expertise, if you want a political team, is that it's any kind of evaluation. Because that actually means that things are prejudged. If that is not the case, then I ask my colleagues and colleagues to refrain from the grades that should be the commission's job I hope we choose on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21718	Replica response, respected representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21719	Comrade Lucin, no evaluations have been given. Estimates were given, evaluations were established. And the evaluation will be given by an investigative committee, and these are not assessments that should go to court, but assessments of the reasonable doubt that should be given for this investigation committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21720	Replica, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21721	Thank you, Mr. President. It is good that Mr. Nenadić changed his appearance at the last minute because I think it is not good, that it has already been a little hard that you all had prepared texts that you have read. Starting with Mr. Glavas, and it's really not given enough drama. I also understand that the word "fair" on those posters was hard to fall or hard to fall. But believe me, both you and we need to continue as politicians, as responsible people to deal with full responsibility, and it remains current. I'd also like to tell you that the government really at least, I can say, in the last term when I was in it, wasn't giving money where some people were similar to her. I suggest that the commission chosen here based on these mass remarks today that the government only provided guarantees where some people in the coalition were, make some commission and let it be analysed how many guarantees the local community received, depending on who was in charge of it. I assure you that several guarantees went where the opposition was in power and it is not correct to say so. There are representatives here who have come to me and warned about problems, and we have solved these problems as we knew and could independently from where, from which anyone party was. And to conclude, you say, the money went into private pockets. Watch out, that's a hard charge, people. If you know that, you must go to the police immediately, you must go to the public prosecutor's office immediately. You have authority, you're in power, you run those levers of power. Don't ask the investigative committees for it, go after it if it went anywhere in other people's pockets, but don't say it in your head.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21722	Replica response, respected representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21723	Mr. President, the text that was prepared has been prepared by the former government because what it did is written and it doesn't need a better text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21724	Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21725	Mr. President, a lot has been said today about this Investigation Commission and Victor Lenac but it seems equally important to me to point out some of the facts relating to the establishment of this Research Commission. In fact, the first and the basic doubt and the question of the granting of guarantees arises from one fact established by the State audit. The State Audit stated in its report that beyond the criteria that exist in the Decision on guarantee criteria, the Government of the Republic of Croatia granted guarantees to the private company Viktor Lenac, which is largely owned by private persons and thus by other foreign persons. Therefore, if the Government did not respect what it had to respect in the award of guarantees because all units of local self-government, county, cities, municipalities had to respect and because the government called for a decision on these criteria when it refused to guarantee them, so the Government called for that decision on criteria, so the government itself did not call for that decision on these same criteria in the case of Viktor Lenco, and not referring to that decision to those private persons being granted a guarantee of 364 million kuna, as already said here on several occasions from 2001 to 2003. We had an opportunity to hear from counterpart Antunovic that the government insisted on cutting Mr. Vrhnik's salary and insisting that he resign. Yeah, but when, when did this happen? The moment the public pressure was so unbearable for the government itself that she could not defend her friendship with Damir Vrhovnik. July 28, 2003. Much behind the allocation of all the funds allocated in million amounts to Viktor Lenc, much after that, months after the last transition, I do not mention that I am not dragging into that transaction that was granted in the 12th month of December 2003, so after it was clear that the coalition power had lost the elections and after it was clear that there was no moral and any other right to make such decisions, it is quite clear that under the pressure of the public, it was really quite late that the salary of Vrhovnik, which amounted to more than 100 thousand kuna per month, is calculated only in 2001 when you started giving guarantees, in 2001, 2002 and 2003, how much this gentleman, director of the company received money a month, i.e. the sum of how many million kunas was obtained because he was headed by a company that he brought before bankruptcy. Societies that received aid from the State Treasury, the State Budget. In contrast, many municipalities, cities were rejected for their infrastructure projects, which had run for taxpayers living in their municipalities and cities and counties to have a better standard of living, which is 10s, hundreds, thousands of people whom this government did not want to give guarantees, for example, for waterways, for sewers, for what it really means to improve living standards. The SDP gentlemen say we were thinking of workers and of cooperatives. That's not true. You know why it's incorrect? Because these same cooperatives that you're calling on today have published an open letter to Mr. Sanader's new government and the state's attorney's office where they have made clear what they think of your concern for the cooperative, and you've tricked them in a way that you've forced them to withdraw their duties, these same cooperatives have withdrawn their duties because they've had a promise that their marketings will be paid in 12 months in wars. It was not done, you simply deceived them, these same cooperatives today file private lawsuits against Damir Vrhovnik as director of Lenco and seek in court the basis of the law to return their funds, claims. What is quite clear is that I have here a letter from some of these cooperatives you are referring to, but I will quote a text from the New List that speaks very clearly about your concern for the cooperatives and Viktor Lenc, says: "In our knowledge Damir Vrhovnik has concluded a plea agreement and a debt settlement agreement and has certified all this with the public notary in 355 cases", it is about the co-operatives for 121 million kunas and something more. So far, only Bogomil Choko has succeeded in his lawsuit, and it is interesting that the vast majority of deals and contracts were signed around July 28, 2003. On that very day, Vrhnik informed the chairman of the Supervisory Board of Viktor Lencarl Zacell about his unrequited resignation. So on July 28, 2003, after the co-operatives were cheated. I quote: "This time it remained in memory of a heartwarming message that his resignation will help the Government of the Republic of Croatia to help Viktor Lenac as well as other Croatian shipyards, it seems that everything else is on cheated co-operatives and courts." So this is from the New List I was just quoting the part to deny all those allegations that you were taking care of the cooperatives, how you were taking care of what their future would be, that's simply incorrect, and that's why we need to set up this investigation committee. In the same text, it is said that the question is indeed where this money went, where the 364 million kuna that went towards Lenco ended, this will be determined, the Commission will determine. We do not know now, because we do not know because we do not have knowledge and it is questionable according to the findings of the state audit, so we need to establish who will harden the investigation committee that will report this Parliament and the Croatian public. It is clear from the findings of the state audit that the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not respect the decisions and criteria by which it was able to grant guarantees and why. So, there remains only speculation on the basis of friendship with Mr Racan and Linic, and that is, if you have no other criteria and you have no basis for giving a guarantee, then what is left is the other criterion, which, if it is not by the decision of the criteria, retains the guarantee, according to which criterion Mr. Churchvenac, Mr. Linic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21726	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21727	A colleague Matušić made a fundamental claim incorrectly, given the guarantee to a private person is not, Viktor Lenac has legal status as well as any other public company in the Republic of Croatia, as the Bank of Business as well as everyone else. So don't go any further from the wrong thesis. It is incorrect that guarantees were given to a private person.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21728	Replications. First, respected representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21729	Mr. President, I think you can praise this practice that we mostly go with replicas because it's far better for a parliamentary life and other than to go with some credentials that are not and that also gives the speaker the opportunity to respond. That's what I'm saying. It is a private company, Viktor Lenac, that you must not distinguish and not distinguish private companies and state-owned companies when it comes to guarantees. In Europe, you would fall immediately if you did. In addition, gentlemen, we will be a completely private economy, and needlessly your government has accepted by 31 December this year to privatise 800 companies and up to 30. Six next year, all of it, and it'll all be private. Well, privatisation is your policy. Why do you constantly unnecessarily stress that sin is a guarantee in the private company? A lot of people got it. The guarantee is good or not, depending on how anyone used it, whether it's a private or state-owned company. Furthermore, look, the government should not have given Victor Lentz guarantees, certain criteria, conclusions, etc. If Victor Lenac did not meet these criteria, believe me, no Croatian shipyard would satisfy him. Viktor Lenac is the best shipyard for 40 years, with all references, and in the rest of Croatia the state-owned Croatia spends a great deal of money annually. Do not say that municipalities and cities were rejected simultaneously for infrastructure guarantees. For the plumbing, the sewers. So please, that's why you don't give your colleague state guarantees. Those who do not know how to solve the problem of water or sewerage without state guarantee should resign immediately. Because it's easy to solve without any problems. And all that stuff just doesn't lead to the real problem this way. And the real problem is actually efficiency in general.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21730	Reply to the replica, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21731	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, this revitalization of private and other ownership by Mr. Church is indeed inappropriate. Whether this government's goal is to privatise, and what the goal is, how many companies, to privatise, it has nothing to do with giving guarantees. This does not mean that the Croatian government will act like you and its friends to guarantee companies that are in decline, which are ahead of bankruptcy. They won't get out of trouble. So it certainly won't be the policy of this government. As for the guarantees. You know very well that units of local self-government can be entrusted only with guarantees from the Croatian government. You know that very well. You know what a consolidated budget is, you had opportunities, you had opportunities to speak. Therefore, you know very well how to be in charge. Right, consent yes, but it all comes in, you know how it all goes into a consolidated budget. So, you don't have to justify yourself and... because that's exactly what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21732	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21733	Thank you very much. Dear fellow respected. Which means giving guarantees to private companies based on friendship and without criteria, you will only see in the right sense when we get a guarantee analysis to private firms by 2000. And you'll see what it's about. That guarantees were given to companies that don't have employees. At least there were thousands and more people trying to save themselves here. And you will see, I hope, given that the promoter has accepted it, that it will be examined and guaranteed by 2000, in fact, that only that story until 2000 does not hold water, or as far as the criteria are concerned, or as far as any of them are concerned, so to speak of principled attitudes, and as far as friendships are concerned, you will see that they were very, very present. Take the end of "The People's News" by 2000, so look, you'll see. It's easy to read, and it'll all be clear to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21734	Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21735	Thank you. Comrade Lucin, you mentioned the year 2000, so I'm interested in the year you mentioned 2000. I don't mind if you ask for the establishment of the investigation committees, etc. But it's interesting that you didn't want to, you could have started many investigative committees from 2000 to 2003. Among other things, you could have set up an investigative commission in the case of the sale of the Excelsior Hotel. But you didn't do it because it's again a friend of Mr. Linic and Mr. Racan's. Again, it is about one malversion of a financial woman who is not known in other cases as she is unknown to Croatian... But you just didn't want to. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] It was on the agenda, you didn't want, you didn't give the green light, unlike what Mr. Arlovic said that the SDP in principle supported the establishment of these investigative committees, you simply didn't do it. Because again it's about friendship, again it's about a malversion, that the state budget is damaged, that the people who worked down there are damaged, etc. So, of course, we will encourage the establishment of an investigative commission now that we are in a position. However, at that moment when this was indeed relevant for Croatian tourism and for the Croatian economy, you did not want to do so at the time, and that should be said clearly, and there are clear reasons why you did not want to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21736	Next replica, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21737	Here, we're slowly bringing the debate into the same tone. It's the most common word I've ever seen in my colleague's con. You'll allow me, fraud is a felony. Therefore, I ask my colleague to immediately file a criminal prosecution report next to the Committee, for fraud is being prosecuted. The scam's on the run. And the fact that you've been trying to transfer the criminal responsibility all day, not transfer it, determine, judge and everything else, that's the worst, that's the worst thing we've witnessed all day today. And our biggest investigation committee document will be today's record, because you condemned us. And we say, what we're going to, I'm going to personally read, this today's report to the State's Attorney's Office. Because you have so many documents, so much evidence, so many claims that I really think this should be done next to the commission and the State's Attorney's office, and today you've found that out. When we talk about fraud, about co-operative fraud, where did you get to call the government? Where did you have to call the government? You will allow it. It is the guarantees that provide for such wages, and parts of the believers, and parts of the believers. And what didn't end, which doesn't worry about bankruptcy, and no one wants to talk about bankruptcy anymore, it's not about workers and creditors where the cooperatives are, we have to talk about it, I'm not talking about fraud. But when you name someone applicants, you really have to be responsible, you really have to be responsible. So, I don't think you could have been responsible enough, I advise you to look for a lawyer, he'll be responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21738	Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21739	Mr. Linic, I really have the right to think and I think this is about fraud and robbery and I have the right to think. But just to answer when you asked, where did the fraud come from, then I'll read you the part that was written by one of the cooperatives, asking to protect their rights. One sentence reads: "The deal was signed the day before Mr. Vrhnik's resignation, he says "we were deceived by it, because we had to withdraw our duties immediately the day later the shipbuilding director resigned, and soon the shipyard went bankrupt". So this statement signed, this is a statement, I'm talking about the context that this is about fraud and robbery.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21740	Comrade Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21741	Victor Lenac is a context.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21742	Please. Please, gentlemen, counsellors. Proposer, respected representative Branimir Glavas. By the way, gentlemen, we're only going to finish this tonight with a small time shift from the usual scheduled until 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21743	Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to take advantage of my business opportunities to look back at a few of my classmates from the SDP ranks. Let's say Mr. Vidovic said HDZ allowed him to privatise... that HDZ has made it possible to privatise. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Vidovic, for the past four years, we have been in opposition and asked to establish the two hundred richest families. You did not want to make it possible precisely for the reason that you were aware that 95% of the tops of large or small privatized companies during the first ten years of HDZ rule. That's why you didn't allow it to be made public because of the two hundred richest families of Vrhnik, I'm sure it would be in the first place, if not at least among the first few and you above it would be yours. So it's clear what kind of politics you've been leading. In 1990, we found the managers of your members of the Communist Union at the time and a very small number was changed in that war 90 and 91 precisely because HDZ policy was also Dr Franjo Tudjman's to not touch you, to be reconciled, to forgive you, to draw a line over all those crimes that worked well until 90th to forgive the general Croatian reconciliation. That's what we did. I personally disagreed with such Tudjman's policy but as a faithful member of the Croatian Democratic Community, I subdued his will and now after 10-15 years of distance I see it was his right policy because he would not have managed to create a Croatian state if we had gone repressive towards those who deserved it until 90. With their repressive and anti-Croatian policies, which they ran in a system that members and essential factors were, they rocked the economy of the then Socialist Republic of Croatia and Yugoslavia. And you, Mr. Linic, in three, four years as vice president of the government, the termology was a robbery, a thief, a gunnery, a crime, a robbery, a robbery. That was your every other word in public speaking exposure, inappropriately, inappropriately. It's your right. That's what it said about you and this authority you represent, and that's why you paid in November last year's elections. And you, Mr. Lucin, have matured for one commission to determine your work as Minister of the Interior for the past four years. And here I call upon those who wish to join such an initiative to launch this initiative and to see and determine whether it is true that you have mobilized retired refugees, members of the State Security Service.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21744	Thank you very much. Mr. Glavas, stick to the subject and not expand the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21745	And I fully support your proposal to establish other committees, to establish...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21746	Not about the other committees. They have these initiatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21747	Mr. Lucin spoke of other irregularities until 2000, which may be behind our rule until 2000. I also support that proposal. Start the initiative, write a proposal, and I'll sign it first. But you're also mature to thoroughly analyse your work, Ranko Ostojić and all those parapolitan formations and units that you formed at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21748	Three corrections to an incorrect quote. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin first.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21749	Thank you very much. They also sign the first request for an investigative commission for my work and my associates in the MUP. It is also a fact that Mr. Glavas says that one reason or one of the few chiefs of police administrations who remained in Osijek is the reason why his initiative was replaced by the head of crime. The police are usually the youngest and most prospective in crime. the police of the Republic of Croatia. It is also incorrect to say that the former directors who took advantage of themselves in the 1990s were members of the SDP. No, Mr. Glavas, they were members of the Communist Union, and then in time they re-constructed and entered the HDZ. They weren't members of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21750	Honorable representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21751	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting Mr. Glavas' incorrect allegations about former party personnel. If Dr. Tudjman did so, he did for 73,000 members of the Party who were short-term runners in the 1990s and ran to your party. I'm uncomfortable talking about these things. I'm one of the last secretaries and I didn't stay registered. You and this assembly have top secretaries and those who attended the 14th convention and have not left that convention unlike those of us who abandoned them. I find it very embarrassing to talk about and would not if the cameras were Croatian TV, however, you are provoking completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21752	Please, peace. You don't need to discuss this kind of thing. Let's move on. Dear representative Zeljka Antunovic is correcting the incorrect allegations. How come you're not now? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The subconscious works, yeah. You see, this is how these replica tiles that appear in secret like this. Who answered the line? For correcting the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Slavko Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21753	I really want to correct the assumption that this investigation committee wants to determine the facts. The latest statement by the rapporteur on this point was a series of political denunciations and accusations. And this is really turning into political reckonings, I mean unworthy of the importance of the subject, and that's Victor Lenac and Victor Lance's problems and mistakes about Victor Lance, but this exposure wasn't related to what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21754	Comrade Linic, you have now highlighted the assessment of this exposure and not the correction of the incorrect quote, please. My colleague Zgrebec, so charming with that tile, I don't know if it means, doesn't mean. And who would you like a colleague of Vidovic's replica to? Here you go. Replicate. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] This is where I chair, not you. You won't do what you want. And please calm down. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21755	Thank you very much. Well, maybe this isn't exactly a replica, so I'm sorry, I hope I don't use it. I just wanted to thank Mr. Glavas for the debate he had today in this House and somehow tell him that he did a good job. It is good that you, Mr. Glavas, are chosen to defend on behalf of 16 MPs this topic as the most unmarried, most moral, person known to have nothing to do with fire, privatisation, or salt, or mobile, to speak on behalf of the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21756	Thank you very much, dear colleague Vidovic. I give you a warning because you have no right to replicate the exhibitor. You have no right to do that. And you've been conscious of misappropriating your rights. You have no right to reply to the replica because it was a abuse of rights. Representative Zeljko Nenadić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21757	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will be very brief because the time has already shifted. I'm not going to stick to what we've been saying here about how and why a loan was granted, but I'm just going to try to just, just on the basis of facts and facts, prove that, and in a very short time period that I have left at my disposal that there was a intention, there was intention. Here is a question for those who are slightly understood in banking business and our guaranteeing why the Government of the Republic of Croatia needed a guarantee in the first place. Those who have passed the credit borrowing process know that each bank has its own expert group to assess the risk of investment in banks. The section makes an assessment of the risk of lending and whether banks will give credit at all. When the bank estimates that the risk is reasonable and that funds are expected to be recovered, then the credit ensures with known guarantees, which are the bond, the debt, the mortgage, the financial transfer of the contract with foreign and domestic users of services and the like. Therefore, if these four banks, which the esteemed fellow Churchenac said were behind this project, were behind this project, then it would not be necessary to guarantee the Government of the Republic of Croatia but would be sufficient to ensure this standard guarantee and that management, i.e. President of the Board, i.e. The members of the administration shall guarantee their entire assets for the success of the project. So already at the start the banks estimated that the project, as economists say, does not drink water. And the question is really raised here, and this commission has to answer why it was necessary to guarantee the bank, the guarantee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia if it was known not to drink water in banks at all. So we need to assess whether there was a intention to get those money back where it won't work and how they're going to end up. Therefore, it would be the right task of this committee to prove its intention in the first step that money has no intention of returning and that is what needs to be insisted on. There's been a lot of talk here about workers, that it's all done for the workers. However, 360 million kuna through small entrepreneurship, through employment, through restructuring would be much better to invest in certain other segments in solving the business system of Viktor Lenc which could function rather than give management which, even for all credit responsibilities, was not able to guarantee the return of funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21758	Replica's esteemed representative Mato Churchvenac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21759	Mr. President, I don't want to complicate the debate and the debt, I'll say it briefly. Mr. Nenadic probably knows that. The shipbuilding of the whole world lies and depends on the state guarantees and the last 50 years and the last 4 years and today and the future and all over the world. Therefore, if the state of shipbuilding raises its hand, you can close all shipyards immediately tomorrow. The shipmen of the world are in a position to always put the condition of putting the state behind it. And it's either a credential or a financial or some other guarantee, and it has nothing to do with the situation in which other business partners normally live and operate. It's simply in shipbuilding because of the nature of her work.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21760	I agree with you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21761	Easy, so where are you going with your colleague Nenadić? Where?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21762	Replication response!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21763	Well, you didn't pick up the tile. Here you go. Dear Vice-President of the House of Luka Bebić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21764	We need to determine the way of the money. We need to determine the way of the money where it came from, where it came from, and who brought it. It would be a task, one of this commission's tasks. To determine when the Government gave the guarantee, when the bank paid off and that was in 2001, 2002 on several occasions in 2003 and so on. So, closely follow the way of money where the money ended and in what it ended. If a guarantee was sought, then something was sought with an explanation for which it was sought and spent. And then it's going nicely towards that money and what was covered with that money, what was paid, what was obtained and where that money ended. There, that should be determined. The other should also establish the ownership structure as it has changed and who, when entering that ownership structure, all in connection with the guarantees and guarantees received and the money they received with the guarantee from banks. That should do it. And as for the approval of guarantees, it went on for three years, you know. So if it was correctly brought in, it was because she estimated that the government should preserve, employment and activity here in the shipbuilding covered by Viktor Lenac, that activity would be correct if she had approved those guarantees, and that would be understandable. However, the consequences of each of these guarantees and each of these payments were to be followed and then the next reassurance, re-approval of funds and coverage, and then the third and fourth and fifth. And to conclude that the government did not monitor the effects, the government did not see or see how it would continue, whether there was a chance of it getting better and starting to work properly, so it continued in sin as Mr Piploic said. It's not a mistake, it's a big mistake, but perseverance in sin, multiple, repetition and re-approval without knowing what the effects are. And what can be expected. So, what Mr. Linic already admitted was a mistake. You don't need to re-relativate it with other cases right now. This is about Victor Lentz. Let the request or proposal on the establishment of other committees be opened. Why not? Let everything be established and we will go that way. We're going to politicize, and based on what someone says, we're going to politicize, and now we're not going to do anything, and we're not going to determine anything because it's being politicized. Oh, no, you don't. As if every government decision isn't political... including this on multiple guarantees for “Viktor Lenc”. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, you need to go the way of the documents, you need to go the way of the money, the money. Where he went and where he ended up. That's right, and we'll get the answer. Where did he sail the money and when? What time and who? Well, if everyone's clean, thank God, yes, we'd be happy to. We would be happy to see, however, that some have become rich in the meantime, and that the company has failed, and that's why we've been doing all this, they're employees. To maintain employment, to maintain activity in the shipbuilding area, and to see what happens to these employees now. How many are there, how many are there? And what about the cooperatives who dropped the lawsuit to be deceived because tomorrow, the high man resigned and washed his hands. Now let's see that. Who's got a problem with that? Who's got a problem with that? Who's objecting to that? For what? If it's all right, we're not friends anymore. If a friendship broke, especially. So I don't see any reason. And that way, the ownership structure is interesting, too. Who owns it when it owns it and how much does it own? And at which point these some who did not worry much, and what they will worry about when the Croatian state guarantees everything and succeeds, failed. So let's get this right. It's interesting what Mr. Rozic suggested on behalf of HSP this morning that this also about “Diocom” and “Coning” and so on, let him suggest, we suggested this. Let's get another one. We'll accept all this because no one here has at least that I believe would stand up to clearing these things up, and the question, and the reporting of criminal charges and so on, let the work of the state authorities who are in charge of it. We are here Parliament and we have the right under the Constitution to set up these committees and why they would transfer our business to the prosecution and the prosecution to transfer their business to us. Let’s do every job within the Constitution and the law and there will be no problem even if we establish 10 investigative committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21765	Thank you very much. Four replicas. Dear Representative Zdenko Matisic, Antešić pardon.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21766	Mr. President, listening to this whole day's debate just comes to mind one, one story we've already heard in this assembly, but I think it's appropriate this time of day and somehow the general atmosphere that's going on here. Namely, when he took over the company from, the new director found three letters on the table. And it said when you came to the new director's manual, when you came across trouble, open the first letter. And he clearly went very ambitious.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21767	Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21768	He came, he went very ambitious.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21769	In the replica, a representative can say whatever he wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21770	He's going very ambitiously.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21771	Unless he's insulting.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21772	in, in running this company and he came into clear trouble and opened the first letter and wrote in it: Change all predecessors and reorganize. It also said that when you get into trouble again, open another letter. He also came into trouble and opened the following letter and wrote in that letter: Charge all the troubles of his predecessors. The next time he got into trouble, he went to open a third letter, and it said: Write three letters. I wouldn't want to speculate if we were opening a third letter today. But I think that we should not deal with the better past but deal with these problems that the Croatian people have chosen to solve. They don't care much better about the past than whether we're going to live better tomorrow, whether our economy is going to develop and all together, and this clearly adorable thing reminds me of this particular joke, so I apologize for it, but I don't think this, this kind of discussion really makes any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21773	Yeah. There was a lot of letters in our history. Reply to the replica, respected representative Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21774	In order to address the problems of the future, there is no need, of course, to pay much attention back, although it is sometimes necessary to determine the diagnosis of a disease in order to then apply treatment measures. If the diagnosis is wrong and the man has pneumonia, and we treat him from another disease, then the result will be bad. That's why we need to make a diagnosis, so we're going to know and heal both our society and our economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21775	Replica, a respected representative of Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21776	It's a white tile. ... May I, Mr. President? [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21777	Is that correcting the wrong quote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21778	And an incorrect quote, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21779	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21780	I would just like to correct what my colleague Bebic has tried on several occasions to present as thesis as if we from the SDP have something against establishing a commission. It's not just you, or it could be heard from a teammate from HDZ today. So I would like to point out once again, the SDP's position has been clear from the beginning. We're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21781	You cannot highlight the SDP's position under the firm's correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21782	No, but I'm going to say that it's incorrect that the SDP has something against establishing a commission, but we are in favour of establishing a commission, but we have only expressed our suspicion because we said that this is primarily a political goal by you who have proposed establishing a commission, and that you are not actually in the interest of getting to the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21783	Excuse me, fellow Members, you have injured the Rules of Procedure because under a firm of incorrect allegations you have called to point out what your party's position is. It's your legitimate right, but not under this firm. And that's a violation of the Rules of Procedure you've done.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21784	Then I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21785	Please. [[Good job!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21786	But once again it's wrong, guilty... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21787	Yeah, yeah. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21788	Thank you very much. I sign 99% of Mr. Bebić's exposure
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21789	Do not sign anything but correct an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21790	Do not sign anything but correct an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21791	And you're replicating this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21792	I'm replicating. I'm not correcting blood allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21793	Okay. My apologies.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21794	It's all true, actually. The times of money, where they went, I sign it. I just don't see any reason why we shouldn't take advantage of one chance right now, which is to generally solve the issue of guarantees at political level. Since the issue of guarantees will be given a completely different dimension when Croatia steps into the European Union. I don't see any reason why we wouldn't actually be considering some guarantees that were given until 2000, so let's say some big companies from the off end. There shouldn't be any question in my opinion. I mean, let's just say, put all these guarantees together and tell the Croatian government tomorrow shouldn't or should give them and those companies guarantees. I think this is a unique opportunity. Personally, I don't think we need a new commission, but this amendment given by the HSS I think it's enough to expand this commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21795	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Luka Bebić, draw out.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21796	We think we need to determine the facts without accusing anyone in advance. The Assembly's commission is not a court. It's not an investigative authority, it's not a prosecutor's office. It's not the police. It's the parliamentary commission. Because in public for a long time at least 4 years this problem is present, I think we owe it to the citizen and our fellow Iraqis and to those who are alimony of the state budget to clear this up. And I've agreed with all the other initiatives if there are such dubiosis and misunderstandings in others that they are properly examined. I'm not looking for anything else. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21797	Thank you. And the last replica of the respected representative Milanka Opačić. Very good. Dear Representative Vladimir Plesko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21798	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd say just a few words because we all paid off with these discussions. So I would like one of my opinions, colleagues who made up the former coalition government in the last term all day saying that it was among other things, a development project, retaining the economy and an economically structured area of Rijeka. But they also talk about how it was from social relations to workers not firing workers and so on. I'm actually a little bit of an opportunity review, and that's why I think you should come in with this investigation committee. Let's go this way, if during 2002 and 2003 the Ministry of Small and Medium Economy had a total of 245 million 759 thousand kuna for the entire business of the Ministry in two years. Of which, EUR 165 million is given in the development plan in subsidies, in deposits for loans, and so on. On this side we have 320 million kunas given as a guarantee to Viktor Lenac. Let's do some math. That with those 320 million kunas, entrepreneurship was potent. If loans were paid in full, the interest credits for small and medium-sized enterprises would have some economic fund of 3 billion kuna to lend to small and medium-sized enterprises, without paying interest. It means that entrepreneurs only have to return the basis of the principal. What if we look at some economic indicators that one job costs about 50,000 euros, we come up with a figure that could be employed by 4 thousand people through such programmes. So there's an economic justification going down. Let's talk on the other hand about social justification. If we take the example that there were 1,000 employees of Victoar Lenca more or more during this period, that there was an average gross salary of each employee of 7 and a half thousand kuna, that it was 12 months old, that it turned out to be three years to pay for employees’ wages of 270 million kuna. Which is still 50 million kunas less than it was given through state guarantees. When we take all this together, then I finally wonder at some ministers of former government, such as Cacuci, a great informer, Pankretic, who have a family economy. Peceku, Fižulicu, Jurcicu all deal with entrepreneurship as well. Because that way, leading the business of their private firms or companies they worked in would turn out to be poor in a few years, and they wouldn't have that as private owners today. And so when we look at all this together, we have to doubt whether there was any intention to help friends with personal assistance or if there was any intention of protecting the economy of Rijeka and the social security of workers in the area. In my opinion, there is obviously a possibility that and was not meant to be purely economic economic or social purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21799	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21800	Thank you very much. I'm not surprised by Mr. Pleček's quality explanation unless the basic element of mathematics is correct. And with 300 million kunas, there is no way to open 4,000 thousand jobs if the equivalent of 50,000 euros as Mr. Plecko said. These are the elements of mathematics that are studying in elementary school, so obviously the preparation wasn't very good for this exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21801	This colleague, Pacek, was not ten kilometers from correcting the incorrect allegations, but rather from a pragmatic mathematical debate with a representative. Well, he can. And replicator Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21802	I'm not going to challenge math because anything is possible. But there's something else you need to explain to Lance's workers. But I expect you to assist your government now to explain to the iron workers. Count a thousand six workers how much it's going to cost. You know, we've been saving her for 12 years. I'm not going to tell you how much money we spent in the coalition government and government before we did, but I can see that nobody wants to tell the hardware workers, which is 1600 of them, which is tomorrow. And that's what you know, we won't work, we won't save you. We'll give it to the entrepreneurs. According to the atom, I say again, it's not always math 2 and 2 are 4. And there's a need for political decisions. And the best thing is to give a guarantee, give a loan and save Lenac and the hardware and through entrepreneurship finance entrepreneurs. That's amazing. And of course no one gets hurt. It's just a couple of times something's gone wrong. Therefore, I would advise you not only on the past, the new government must tell you about the ironworks. I'd like to hear what you're going to tell your government about the hardware store in Sisak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21803	The reply to the replica is a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21804	I thank Mr. Linic for saying today's not math 2 and 2 always 4. Because a colleague from the last government was saying that I had no idea about math. That's the first fact. The second fact when we talk about everything else, about Victor Lenco's issue of hardware in Sisak, then we must also talk about programs that have always been meant to self-employment of workers, to encourage craftsmanship, to encourage small and medium enterprises. In what in your programs, Mr. Linic, along with everyone from the former government boasted about the achievements you had. Yes, at the meetings of the Croatian Democratic Community in 1996, when they started these programmes and when they formed these programs for the employment of entrepreneurs, for the subsidisation of entrepreneurs, and I hope that there are great interests in such things in one River and normally that part of the workers would then move from "Vicor Lenca" to business companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21805	So there's been a change in math, that 2 and 2 is no longer 3 or 4. And the last representative, the esteemed representative Zdravko Sočković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21806	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So far we have heard a lot through these exhibitions of different attitudes, but not only about the establishment of an investigative commission, but also about the business and destruction of the virtual Shipyard "Viktor Lenac". The "Vicor Lenac" Shipyard is a school example of the design of politics and the economy and the illegal transfer of state resources to private ones, which usually ends tragically for both the company and the state. The collapse of "Lance" began the moment the SDP came to power, and Mr. Vrhnik became a favorite of the new government. His insane ideas about and building new production facilities, where they would work new construction that they didn't know anything about, and they left most of the jobs on the ship's remont, where they proved themselves and they knew how to do it, so his decision by Vrhovnik was disastrous for the Shipyard "Viktor Lenac". The idea of megalomanical investments without cover that did not have any serious economic indication of the eligibility of such investments and the possibility of repayment of loans. The biggest tragedy of the government was that it did not have the strength to stop and replace Mr. Vrhnik in his wasteful campaign and the destruction of the state register and the funds of taxpayers. But since he was a mesmerist of the then government, so none of his credit claims were ever rejected, and unfortunately not all the regions were equally treated and assisted, which we heard on several occasions in exposure. Let us remember gentlemen of the Istrian Bank, Mr. Jakovcic did not say he would secede under Italy, so it was settled within 14 days, so the malversion in Rijeka Bank was rescheduled within a month, and only in one of our county, Slavonia, in the Vukovar-Srijem 3 large banks then for our concepts, regional and Vukovar and Cibalia and the County Bank had disappeared from the face of the country and no one had cried behind them. It's a bit of a start to disturb us, more or less, it's tourism and shipbuilding, shipbuilding and tourism, I'd dare say through the withdrawal of all these 15 years. I think we should start a little more evenly and evenly talk about the regions, not one of them staying as if they were living in another country, not in Croatia. The second major failure of Mr. Vrhovnik, I speak now as president of the administration, is buying dock 11. Gentlemen, it was a piece of junk that someone was supposed to pay from America to take off and get rid of all the trouble we had with taking care of the waste. As soon as he was brought here, it was immediately said that he was bought for some $5 million, although I think they had to give at least a million and a half to drive away, immediately put on it, and not immediately after that mortgage 22 million, I no longer remember the dollar or the euro for the Kraka, and then another EUR 11 million that were received from the Privredna Banka Zagreb. Now, that's the quality of the mortgage. On an old wreck that isn't worth anything, put it at EUR 33 million. The estimates of "Lance" 47 million euros, where the land so much, infrastructure and even the shores, and all when they add 47 million, are clear that it wasn't worth a third of it. And it's not just that, in my opinion, giving out private guarantees, there's going to be before, there's going to be a sure thing about this, but maybe the problem is that most of the owners were at least on paper strangers, and I don't think they deserve to have that kind of treatment. Everything that's been asked through the Supremes to get that kind of money inside, and beyond that, gentlemen, we've lost everything. I have to say that these guarantees, perhaps in good faith, but the result was catastrophic, because just by giving these huge guarantees, everyone, and the cooperatives and the workers and all the others got one impression that behind "Lance" stands the state, no matter how much debt can be done, work should be done and no problem at all. However, workers and suppliers and cooperatives have just been deceived. What would have happened if it hadn't been for those guarantees? There would be no such catastrophic debts made by "Lenac" but the gentlemen would go into bankruptcy like all normal companies, Mr. Vrhnik would get a leg, as he deserved and would not pay 130,000 kuna a salary, and then it was said, there will be 10% of his salary, 13,000 kuna, and that was still at that time at least 4 average salaries in Slavonia. The fact is that they are in the eyes of every businessman and economist, so where gentlemen are on these immature ones, means, by estimates, on no mortgages, it's like I would raise millions of euros on my bike, about the value of the mortgage, so what did the Croatian government, the individual ministries, the banks that gave credits, audits, supervisory boards and everyone else. They all got fat money, and it all fell apart. Therefore, today should not be seen to make someone, gentlemen, money and other workers. I think we should look real. There's 500 left over and some workers. They should be taken care of and taken care of, but I think we should take care of both the cooperatives and the suppliers who lost a lot of money, so at least that the state compensated them for at least the part called VAT, where VAT was accounted for and had to pay, and they never charged anything. I therefore believe that this problem will certainly remain in this government, but here to conclude with it, not that gentlemen were not given guarantees, it would be a far better situation, because there would be no debt, we would go bankrupt and get rid of the Supreme One who was the greatest burden of precisely the ruling set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21807	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21808	I have to go back to the banks and I can accept the discussion of Victor Lenco and how wrong it is to approve guarantees, but again to mention banks, I want to say very clearly, all three Slavonic banks went bankrupt, not during the coalition government, during the previous government, before 2000. This coalition government, if we at least want to talk about the "Lance" gaps, then I want to say, the robbed Postman bank of 800 million kuna has solved it in such a way that today it is a state-quality bank and also, a private robbery in the Rijeka Bank or a robbery of workers in the Rijeka Bank, the government has also decided not to invest a single kuna in that bank but only burdened the owners, and they were foreigners both former and new. So if we're gonna talk, then I really do know how to answer. This government has shown its ability to manage banking crises. She solved both of the banking crises, and the previous one didn't solve them. I don't want to accuse anyone, but don't impose them. Therefore, if there was a crisis in banks in our time in Slavonia, we would probably be able to set ourselves up because we were trying to solve the crisis. Trying to solve it. And also very short. You know, you count the incentives in agriculture, the recovery in agriculture, the write-offs of shipbuilding claims, and you'll see that there's some balance. There are so simple figures and add up and you will see that most green Croatia has received more support from the budget than blue although it should not be a rock of interference, stumbling and conflict.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21809	Thank you. Replica reply, respected representative Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21810	I can't agree with Mr. Linic,... I wanted to point this out only as one example that all regions are not equally represented, and I will say one example when he came to the difficulties of Đuro Đaković, who had five times as many workers as "Vicor Lenca" and then barely took any guarantees for the whole term that he would pay back and that he would pay back 3.2 million euros, and the gentlemen from "Lance" with 1200 workers got 20 times as much and would never return it. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21811	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21812	Okay. Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this subject. I would like the representatives of the clubs by Friday morning and Friday to deliver their agreed proposals to the members of the committee, including the president who must be in accordance with the Constitution of the opposition parliamentary, vice-presidents' parties. Tomorrow, we would like to continue with point 3 on the remaining assumptions for the debate on item 2 of the consolidated agenda as follows. Thank you very much. ... Lack of assumptions to hold a debate at a plenary session that has two, which is a lack of government opinion and a lack of report from the relevant committees of this House. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Continuing tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen at 9.30 p.m. Thank you very much. Secondly, the proposal to set up an investigative fact-finding committee in connection with the issued state guarantees creditors of the private company Shipyard Viktor Lenac, d.d., is now in bankruptcy. He's proposing a dozen MPs. The debate is closed. First, we will vote on a proposal to set up an investigative committee as a previous issue. A decision to set up an investigative committee as a previous issue requires a majority of the votes of all MPs. Article 6(2) The law on investigative committees. So 77 votes to decide on a proposal to set up an investigative commission. Please engage. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. The founding decision was voted by 115, abstention 3 and none against. Therefore, a decision has been taken to establish an investigative committee as a preliminary issue of this proposal. We now have a proposal for a decision on the establishment of an investigative trust, the amendment was submitted by the Club of Representatives of the HSS. I would like to ask on behalf of the Proposer for a proposal for a Decision to make the proposal clear to the Proposer on the proposal for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21814	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This amendment to the HSS cannot be accepted. Not for the reason there might not be anything to answer. The simple proposal has already been formulated and refers specifically to one case. And on behalf of 16 MPs who are proposing, I can say that we have no objection to the launch of such a similar initiative in another form. So it's a suggestion that the HSS go with its initiative. I'm deeply convinced he'll get a good deal of support amongst the MPs. To answer each other's questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21815	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the promoter, the esteemed representative, Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21816	Thank you very much, Mr. President, we appreciate the principled attitude of HDIn order to determine the facts regarding the guarantees issued for the private society of Viktor Lenac. The HSS also claims that this principle applies to other private companies that have received state guarantees since 1990 until 2004. It would be good if that very principle was supported by our proposal. And it would be good if we tried to solve it in one package. But we also accept this argument, and of course we will be interested in examining the fate and other guarantees given to private companies according to our findings that is a few dozen billion. And fate will probably be given guarantees and also the fate of businesses will be very interesting for this Parliament. That is why we are now announcing our initiative to examine the fate of the guarantees provided and to form new commissions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21817	What about the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21818	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21819	Thank you very much. I am now voting on the proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee in the text as proposed by the applicant. Please engage. Please vote. Not about the suggestion of a decision. Please follow carefully what, the motion for a decision and the establishment of an investigative committee, in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Please vote for it. I would ask MPs and MPs to follow the voting course. I'm asking for a result. I find that with 112 votes for, 4 abstentions and 3 against a decision to set up an investigative committee in the text as proposed by the applicant. Now we have a final vote on the composition of the investigation committee. On the basis of the proposals submitted by individual clubs, the selection and appointment committee proposed the composition of the committee. I ask the Chairman of the Selection Committee, the appointments to explain the proposal of the Selection and Appointing Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21820	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The board had their session at 10.00. The proposal is also a decision to appoint an investigative committee to determine the facts related to the issued state guarantees of private-owned shipbuilding company creditors Viktor Lenac d.d. in bankruptcy. Next. After the coordination between clubs, the clubs proposed their candidates. It is known that, in such cases, the commission when it is drawn up to be a mandatory chairman of the commission from the ranks of the opposition, that the vice president should be of the ranks of the ruling. The commission numbers seven members. The Croatian party of law has proposed Ms. Antu Djapic, and with a note that they are proposing him as president. The Croatian Democratic Community has proposed to Vice-President Šim Prtenjac and to the members of Florian Boras, Branimir Glavas. The Croatian Peasant Party submitted Mr. Josip Vresk. The SDPe proposed to Mrs Dragic Zgrebec and proposed for the secretary the Croatian Democratic Union of Mr Emil Tomljanovic. We had another proposal, this is the DCA proposal, in the person of Mr Frana Piplovic, since there were more candidates from the ruling coalition, Mr Frano Piploic did not enter this commission. And there will be more commissions, according to which we will have our full support to nominate him and run on behalf of the ruling set in the next commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21821	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21822	Since the National Minorities Club has not been asked to propose a representative, we do not have one, we suggest Mr. Shemsa Tankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21823	Please be in your place. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21824	Well, here's the thing, even though I'm speaking on behalf of the SDP club, you know that the SDP club has obviously supported and set up a commission, and it will support this composition. However, we warn that, with regard to the commission's task, both the Croatian public and the professional bodies later and this Parliament, they present the truth. YES, it is not good for credibility to be found in it by persons who have proposed the direct establishment of the commission. And who, either on the other hand, were very fueling and convincingly all the great convictions advocated this or that solution. During the debate on the establishment of the commission. Our proposal is to consider whether it is the composition in which the representatives who have been elected in, and interested ultimately, have given it the right one and will give the result that we all want.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21825	Thank you. First of all, with regard to the remarks of Honorable Representative Fury Radin. On three occasions, I invited all the clubs from this place to deliver their proposals to the candidates in a timely manner. Last time was yesterday afternoon. So I called on the presidents of the clubs on several occasions and all interested in delivering their proposals to the candidates and they delivered them. Those who delivered them delivered them. Comrade Radin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21826	Thank you very much. I'm not arguing about what you just said. Surely so, however, since there is no deadline for candidacy, we point out now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21827	I'd like the chairman of the selection and appointment committee, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21828	As chairman of the Committee, I am informed that all clubs have been informed that they are giving their candidacys and there is no reason to doubt the work of professional services, because the professional services of this Committee have so far done this work professionally and in quality. I'm allowing the possibility of that happening, too. Nothing is too late if you nominate and run, the Committee does not decide anything, the Committee just crystallises one proposal before the Parliament, so let the proposal be made known and complemented. So this is the Committee's proposal. This is an additional proposal, so the business procedure knows the possibility and so let the Assembly declare it. I don't mind. I thank Mr. Josipovic for one cultural address to this home and for making his remarks, probably even his club's remarks, that's the same right, and I don't challenge anyone. All I can say is that I thank the Croatian Democratic Community, which has run me to be vice president of the board. That's exactly why I was assessing that there would be such objections and suggestions, I didn't accept. Well, she suggested that my party be the secretary of this committee, so just for the very reasons I thought there would be objections, I didn't accept. And it is my duty to respect the party's will, given that I have entered a good part of this problem in explaining and bringing this issue to this home, my desire is to objectively, impartially help the work of this commission. That's it, for now, if it doesn't need it anymore. There'll be something else to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21829	Thank you. Dear Representative Shemso Tankovic, is it you, tell me your opinion, you are running by fellow Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21830	I'd ask you to shut me out of this committee this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21831	I didn't understand, please, your obvious...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21832	Since this proposal came too late, I ask you not to include it in the vote. I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-29-0.u21833	Thank you very much. I will now put to the vote the following composition of the Investigative Commission, as a whole: The President is elected by the Honorable Representative Anto Djapic, Vice-President of Šima Prtenjac, the Honored Representative, Mr Emil Tomljanović, for members of the Honored Representatives: Branimir Glavas, Florian Bouraz, Dragica Zgrebec and Josip Vresk. The decision requires a majority of the votes of the representatives present, Article 6(3). The law on investigative committees. Please come in. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that with 96 votes in favour, six abstentions and 15 against the committee's proposed composition. Good luck to the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. It is up to the proposal for a decision on a list of companies of particular national interest. Before that, respected representative Milanka Opačić on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
