ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21710	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, continue the 39th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I konstatirati that the session is attended by 31 MPs. He is justly absent for health reasons, distinguished representative Jovan Todorović. We wish him successful treatment and recovery. The absence was justified by more representatives: Milorad Živković, Ekrem Ajanović, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Muhamed Suljkanović and Halid Genjac. We, as you know, interrupted the session during the debate on the 13th item of the agenda: "The proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Transport and Communications on the occasion of the debate on the point: The current situation in RTVBiH and the implementation of the reform of the Public TV System in BiH." Before we move on to a follow-up debate on this point, we also have to finish one previous question. As you know, distinguished representative Snježana Rajilić was elected to the municipality of Bosanski Novi – Novi Grad in previous local elections, and the Central Election Commission decided to suspend the term of office and grant the term of office to the next qualified candidate. The mandate was granted to Mr. Milenko Grabovac, the next qualified candidate from the List of Compensation mandates of the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats - Milorad Dodik. I call on Reverend Milenko Grabovac to give a solemn statement before the House of Representatives, after which he assumes all the rights and obligations of the MPs at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Please repeat after me the text of the solemn statement. 'I swear I'll be conscious of my duties;
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21711	'I swear I'll be conscious of my duties;
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21712	respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina;
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21713	respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 2
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21714	implement fully the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina;
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21715	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina;
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21716	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms;
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21717	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms;
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21718	to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens."
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21719	to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens."
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21720	I congratulate the honourable representative and wish him successful work in the House of Representatives. [[APLAuz]] Now we're going to work. Within the 13th point, we interrupted the debate. There were more reports. As I assume that one number is possible to give up the debate in the inter-time, I ask those who are interested in renewing the application to apply and possibly continue the debate on this agenda point. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21722	Dear Chairman, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the NGOs, respected media representatives, colleagues and fellow MPs, I really don't know if there is any more of this discussion on BHTV. We've had this subject a few times already, and it seems to me every time we came in, by me, into the finishes, she was just more complicated and we were even more alone in the position of not knowing what to do with this media house. And of course, that we as politicians can talk about everything and everything, but, well, apparently, we can't say anything against independent media and justice systems, because they're independent and I said that on a few occasions. First, they are independent of themselves, so they are independent of the people and the citizens and those who pay for them, especially because they are independent of us, and that's good. And no one puts pressure on this television or interferes with editorial policy. But I really want to, as I always do, and to say openly today to us from the RS, and to the priorities of the 3 SNSD MPs, to be attributed, as when we are, under the supposed signs, against the things that are negative in this media house, and they are indeed more than negative, that we are immediately against BiH, that this is a blow to some institutions, that it is a coup against the state, which is not true. So, I won't go far into the story, the self-genesis of this television, imposed by those who funded it at the beginning, and later raised their hands from it, and then left it to us as a hot potato, and to just repeat what I did every time this point of the agenda was speaking, and today I'm just going to repeat it briefly. We really want to help this media house. We have nothing against journalists. We don't have anything against these people behind the cameras, we don't have against technical staff, we don't have anything against anyone but I always advocate that the balance and the huge financial debt be brought to zero. I don't know which of the economists invented a positive zero, but they're neither positive nor negative, unfortunately, they're not even zero, because they're in a huge financial duo that no one can cover. And let me repeat, they do not trust and hope that, when I say Parliament, of course I mean SNSD MPs, they will give support to finance it and cover the budget losses, because that will not happen. I repeat, not to help the television, but to ask that the situation be cleared up there and, fortunately, when I asked one parliamentary question about this media house, I received a reply from the prosecution that they took the audit reports and the financial business of this media house as a priority. So, to be even clearer, I'm pushing for the cleanup of everything there and to determine who the thieves are, I'm stressing the thieves, in an earlier period in management, and I don't even know which other institutions to bring down this television, so that the people understand best, in a straight line. We're trying to clear up and clear up there, so when it does, I repeat, at zero, then get into this second integration system of three public broadcasters. Until then, we don't dispute the functioning of the Corporation or anything else. But it is not possible to enter into the creation of a new institution that would take care of three public broadcasters. In particular, there's a knot entangled there about the relationship between federal TV and BHTV so I really don't see a way out of this circle where Parliament has found itself neither guilty nor due. And now if I didn't repeat all sorts of things about the board of directors there so they wouldn't give me credit for me getting involved again. I'm not butting in, and we really wanted to, and we had a good intention of helping them, no matter how many times I've repeated that the Serbian people are not satisfied with the editorial policy of that television, so I said for the first time that it was anti-Srain television, and today I'm going to repeat, so I said that it was Bosniak television, so my colleagues were replicating me, and I said that it was Sarajevo, that it was not Bosniak, so it turned out to be nobody, so they got her into this whole crowd and discomony with us, Parliament, to solve all the problems that someone's made there. So, in response to the prosecution, I got that they took priority work, because already there SIPA went in, and that's also what I asked Parliament to do to competent institutions, and not me, to determine who stole the money there. This much dubiosis, so no one knows now! The first was the auditor's report that it was 24 and something million, 18 million uncharging assets, and as they say it's possible. It's not possible, you shouldn't fool the people, especially us. But I repeat the key thing, we're not against that television in terms of what's bothering us, but we're against the thieves who robbed that television and now we'd like to drag in the TVRS that's doing the positive, which is investing, so the other night I was looking forward to having you, this talk about that TV, so someone's going to object here I'm forcing, I see the new two news cars, the people themselves, the four of us, our experts. And these had new ones that were donated by strangers and robbed. Are there people here to understand once: we are not against institutions at BiH level but we are for clean bills! That's a huge difference. That is why we will never accept that someone honors us as we are against something that is at BiH level. It's not true, it's not true. We'll always say no to the Priors, because they're insinuations, not facts. I'm talking about facts. This TV, I don't know how long it's gonna be and what's gonna happen to her. But here, I liked it to be a clean bill, so let me say, here, they stepped on their feet. But more of them, Bog forgive me, and Bog can't help it, because instead of solving them, to come up with some consolidation plan, they've made it even more difficult. So last time I said, "Here, let the D.A. resent me, how is it possible for the Court to return the director to the job that the board of directors had replaced?" So somebody's gonna tell me -- it's not a topic. It's all about the subject here. And my, say, case or case of some people has been in the D.A.'s office for years. No one will consider it. And now someone's gonna tell me that someone didn't get involved. So this court that made that decision in 15 days to get the director back -- I'm not against the director either, but the board of directors decided that – deserves to enter the book of the record, how up-to-date and how fast they are. So we need to take all aspects of this media house into consideration, I repeat, to help her. But how to help her, when we get the Prosecution Report and when someone here tells me in Parliament, Slavko Jovičić, Marko Marković, Mustafa Mustafić, that I don't list the names – he stole the money there. I'm only interested in thieves, because I've been fighting thieves for a lifetime. When someone tells me corruption, it's nice, I don't like those expressions. So my grandmother asked me the other day, "You were at Parliament, did you implement it?" I almost passed out. And I heard that expression four years ago, she's asking me if you've implemented it, and she can't hang two letters. Retirement received, finger pressed. We've done a lot of things to the people, and this TV is special. So please, as colleagues in Parliament, do we have the strength to at least say to the board of directors we have chosen: don't delay this process indefinitely because there are reports coming and getting worse and worse.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21723	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21724	Well, time! You know how, time's up here. We're the only ones who haven't yet, because we're some kind of power, but this TV set is a long time gone, and the first time this topic was, I asked for it to go bankrupt. It's the only possibility we can put her on her feet. If we don't, there's no money, none of us will get the support to fund it, and someone stole it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21725	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Jovičić. The first one was applied for by the distinguished representative Bećirović, and then for the replica the same respected representative Ahmetović. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21726	It would be sad if today's session started as Mr. Jovičić began, especially with stories that TVBiH is anti-Serb, so the other will report that it's anti-Croatian, third that it's anti-Bosnic, etc. I think the goal of this kind of discussion, and it no longer needs to be covered, is to say very clearly – it is a clear political pressure on the BiH media, and in this case on TVBiH. Because after these attacks on TVBiH, which isn't today, it's been going on for months, you know what happens then. Journalists are so intimidated that after numerous sessions of this Parliament they must not even take any statement for the daily or from opposition people to prove that it is not her or her. I think this should stop. And the least problem is if someone in the SDP says this is pressure on the media, but if that's Oli Ren at the European Parliament's meeting says that the entire EU has noticed and seen that there is political pressure on the media in this country, and if this is contained in the Official Resolution of the European Parliament, what we need to be fenced on, where people say this is the only country in Southeast Europe in which the ruling parties are pressuring the media, then we really need to deal with this issue seriously and break up with this kind of anti-European practice in this House, a truly brutal and flagrant violation of the elementary media freedoms in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21727	I thank the honourable representative. The next is Honourable MP Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21728	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, I call on fellow Members to keep their presentations up to the heights of this house, so that we do not enter into one of these kind of debates that Mr. Jovičić started, with the thesis as if the time had expired for state TV. So she had no time, and the time when grenades were thrown at her, when the plan was physically destroyed, and she would certainly be while she had Bosnia, and Bosnia would be long. And so I urge, indeed, that we conduct a debate on how to propose solutions for TVBiH to stand on healthy feet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21729	Honorable representative Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21730	Mr. Bećirović, I don't really know if you've listened to what I'm saying. I'm not against that TV. I'm against the thieves who brought that television into... And I really need to tell you this. I respect Mr. Oli Ren, but you're calling for him to watch that TV. Maybe he's watching. Let me get that story out of here. It's written in Sarajevo, passed on to Oli Ren and just came back here like 6 boomerangs. Now, Oli Ren is watching TVBiH, so he's happy with her, so he knows I'm putting pressure on her. I don't put pressure on television. But is there anywhere in the world, I'm not defending, you're going to defend me right now, so you're going to see what the media is going to do to me tomorrow, but I'm going to say to the public, is there anywhere in the world that, without the evidence of the court and the prosecution, spits out, attacks on the government's strongest political party in BiH, such as President Dodik? Is there anywhere in the world? So please, if the court proved it, I'm not defending anyone, I support the prosecution, I don't interfere with the justice system, but without any evidence like in the show, like in the Latin soap opera, it's just going against the RS, and now you're going to tell me that's not the case. I ask you, Mr Bećirović, not you, but all of you, do you know that the subscription in the RS from the Serb people has dropped and because of TVBiH, they won't pay the TVRS either? Do we need to bring this system, which is the only one that operates positively, into this ruin? Mr Ahmetović and you, indeed, as colleagues whom I respect and all of you, have you seen and heard my intentions? I want to help that TV. But how? Let's get this straight with the thieves who stole that TV. I didn't steal and you didn't steal, I didn't say. But who are they? It will not be financed, nor will we raise our hands to cover from the BiH budget, so you say we are against BiH. We didn't. But I repeat, do a survey, let that television make who's watching it in the RS? I look at the palace only because I can criticize it, otherwise, if I didn't need to keep talking to them, I wouldn't be looking either. Please, that's the point, not that we're against BiH, against television. So she was at war? So let go, she wasn't at war with that name. She's new now, she's common to this whole country. What happened in the war? There's been a lot of things. On that side and on this side. We're not going that far.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21731	Business intervention, esteemed representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21732	Chairman, Article 71. The Rules of Procedure say: 'The MEP and the other participant in the debate can only talk about the issue being discussed in accordance with the agreed agenda.' Today, we have the Commission's conclusions, one of which says it is asked by the Management Board to put a moratorium on a Decision that Mehmed the Agović of Director-General of BHRT and one that speaks of a special session with one of the agendas listed here as soon as possible. The colleagues are not discussing these issues that are in the conclusion, but rather having a debate on the BHRT we have already had. And not just once, but more times. I'd really like you to take that word to colleagues who go beyond the agenda. At this point, it's the least important who loves and who doesn't like BHTV and whether money is shared or not. At this point, what matters is what's on the agenda. And I ask you once again to really ask you and your colleagues to abide by the agenda. Otherwise, these sessions of ours will take days without any results. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21733	I would like to thank Reverend Novaković. I accept business intervention and ask all of you, indeed, and at this point in the agenda but also at all the next points of the agenda to stick to the agenda and to discuss what is on the agenda, not what you may think is on the agenda. Business intervention, esteemed representative Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21734	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, business intervention was in the tone that counterpart Novaković explained here. We are indeed in place, so we have on the agenda the conclusions of our commission, which has made as a proposal for possible solutions for the situation in the Croatian TV service. I was also in the debate, which was from a year ago with the same problems, with the same character of the debate that was, talking about that the BiH Parliament must not fall into the trap to be management and to edit editorial and programming policies on television. And as you can see, in all these conclusions communication is between Parliament and the Management Board. This parliament was appointed by the Governing Board, appointed by him.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21735	Excuse me, what does your business intervention apply to?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21736	My business intervention refers to the discussion being conducted outside the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21737	Okay. We've already figured that out. If you want to discuss it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21738	And I suggest, if there is any conclusion relating to the Board's board of directors in order to supplement the conclusions, this Parliament can show trust or mistrust to the Management Board and appoint the Management Board to do the work there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21739	I thank the honourable representative. The following has been announced for the debate by the esteemed representative Sadik Bahtić, and let the distinguished representative Savo Erić be prepared. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21740	Thank you. Right now, I accept these conclusions. Among these six conclusions, my four conclusions have been proposed. And I'm looking at one of the most important state institutions here, I don't see anything personal, and I think that state television needs this country and there's not one state in Europe that doesn't have state television. And if everyone is full of the mouth of the European road, we vote unanimously here, the public is over 80% for the European pathway, let's show it in action. The Commission has proposed here, you see at point 2, so that this development programme is done and the Finance Commission and the budget has also committed the Governing Board and management to do a recovery plan, financially. I think it should be done. The state needs to resuscitate this. In my opinion, I always say that, 40 million is nothing about the importance of this state television. Now follow the financial situation in the world, I repeat, the US 700 billion give to private banks, Germany 100 billion in private banks, if it's something of state interest, and 40 million marks I think of this country as not a big sum. I don't want to get into editorial politics, not that I'm afraid, I'd like to be the first against this television, I know their relationship with me, I know everything with me that's been done, but there's always some higher and higher interest. I accept these conclusions. We know that this was one of the conditions for signing the Agreement: the Public Service Reform. I want to tell you about these conclusions. In my opinion, I have said this and always speak on committees, there is more responsibility of the Management Board which appoints this Parliament than management. The board of directors there has replaced one director, another director, today and tomorrow some third directors may come, and the situation is always the same. Obviously, I said it and now I publicly say, in my opinion, this is an attack on one of the key state institutions. I don't think this Parliament will ever accept that. I understand a colleague of Jovičić when he says zero. So let's go to zero and get rid of it. How different. It can't be any different than making that plan for consolidation and recovery. Says the thief, who answered. And I'm gonna have thieves chasing each other. They have institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21741	We're discussing a proposal for a conclusion, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21742	So the subject of the conclusion that all of this is going to work, it's not about responsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21743	In the proposal for conclusions, there is no proposal for conclusions from the esteemed representative Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21744	So read conclusion number six, read, read. There's all this: the board of directors and management. So the institutions went in there, doing business. Let them work. If someone abused her, they'll answer. Let's get this plan of resuscitation and consolidation to Parliament that we adopt it if 9 we are all honest with that television and that this television finally, here we are for a year. There's that too, people probably work under pressure, in fear, all of it, this situation is probably reflected there on the house. I and the Commission for Transport and Communications and in the Commission for Finance and Budget will always support state television and, believe me, this latest report by the auditor who worked... has been moved. Costs are down 1.5 million, which is very positive. Certain rules and acts have been made that have not been done. So, from a year ago, there's been a shift on television as far as the audit report is concerned. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21745	I thank the honourable representative. The next is Honourable representative Savo Erić, and let the distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21746	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, respected guests, the Management Board is a legal institution, legally elected and a year ago the Management Board had from the Commission duties, and primarily to sort out the situation there, to find solutions, to sit down with management. They didn't sit down and the board of directors as a legal institution reached this conclusion. If we add that all audit reports are negative, then the Commission definitely does not have the right to draw conclusions and orders through audit reports and the Management Board. If we go that way, then we need to change the board of directors and finish our work the way the law regulates. That is why Serbian Democratic Party MPs will vote against the commission's decision and support the legality of the board of directors until you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21747	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović, and let the distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21748	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the task of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives in the area of the Public TV System in BiH, and the implementation of laws or the monitoring of law enforcement or the application for the implementation of the law adopted by this House. These are the Law on the Public TV System and the Law on the Public TV Service of BiH. We have two other laws in BiH that touch this service, or system. It's the Federal TV Act and the TVRS Act. And the key problem that arises, when this problem is Wednesday, is a stalemate in the implementation of this process, i.e. the law. 10 I have so far said on several occasions that the implementation process should continue regardless of what was not appointed by the Federal TV Management Board under this new law, because some have claimed that it is not possible until it is done. I claimed it was possible and therefore there is no, in fact, the board of directors of the RTS system. He's not here when it comes to making a korporacija, and it's very interesting, and he's got to ask for double fees for both the board and the other board of directors. It's such a bit of an interesting thing to me and a matter of analysis, but I'm not going to get into it, I'm not going to cause any deeper discussion. These days end the process of appointment of the Federal TV Management Board and I propose that these conclusions, which are mentioned here by the Commission, be added to another one and it concerns the requirements of this House for the implementation of the law. It's the only thing we can do. We cannot debate – and colleagues are absolutely right to point out the business intervention of this kind – of the solutions that we once opted for here in Parliament, which we voted for. There's no revision of those solutions. There's a lot of debates going that way. There can only be a debate here on the basis of the implementation of adopted laws. And that means the board of directors of the system, the corporation as the fourth subject, and let's see. I'm not running away in this process -- in fact, I'm looking for other colleagues who are looking for it, and that will be the point of today's agenda of this special session, when it comes to the financial report, then we can talk about these things -- to determine what the financial situation is, who's responsible for this financial situation, and we'll see. I don't run away from it, but don't let the debate on the financial situation cloud the key thing, and that's the implementation of the entire system. This is our obligation to the EU, and that is ultimately the need of all of us in BiH. I think it's good for all of us in BiH when we implement these laws completely and when a corporation is established as a fourth legal entity. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21749	I would like to thank the honourable representative Džaferović. The next is distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković, and let the distinguished representative Branko Dokić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21750	Your Honor, is there a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21751	You go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21752	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I would like to remind you of a few things as an introduction to the debate on these conclusions. Nearly two years ago, on January 3, 2007, the ruling six signed programme goals and distributed chairs to the Council of Ministers and took responsibility for the powers that were enabled. Under points 1 and 2, the reform of the public broadcasting system is stated. So today, after two years, this debate that's being held here, is that the reform of the public broadcasting system, I'm interested in it? You've appointed authorities, you have a budget available to secure resources, you have the power to change laws. So you're acting as the owner of the Public TV Service and you have enough authority to solve this problem. Obviously, for two years, you haven't been competent, or able to solve this problem, and 11 of you are wasting both our BiH citizens and taxpayers' money on some discussion that really doesn't make any sense. I ask you not to spend neither time nor money but to negotiate within the party coalitions what you will do with that service or in fact you cannot handle it as you did two years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21753	I thank the esteemed representative Ivanković. The next is the distinguished representative Branko Dokić, and let the distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21754	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I would like to point out a few things about this whole situation that was created after the shift of the CEO of RTVBiH. For one thing, and in some way the answer to some previous discussions, RTVBiH needs BiH but as a public tv service that will also feel the same to its Hrvat and Bošnjak and Srbin. It may seem like an impossible formula, but I assure you, with a little bit of goodwill, that this formula is very simple and that it can be conductable. Secondly, the situation in RTVBiH is very difficult. I'd say very critical, in a long time, in continuity. The situation that came after this, when we've politicized everything, is even harder. And now it's in an even more difficult state in relations where management with the board of directors has been dented, where there's obviously no communication, we have to figure that out, where some other institutions are very easy, I would say, emotionally, with their heart, and not with their heads, they've gotten into all of this and I think they've made it difficult for the RTVBiH position. As an illustration of this, I will give you a memo, Mr. Chairman, which you have received and where the signator of this letter has asked you to also share with all MPs, and I will give you a letter from a man from the institution about whom, if that institution were professionally doing its job, there would be no room for any comment, especially by us politicians. However, this memo just warns us when we choose individuals at the head of important institutions, and especially when we choose individuals who make up institutions, we open our eyes well, so that we do not make the mistake we made when we choose the Ombudsman Safet Pašić. You have delivered to the Commission, at the head of which, its response, a spot-on response to the shift of the Director-General and the Commission has defined itself by a single sentence. The conclusion that we have all accepted is this: 'We ask Mr Pašić to deliver to us whether the opinion he signed is the opinion of the BiH Ombudsman Institution or his personal opinion.' So, I quoted our conclusion as being referred to him. You saw what 12 wrote. He treats this request for interpretation as very unserious, and what further confirms my view (all quote) 'that it is the script of the replacement of BHRT Director General in which he participated a much wider circle of people than those of the Management Board', etc. Someone who makes such an institution, at least a whole or a third, to draw conclusions and address Parliament on the basis of bar stories and so forth, not to go any further, is really inadmissible. And imagine further, he insists, in the end, he says, 'I must note that Commission President Branko Dokić did not react as a member of the BiH Council of Ministers. So this has nothing to do with what we are discussing, which was then quoted by BiH's Mr Popović as saying a recommendation on the application of the SFRJ Penal Code." For this reason, and his reaction, imagine the conclusion that he is making, because of what I allegedly did not react, and I have no idea that it has ever been and who it has come to, he draws the conclusion of the Ombudsman Institution, which is why I quote this, this is beyond the context of the direct but not entirely, so his conclusion: 'That is why I am also his reaction to my recommendation and his tenacity and insistence in the removal of the Director General's office deeply concerned, and particularly the statements concerning the work of the Court of Justice of BiH and his decision.' I assure you that I never spoke a single word publicly about the replacement of the Director-General of BHRT before the shift, and after the shift, I merely represented the view that the Management Board was in charge and that it had the right to relieve the Director and that the decision of the Management Board was legitimate, given those remarks that one member had no right to vote. Outside that context, if a statement is found anywhere in any media, I will apologize to everyone, even this one, I cannot tell the esteemed Ombudsman Safet Pašić. So much for that, so much for that. I will now Vratić directly to these conclusions, the Commission's conclusions. I've already realized last time that some conclusions were accepted unanimously, and one thing I have to say is, they're not and I have to say how. You know that one of the key reasons for challenging the decisions of the Management Board was that a representative of one nation at the Management Board of the Public TV Service was too loud, that the representatives remained two and one of the others reputed that one. Two conclusions, five and four were made the same way. And not only by voting one, but I must say, I must use the same dictionary: by reputing the representatives of the two nations. So Parliament needs to know that. In these conclusions there are also very good conclusions, and I would draw attention to them, which have been reached unanimously. One of the conclusions, this is what I'm going to underline, I hope it won't be counterproductive if I underline it, because last time we had one such situation, when it says lobbying is counterproductive, and that's the conclusion of the 7th where Parliament is asked to form an expert commission. It doesn't have to be the expert commission of us here at all, and it better not be. It should be composed of experts who are not politically colored. It may, as far as I'm concerned, be an international expert group that will assess the Public TV Service Act whether it is in conformity with the Constitution, because just one of the reputed members of the Management Board pointed to that. So, we accept, here is the Commission to accept that the Law is in accordance with the Constitution, whether the Law is in line with European standards and recommendations relating to public broadcasters and if it is not shown to be not to make a proposal for amending and supplementing the Law. 13 Personally, I will tell you, personally, I think the state of the public service is such that there is a need for root changes and that these root changes will not be possible without an independent, completely independent expert assessment and assessment of the situation in which they are located there. And I have to look back at it in the end, I didn't want to replicate it before, Mr. Bahtić said, "It's the board of directors' fault that he replaced one director, so he replaced another director, so he'll probably replace the third director." Now, you see how we view the same things very differently. I want to say again, and let someone deny me, that the state of the Public TV service is very difficult, that the public service did not enter into the necessary reforms that every service had to enter immediately upon the adoption of the law. If I have to underline this, and I'm behind this, he didn't go into the necessary reforms that he had to implement under the law. Some services got into it, I won't mention them. So in such a situation elsewhere, the Management Board would be commended for the determination that he accepted his responsibility, we, here, are asking that he be punished! So, I think the message is quite clear. And once again, I'm going to point out, there are good conclusions here. We need to show the willingness to change things radically at the Public TV Service. Without these radical changes, dear friends, there is no creation or corporation. The relations between the Federal Television and the Public TV Service are completely undefined. I won't tell you who didn't do it. And until that, it didn't even happen when I was talking about reforms, until it's cleared up, there's no basis for forming a corporation, and tomorrow when we have a board of directors of the Croatian Federation of BiH. Here, that's another sign, and once again I want to underline it, that's where root changes are needed, and we need to move on so that we can create conditions that someone can carry out root changes there, not keep the status quo, and now, what is the situation, I'm afraid it can remain the status quo for the next few years. It's at the expense of the public tv service, be sure. And let those who, under quotes, defend him think carefully. Which means the current situation in which the Court entered, which blocked the decisions of the Management Board, in which there is no decision-making system now, in which de facto there is no one to make the necessary changes that are needed there. Thank you very much, and I don't want to talk about this anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21755	Thank you. Dear Representative Bahtić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21756	Well, because I've been called, I'd like to say immediately to the Honorable President-in-Office of my colleague Dokić that, you see, he says very nicely that he is too loud at certain points. It really is. And also the Bosniak member of the Management Board is too loud for the replacement of directors. More important to me, he's a key director than one commission and a conclusion. So let's be precise here. When the Management Board says, I think the Management Board is responsible for the overall situation on TV. The situation is more than catastrophic. We all said that. One of the directors was, another director came. They've removed something. Here, you see, you were alive so you could see, if the third director comes along that there will be another attack on the television so that something is not made there that's planned. There, and so I say it doesn't matter who's personal, that 14 Management Board has, so find me the effects of the Board's work. He didn't do anything except replace the directors and raise his own fees. Here, yesterday we were deceived by the Commission. Deretić sent us, the chairman of the board of directors, not to receive anything. He did receive 50% last year, and I found out this morning, and that's why the director, management, didn't want to pay off, because it's not in accordance with the law, the 50%. And we got an act from the chairman of the Management Board that he didn't receive any fees, and he received 50%, which is contrary to Article 28. The Law on Public TV Service, where it decidently says: 'For members of the Management Board compensation is three minimum salaries', and no entity from which it comes, does not write 50%. And he received 50% last year and informed us he didn't receive anything. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21757	I thank the esteemed representative of Bahtić. The next one was announced by Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković, and may the honourable representative Mirko be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21758	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21759	And the replica, I apologize, the replica, the distinguished representative Džaferović, did not register.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21760	It is hard to find, Mr. Chairman, a parliament in a world where a representative teaches the Ombudsman. Relations of the Ombudsman – a representative in democratic countries are highly profiled and there is no democratic parliament in which the MP holds the lecture of the Ombudsman. That's one thing, then. And another thing, Mr. Dokić has consciously or unconsciously revealed to us, in fact, which bush lies a rabbit when it comes to this problem. Mr. Dokić, the corporation as the fourth subject is formed by law and there is no condition for it to start operating. Emphasis from the requirements previously to be met in order for the fact that what is formally-lawfully uncontested to exist is in fact an obstruction of the complete system. As former Minister and President of the Commission, you must know that. The corporation's face-to-face with the law. She just needs to be put into action right now, so I don't say I do. That's a commitment, then. And then solve all the problems. Problems in the complete system cannot be solved until a fourth legal entity is established and all problems solved. Obstructing against the law conditions for forming a corporation, I repeat, is an obstruction with the goal of continuing to go forward one television, TVRS, and that the complete other system sinks. Of course it won't pass, and that wasn't the meaning of those laws that we passed. And I call, therefore, Parliament, here is the key thing to implementing, implementing the law, the Koporacija will not be able to do anything without it. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21761	Dear Representative Dokić, replica or reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21762	Well, even though I said I wouldn't answer again, but I really do, because it's either uninformed or it's about tendence. Niko one disputed or challenged her, even though I didn't do it, that the Corporation was formed by law. If we had gone before legal opportunities to establish the Corporation also tells the fact that, while I was a minister, Mr. Marić, who has been doing the job for the second or third year, was appointed to do the paperwork needed for this. But Mr. Džaferović would do well to read in this law what is, how is formed and who is formed and who is the signator of the contract, etc. In that context, I was talking about some things. I have to say that, too, since it was mentioned a few years ago by TV as it goes forward; because of some things, it's been in court for several years and it's been dealing with these issues. So he went into one painful process, from firing workers to some other stuff. I don't want to talk any further, because I don't want to cause any more replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21763	Dear representative Milica Marković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21764	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My replica refers to Mr. Džaferović's earlier comment. First of all, it is strange to say that Mr Džaferović, who is also an MP himself, is in some way making a partnership between the Ombudsman and the MPs in this state parliament, because in that way, too, he brings to the inferior position of every MP who has been elected here in relation to the Ombudsman. If we know that there are MPs elected in this state parliament with 12, 15, 20 and maybe thousands of votes in this country, so they have the legitimacy of a huge population in this country, and we know that the Ombudsman is elected here, some of them are dragged by barely 22 votes to be elected in this House, and it is really inappropriate, no matter what you think and how we interpreted democratic societies and democratic parliaments, to give primate to someone who is elected by 22 votes in relation to people who are elected by thousands of votes here. And I think you need to know who's older here and who has more legitimacy in this country. And I'm surprised that's how you comment. And as for TVRS, I want to tell you that there will never be any improvement and recovery of the situation in RTVBiH as long as you feel that a television such as TVRS, which operates completely on sound and normal basis and on a regulated system, needs to be drowned in the confusing and hopeless state in which TVBiH is located, just to keep that television going. Well, if you think that's gonna happen, here I'm telling you that it's never gonna happen and nobody's gonna ruin the TVRS so someone around here boasts and whines with some kind of state television. This state television if it does not work, if it is working on unhealthy and unregulated relations, the legal framework for such institutions and businesses is known. The law clearly said bankruptcy and liquidation. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21765	The esteemed first deputy president, Beriz Belkić, has a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21766	The replica is actually an intervention in terms of the incorrect allegations to Mrs Marković. When you made a comparison between the Ombudsman and the MPs, therefore the Ombudsman does not draw his authority and his authority from the number of votes. So, by law, which we have brought here, we have defined the position of the Ombudsman. Therefore, it should not be brought about in relation to the MP and his number of votes for the simple reason that these are two different things that I did not realize that someone brought it in that way. When it comes to your claim: drown a well-organized, as you say, successful TVRS system in the Public Service, it is not anyone's intention in terms of drowning, in terms of disappearing, etc. The intention is to establish a system that is part of the TVRS. So let's go that way, nothing else. No Niko has any intention of melting anyone. Let's build this as a system.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21767	Honorable representative Denis Bećirović replica, then distinguished representative Drago Kalabić replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21768	We are also at this point in the agenda witnessing that most of the ruling six in BiH continue to behave irresponsiblely. Mr. Dokić also seemed to have not voted for this Council of Ministers, as if he belonged to the opposition, not one of the six parties that make up the ruling coalition at the state level. The real question is here, and this should be discussed by the commission and this parliament: let's see what the Council of Ministers of BiH, elected here by Parliament, by six ruling parties, has done about its promises on this plan? It should not remind Parliament here that the priorities of the Council of Ministers are publicly spoken here for Parliament's speaker: reform in the field of public broadcasting, the formation of Corporation and public broadcasters, the formation, that is, the introduction of digital terrestrial television, the activation of the work of the digital forum, and that we do not speak all that Mr Špirić has set out here in his exposé and supported by representatives of six political parties. Why isn't that realized? This is the real question, and the problem of BHRT is, in fact, the problem that the ruling coalition's problems have been transferred to the field of television, unfortunately, and they've made a problem out of their problems both in television and in many other sectors, and that's what needs to be said publicly, and not here you're telling some stories that don't really stand.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21769	Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21770	... have needs, but since we obviously use the same clichés all the time, even though they're like a sold story, a few times shouldn't be repeated, but here, unfortunately, that's right. Here, let's say this system, which is trying to sell at BHRT, let's try to sell Europe. Let's tell them to join us and then we'll solve all these problems of ours. Don't let us solve this sooner. Europe is looking for clean bills, and it won't hear about us, and it's pushing us 300 conditions of clean bills inside towards citizens: debts, foreign savings, clean bills with neighbours, there's no one to ask us for clean bills. And we pray, here by Mr. Džaferović's system, let's go to the EU, and then she will help us, she will handle this for us. Here, the way we are to get in there, so I guess these so many powerful members can solve, these would be small problems for them. They won't, they won't accept it, and you're asking it here to be accepted. So this doesn't say that anyone is against the Corporation. But a system in which respect for one law is sought, which is undeniable, that law has been passed and it should, at the same time, be called for the lawlessness and non-compliance of any law on BHRT. So there can rule both anarchy and disrespect of any other law, because disrespecting the law has led to this situation, but it calls for one law, it is now important that it is respected. I don't think it's okay. So it's simply about the conditions you run away from, which should be met, which in various ways, through Pasic, these, those that are not caused to engage in this, protect and bring us into this situation. What's the problem? Well, a lot of institutions in this country have cleared up. I'm listening to my colleague Bahtić replace the thesis. We participate in audits and we listen to people who run institutions and we don't want to have understandings that they try to frame us sometimes, there's a problem with this, with that. No, we know who's at the head of the institution and we're asking why he didn't solve those problems. And here persistently, we've chosen the board of directors, so we'll replace that board of directors. This parliament has the possibility to replace the Management Board when it comes to this and he... may not choose the Gold Director, he may not be able to defend himself, because he will be responsible for some other reasons. But in the way that you tie his hands in this way, that Parliament works instead of the Governing Board, to defend or appoint or in one special way bring or protect one of the directors, it's not our job. On many occasions we have found out, and I do not understand how this parliament managed to get caught up in this story to defend, no matter what the man is called, to defend the director. We've never done that in any institution. We didn't do that anywhere. We have many boards of directors that we choose and we never asked here how they get to the man who runs that institution because we didn't care. We just got involved here. And we don't run away and argue. There will be a report here on the work of the Management Board to relieve him, and he may not be defended by the choice of this or that director. Of them, we gave them a mandate to fix this situation. They have a way and powers and their acts based on which they can or can't do it, so we'll see. But no, here's your clearance, but the porter will be Marko, the director will be Janko, I don't know, and that's where the installer will be, and don't touch it, but fix the situation. It's not right. I mean, it's too transparent a story to be sold and I think we're going to propose one of the conclusions in which this Parliament has to confirm that this Management Board is legal and legitimate and that it has the authority to make decisions to its work report, not entering the quality of those decisions. And when we report on the work, we will define the quality of these decisions, so if necessary, we will change or support 18 Management Boards. But in this way, getting involved in the work, we didn't do it anywhere. Here, there will be opportunities for other institutions, so we'll see if we have the same approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21771	The next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković, and let the distinguished representative Mirko Okolić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21772	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, that Azra does not reprimand me immediately at the beginning, I will try to avoid the castle debate on the situation in BHRT, because I said in my line that we have already discussed it several times here. I will also try to avoid the story of the quality of one, second or third television, of the quality of one, second and third television programs, and if it weren't for courts, it would probably be very few citizens who would pay for a RTV subscription. And that best speaks of the quality of the Public Service in BiH. Here is the question: What happens if we accept the Commission's position, that the Commission proposes to the Management Board to put a moratorium on its decision? Assuming that we support the Commission's position, that the Commission is proposing, will the Management Board respect the Commission's proposal and put a moratorium on this decision? I'm more than sure he won't. At least I would not respect the Commission's proposal if I were a member of the Management Board. Because why should I respect something I have the right and, of course, the arguments. I guess the board of directors has some arguments based on which he's made some kind of decision. Here you see, so I'm not going to say whether the board of directors had arguments or had no arguments, it's not the subject of a debate here. I don't think the Commission should have brought such an opinion either. But here, I have before me this report of an independent auditory house, which says this, just a few sentences: 'The company did not provide the permission of the competent Regulatory Agency for reasons of not establishing the TV system. The Law on the Public TV System of BiH does not fully apply. The company did not have a regulated payment system, nor did the rules on salaries and remuneration of employees (there is, therefore, another language, not in which I understand) which would provide a methodology for the collection of salaries and other fees to employees." And then: 'The company has no regulated accounting policy that would reflect the precise rules of evaluation of specific business events and assets.' And then, "The company doesn't have a full record of TV rights by type, individual values and license period of duration." The following is: 'The company overestimated the financial result for at least 9.786.418 KM', etc. Is there an institution, private, public, any company that manages, not run, but manages, in the name of the owner, over this institution, which would not replace management after such a report. And if there is, then the board of directors should be relieved that it wasn't done. I think the question is more important than the political stumbling over the name of that man who was the director there. I'm talking about management. If this management is anyone other than this director, then all those who have done this management, who have contributed to this work, should be placed in 19 exactly the same position as the removed director. ... And it's the only mistake of the board of directors. If the board had done that, we wouldn't have had this debate today. So if he'd done it to anyone who contributed to that condition in BHRT, too, we wouldn't have had this debate today. Unfortunately, he did not do it in any way and contributed in some way to this debate. We think, as Mr. Erić said, that the Management Board was working in accordance with the legal powers, that the audit report shows that he had an obligation to take action. And we believe that Parliament should not have even come to the debate on whether or not to put the decision of the Management Board, or the moratorium, on the decision of the Management Board, to which it had the right. And that is why we propose that Parliament does not declare itself on the Commission's proposals. By pleading on the Commission's proposals in a positive way, Parliament will then stand by the request or he will refer the request to the Moratorium Management Committee for its decision, which would further get involved in something that, at this point, I think, Parliament needs the least, unless the aim is to bring the Management Board into a situation to replace it for this. And I wouldn't be surprised if this wasn't about the Director's defense, but about the intention of changing the board of directors. I am even more sure that the intention of those who have produced this situation is to shift the Management Board, not to protect management, because it is obvious that such management with this result cannot be protected from the Management Board, but not only from the Management Board but from all those who care about the functioning of this system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21773	I would like to thank Reverend Novaković. The next is the distinguished representative Mirko Okolić, and let the distinguished representative Adem Huskić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21774	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the Council of Ministers and representatives of information, international organisations, NGOs and other guests, be careful, I was afraid that we would get involved in this situation even earlier when we discussed the state of the public service and we seemed to have gotten involved. It shows that she got into a lot of trouble, apparently, and politics in the problem that we're discussing today, because if it weren't for that, we would have set things up differently. I've asked myself a question, and I'm going to ask others, "Who is our talker in these relationships in which we are already better involved?" Who is our interviewer according to this report and the work and quality of the work of the Public TV Service? Is that management or the board of directors? Who was this parliament elected and asked for a report and responsibility? If we have chosen, or if this Parliament has appointed a body which is legally required to carry out the operation of this service as best as it is, through management, it is responsible for management, and it is responsible for this Parliament. We've now tried to skip certain ladders and go to the host's house and jump him and talk to a minor child if it's done something, is that at that point, maybe, it suits us, and tomorrow, if it suits us differently, then we'll talk to the house host and the father who's responsible for his underage child. I set things up 20 like this, and I suggest that this Parliament no longer engages in these affairs, which are management affairs, and yet management should be responsible for its affairs to the Management Board, and the Management Board should no longer be able to get to us and we should get to know each other once, not once, but rather determine ourselves according to the Management Board's report and support this Management Board and its work in the future, or not support it. He's relevant to me, he's the partner I want to talk to, no matter what happens in BHTV1 as a public service. That's why he'll be okay with management or someone else. If we are not satisfied with the Management Board, someone will probably launch an initiative to resolve this Management Board before the term of office expires and appoint a new one. Since there is no initiative on the resolution of the Management Board and there is no initiative to launch some responsibility for the poor work of the Management Board, I think it is the Management Board that is our partner and the decisions that he makes that we need to support. Otherwise, if we don't support those decisions taken by the Management Board, we derogate ourselves, because we chose the Management Board, not management. We need to set up a sequence of things and I think we should once again give the board of directors support that this situation at the service, as it is, is so difficult, as soon as it brings into some normal state, if it's in a situation. Unless it is in a situation, have someone resign or suggest another solution when it comes to the Governing Board, not when it comes to the management and operation of the Public TV Service. If we don't set things up like that, we'll probably have a political question here every other one, if not every session, and we'll discuss it, and we'll be looking at this today, for example, at the board of directors' session and the management of the public tv service, and it doesn't look like Parliament, because now we're getting into some sort of detail that's supposed to be discussed there, and not at this house. There you go. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21775	I thank the esteemed representative of Okolić. The next is Honourable representative Adem Huskić, and let the distinguished representative Jozo Križanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21776	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honored guests, I will try to focus on what is the agenda point, and these are the conclusions of our Transport and Communications Commission which has eight here. And I have no doubt at all that the people who have proposed and adopted these conclusions that they have studied the matter very well, that they are sufficiently involved, I would say, that this Parliament is involved in the problem of RTTV, or BHRT more than it would be... normal. But since the situation is that way, then it's no wonder we got involved, I even think we're dealing with more things that aren't our subject, that we're dealing with things we shouldn't be dealing with. And I don't want to talk about these conclusions, I said that I thought the people who proposed them had adopted them, that they knew what this was about and that they had made a very responsible approach to this. I would just like to say that for one of the next sessions, perhaps even the next, we will consider the report of our second Finance and Budget Commission, which also dealt with 21 BHT1 problems, and I will try to suggest that we do this in a way that we do not do it in fragments, because we are losing sight of the whole picture. I'd like to say next. We have a problem and we have to look for a solution to that problem, because we've already entered it. As a possible way of solving the problem, I see the only possibility that we can adopt the conclusions of these two committees as the single conclusions of the House and that they are being implemented. Every story... if we reject these conclusions, I don't know where we're going. We'll be at the beginning, we've lost time. And if we adopt them, we'll open up an opportunity to solve this problem if we want to solve it. If we don't want to solve the problem, then we can talk about everything and everything, look for new conclusions, etc. I don't think the situation is going to get any better there. So I'm resuming. I propose that we adopt the conclusions of the Transport and Communications Commission, but if possible, the conclusions of this Finance and Budget Commission are shared during the day. It's not supposed to be on the agenda, but I don't think it would be a problem if we adopted it all together and took this thing off the agenda. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21777	I thank the esteemed representative Huskić. The next is distinguished representative Jozo Križanović, and let the distinguished representative Selim Bešlagić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21778	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm also not going to have a general discussion, but I'd just like to remind you that this home a year and a few days ago had a similar discussion and if you took the stenograms and you'd see that we have, to say, a review of the debate and, most regrettablely, we have a rerun of the same situation in RTVBiH. What was the Management Board doing in the meantime? I've executed two shifts from the Director General. And I agree that the task and obligation of the Management Board to change management when the situation is not well, but the question is: is the responsibility and role of the Management Board exhausted by the change of management? I will return to the concrete proposal one that goes in the direction of agreeing that the conclusions proposed by our commission show in all, let me say, the elements of the dissatisfaction of the House of Representatives with the state of the RTV service of BiH. Today's debate also points to total dissatisfaction with the situation, but also to the inability of the Management Board to make changes in this house, changes that would go to improve the situation. For this reason, I will propose that we add another conclusion that would be about like this (I will formulate it later), and it would read: - The debate on these conclusions further pointed out the dissatisfaction of the House of Representatives with the overall situation in RTVBiH, which indicates the inability of the Management Board to make the necessary changes in order to resolve this situation and therefore the House of Representatives shows 22 mistrust to the Management Board and initiates the process of electing a new Management Board, in accordance with the Law on the RTV System of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21779	I thank the esteemed representative Križanović. Next is the distinguished representative Selim Bešlagić, and let the distinguished representative Slavko Matić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21780	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, allow me to say that in the last session, I experienced a shock as an MP because we were criticised that as the Commission, we had no right to do what we had given you here in the conclusions. I think you're right, but that's why I'm asking you to define exactly what we're supposed to do in the next commission assignments. The second thing, I must say, was that yesterday on the Commission that was sitting in the same meeting and that discussed the issue of wages in TV we entered into the same trap. And it seems to me that exactly what everyone here has said is that the problem that has been inherited since the law was passed, because it was not then defined, I would say, is the financial status of this institution. This financial status, I say, is prolonging and it is always present with 9 to 10 million which is not resolved in relation to Federal TV – TVBiH. And I'd ask, I don't want to go into any houses, but if you're talking, next time I'd ask you to give me information on who's building... It's the RS TV. Is it television or is it the government of the RS? But it's for things, to be clear. But I'm going back to this question. So, the problems that have arisen in this house -- they're basically from the very moment of formation. The other thing is, we got involved in some things by thinking that as the Commission we had the right to do so, so we suggested. But I think that when we make a statement on the Commission's conclusions, I suggest we go from conclusion to conclusion. Because the fifth conclusion, which the Commission proposes to this House to declare on this conclusion that moratorium should be made, should be eliminated, because the Court has already made decisions and our suggestion is in fact nothing. You're right about that. The court has made that decision. Therefore, I believe that the conclusions that are unanimous, which can contribute... to questions in this house to establish them. And I said that the problems of the board of directors, management, seem to stem from this last point that we discussed yesterday. About the salary, which the new director has made, that it is not paid because the decisions made by the audit house do not comply with the law, he said: I cannot pay and that it has triggered the avalanche of these issues. And if we've been having problems with television all this time... Tell me, when did this house adopt a report from the board of directors on the RTVBiH? Never. We may have received knowledge but the problems and the solving of this problem have never been, and I think that the conclusions of this committee in that last part are that 23 is forming an independent commission that would give a solution, a proposal, just going towards this commission, analysing the overall state, giving some suggestions. I would once again ask all MPs and MPs not to take this committee's conclusions as the conclusions of this House. These are the conclusions of the Commission to be placed on the House and, when the House declares its conclusion, it is adopted or not adopted. Or, once again, I ask you, the next time, when it comes to commissions, especially about these things, to tell us exactly what is our duty and our obligation, and not that after our work, which was based on one four or five sessions of these commissions, we get such criticism because there are also conclusions that may not be in the spirit, let's say, our recommendations, but that's why we put on the House that he pleads on these things. So I would only ask that the conclusions that are given here, I suggest, means that one by one be put to the vote and that it is adopted, which is not adopted, so if they all fall away, which is past, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21781	I thank the esteemed representative Bešlagić. Next is the distinguished representative Slavko Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21782	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow representatives, honored guests, I thought that the chairman of the Transport and Communications Committee, whose member I am, would speak a little bit more about the chronology of our meetings, and three or three times, on which these conclusions took place. Since it's not, I'll talk about it very briefly. Our first session on this subject was held on 23. Nine. As I then understood by the chairman of the Committee, Mr Dokić, was held at the request of most or significant members of the Committee and on the condition of this house that we are talking about, BHRT service, following the decision of the Management Board on the removal of the Director General, Mr Agović. Since there was nothing else we could agree on that day except that the topic is such that it deserves to discuss the overall situation in the BHRT service, and not just the individual decision of the Management Board, then we agreed that we would hold the next session on the topic of the current situation in RTVBiH and implement the reform of the Public TV System in BiH, that we would call on stakeholders, or parties, conditionally speaking, in conflict, and these are all members of the Management Board, the Director-General, even at this session were the directors of these individual houses – BHTV, or BH Radio. In that second term, we listened to them all, and only in the third term, 21.10, did we discuss the conclusions. Why are these conclusions? We simply had to come out of a situation in which we have not only brought ourselves but also a set of entire circumstances and the decision of the Governing Board itself, which was the cause of the first session, and the debate at the first session was the occasion for our other two sessions of the Committee – the current situation, which led all to these conclusions that we could only agree on, in a way that 24 individually pleaded. You can see for yourself that the conclusions of the 5th and 6th were adopted in the way they were adopted, with the votes "against", or "abstained", and that the other conclusions were generally adopted unanimously. I want to go back to this first session of ours. At that time, colleagues in the Committee on Transport and Connections, on several occasions, claimed that such a decision by the Management Board on the replacement of the Director-General was the direct destruction of BHRT services. In contrast, I personally believe that the attempt by the Committee, and now the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, is seeking to amend the Governing Board's decision much more to destroy BHRT services and that this is real evidence of political interference or attempt to political interference in the work of the Management Board. This is what I am saying for the reason that in this way, a very explicit provision of the Law on Public TV Service, I quote, says: 'The members of the Management Board are independent in carrying out their functions and do not receive instructions from the authority who appointed them.' The colleagues in the Committee for Transport and Relations disagreed and did not want us to stick to this, but we dragged our Committee for Transport and Relations into a process that started in those days from individual media, from the unions in this house, from one of the ombudsmans of BiH, which is the process of trying to pressure the Management Board to change this decision that has already been made. It is for me that this political interference and the attempt of political influence on the work of the body that Parliament has appointed, and we have appointed that body in such a way that it has the mandate and responsibility to carry out the choice, appointment, and the replacement of the Director-General. However, we wanted to clearly do a little bit of re-interpreting and this poses not only the danger of the collapse of BHRT services but also, I would be willing to say, that it is also a danger of the collapse of the entire system on which the rule of law should rest, that there is no respect for hierarchy. And, if Parliament and the Committee on Transport and Communications need to discuss something, it is the responsibility of the Management Board, not the individual decision and attempt to rescue, I would say, the Director-General who has been removed from this decision. What happens later? I do not wish to comment on this decision by the Court, but I would also like to say that neither this decision to replace Mr Agović nor the decision to appoint, possibly, the new Director-General himself will solve a very bad and very complex situation in the Public TV Service. BiH needs a quality, independent and functional public TV service in which all three constituent nations will be recognised. I'm sure decisions like this won't work out. There's a lot of repetition in our conclusions. The first conclusion: to call for the conclusions already reached by the House of Representatives on 9 July, 14.7; conclusions 3, 4 and 8 are in a way meaningful. Something new that we all agreed on could be looking for a 2009 recovery program, although we had previously concluded and sought a recovery programme and measures to get out of this state. Here it is specifically required that the Management Board and the BHRT Service Management propose this for 2009. And something completely new is the content of point 7. Mr Dokić also spoke of: to propose that an expert working group be formed. I don't think these conclusions can be supported, personally I can't vote for this package right out of the contents of points 5 and 6. If we find a way to make a single statement, one part of these conclusions can support it. If it is a package, then I will be forced to vote "against" because points 5 and 6 were not to be found here. Thank you very much. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21783	I thank the honourable representative Matić. The following was reported by distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21784	I thank you, Chairman. What I would like to point out here today through the debate on this point, means the conclusions of the Transport and Communications Commission, is the following. The fact is that we have this agenda item at the Commission's session almost every year in the last year. This is almost permanent, as a record, a permanent point of the Commission's agenda – this situation. And what we said last time is: so thousands of pages written by various institutions who come to the Commission on the condition of this house! Following this, we had a real and a lot of debates, made 12 conclusions at the 32nd session of the House of Representatives. Here, now we have seven conclusions filled, or eight. And we have, again, you see surprises, at the 40th session, we have the 8th point: the financial report of RTVBiH on 31.12. And again we will have these stories repeated and the Commission will debate again, offer conclusions and we will spin round, the situation will remain the same. I think that one key thing that removes these problems and ensures that the system can function is full implementation of the law: the formation of a Federal TV Governance Board that is just in the course of these days, the Federation Parliament is ambushed, the establishment of a Management Board, the formation of a Corporation, that it identifies problems and that as a Corporation offers a parliamentary assembly programme that can be done. I do, and my club has no ambition to protect anyone, any individual, director of the board of directors, etc. And, if someone realized it through these discussions, our debates were misunderstood. Our interest is to protect legality, our interest is to establish a system and form a corporation. And in that direction, here I am contributing, which means that in this direction we are discussing these conclusions and what Mr Bešlagić said is that here is the vote individually on all the conclusions of the Commission, it is not the package that must be. Let it be a vote, I join that request, to vote individually on each of these conclusions. And let me say it again. So, I think that here we all have the goal of legality and only, as far as I'm concerned, how much information I have, how far through the state of this area, is to implement this law, not to send the wrong messages. The law was one of the conditions for signing the Agreement. Those four conditions were. It seems that we have deceived ourselves, but we have deceived the international community, that we have passed a law that is impossible to implement, which cannot be established, etc. To conclude, the goal is to form a system as soon as possible, to form a korporacija that identifies problems and offers Parliament a full solution to the situation in the system, the public TV system. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21785	Chairman Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21786	Dear colleagues and fellow representatives, distinguished guests, I must say that we have spent quite a bit of time discussing this issue. I don't want to oppose anyone for what he said, nor support anything for what someone said. I'm not sure that after our debate, and whatever the outcome of these conclusions, the BiH Public TV Service will be at least a little easier. And that's the question I answered. I asked myself a question. I wondered if it was rational to report, no more reports, but since even in the next session, the well-respected representative Nanić noticed, we have one point concerning the Public TV Service, perhaps it is better to say now that I would not take time for this problem. We have one general problem when it comes to the public TV system, so then the service... You could today, and also the last time we discussed this topic, it's at least my impression, you could get the impression that as someone attacks the Public TV Service, who wants to serve it at any cost, and who would still have at any cost to defend it. Now I ask the question, "Who's tearing it down and who's defending that service from whom?" Listening to the debate again, it seems to me, and I believe that the commitment of the largest number of BiH citizens is that they need public TV and system and service, but according to those principles that apply to a regulated democratic world: both independent and professional, which provides information, which informs, which is not in the service of any policy etc., etc. I'm afraid that often by wearing that service or those services and the complete system, or as attacking it, we'll, in fact, get involved in the functioning of it in a principle way, even though we're all in favour of independence. What specifically offered me for this debate was the provision of the Law quoted by the honourable representative Matić. Now I'm asking the question. And I find these conclusions that have been unanimously reached, for a principled reason, because they have been unanimously adopted on the Commission and, I think, they are of a general nature, so here, if I can help as a nice word, then okay, I can't harm for sure, these conclusions, but I don't think they can do anything spectacular in terms of healing this service. But are they in accordance with the law? If I understand this provision correctly, the Management Board does not take instructions from the authority who appointed it! And we're that organ, although not in this congregation, but it's in some past term. And what right do we have to ask the board of directors for something? I mean, I'm having a little bit of a dilemma right now. If the Management Board cannot take instructions from us, how can we ask the Management Board to propose to the Management Board, suggest to the Management Board? So, I have to say, now I've come to the dilemma, although I'd be very happy to support those who are unanimously accepted by the Commission, because I don't think they're harmful conclusions, let's just say so, and I don't think they're going to introduce any further confusion into the functioning of the Public TV Service. Some others, I think, are introducing additional confusion, and I don't want to even open a discussion about them anymore. 27 I do not know whether these conclusions, the suggestions of conclusions, are in accordance with the law and with our commitment. It seems to me the best conclusion is, but I don't know how to implement it, the formation of some, indeed, independent body that objectively, regardless of my or anyone's will, your political will here, sees the state of the Public TV service and the Public TV system of BiH, and fully proposes to us or any other body, above all, here's the Council of Ministers, perhaps, at the beginning of the measure that we in BiH would really get a public TV system and a public TV service that none of us would have the need to attack and none of us would have the need to defend, here again from one of us. So we all need a system and a public tv service, but the kind that exists in the arranged part of the world. And professional, and independent, and functional, and, thank Bog, to do business, preferably, positively, that even by financial interference we cannot influence its functionality and its objectivity. Thank you very much. Replica, the esteemed representative Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21787	... from the ruling six. [[no microphone turned on]] In the Public TV service, neither the director nor the management, nor the Management Board, but the problem was the ability of the ruling six to implement what was taken over in its agreement two years ago. I beg you, there are hundreds of living people in that service who are not paid contributions, taxes, who are not associated with a work internship, who also have their families and who do not know what their fate will be. Take these tapes of today's debate and listen to it before the vote and it will probably help you make some decision to finally resolve the matter. Two years is too long a time period to do something about it, and none of it does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21788	I don't have any more logs. Excuse me. Correction of the wrong allegation: the esteemed representative Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21789	Mr. Chairman, present colleagues, rectification of the wrong allegations about the discussion of the chairman in the sense that he had asked two questions in his discussion. Can we, through these discussions, find those who are destroying the current system and can these conclusions help? This is just for the public, who's following this, so they don't stay depriving or they bring some kind of wrong judgment, is it? I mean, through what the SDA's position is, and it's a whole legal framework, which doesn't exist right now, is something good for the TV system, but those who are obstructing that we have at this point are destroyers and I think it's quite clear at this point, and maybe these conclusions should be complemented by one such proposal. 28 Furthermore, as far as the conclusions and their quality are concerned? How and in what way can they at this point or at some point that is ahead of us help TV? So here's the conclusion of the second one: 'The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly asks the Governing and Business Committee to draw up the Rehabilitation Programme and the 2009 BHRT Development Programme and deliver them to the Parliamentary Assembly and before considering the Bill on Budget Institutions for 2009. year.' I think that in this conclusion, we have a real basis that in some perspective in some period ahead of us to help RTTV plan certain funds in the budget of the BiH institutions for 2009 to resuscitate the situation. I mean, if we had the opportunity to talk about what we talked about today, was it, with the financial committee's conclusions and the budget of the visa-based audit report, that we would have conclusions today that would have a better character and they would give some more real ground. We could talk in a way that's different here through these discussions that have been so far. There has been a problem, both financial and illegal, unrounded by this whole legislative project, etc. Through these two acts, if we had, we could have said far better what the point is, which is the problem at this point. And disrespecting existing legal accusations, because saying they won't come from the entity to pay for the tv service, not to say why they don't come, and we don't have this audit report! Here I wouldn't talk about it, we'll have a chance after that, but I'm saying that we were kind of denied to show the public in a more detailed way the current situation in the tv system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21790	I thank you, even though I didn't understand where you fixed me. Dear Representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21791	I support the club's name to vote individually, so that at least a fraction of the conclusions will pass. The other thing is, we're full of mouths about how we want an independent, impartial, professional system. I'm afraid this service state-owned and has lost support since it was independent. If he was addicted, someone would probably give him more support. The information program of this service is at least dependent on politicians. And if he got support, cash support, he'd make other quality programs, and then, normally, he'd get marketing and everything else that goes with it. It is hypocritical not to support service, television, and then object to it for failure. And finally, I have to answer to Mr. Lijanović about this constant calling of six, the ruling six. Well, the uncontrollable threesome had one club that fell apart these days. Well, you can't arrange such small things for each other, so you've had a fight, you can't have a club, about some... things. This six, however, as-so, argues but manages to reconcile some of the most important things, some of the interests that are difficult to coordinate and that things, however, are going in the state. Well, you had one club, an uncontrollable three, so you split up about the little things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21792	Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21793	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I will take the opportunity, not in the form of discussion, not the replica, not the business intervention, to remind you, not to repeat myself, to remind you of my reference to something that I have received in response to a parliamentary question from the Management Board of the Public TV System. I did not get an answer, to remind you, I did, but I drew everyone's attention to carefully reading the letter from the chairman of the Management Board in which, among other things, there is an explanation as to why the Management Board, which, as it says, did not have a mandate to make bigger decisions, was not implemented by the Law on the Public TV System, or service. Among other things, here in the end, with apologies and due respect, is it because of a longer response that they express hope that they will understand the reasons why they have raised some large questions to which they expect the answer of the competent state institutions. I just wanted to remind you of this in the context and parts of your discussion that this Parliament cannot discuss, among other things, the Management Board, or possibly the decisions of the Management Board, etc. If the Management Board has addressed this Parliament, at least using this occasion, in terms of clarification, i.e. searching for some guidelines for further work, etc., I appreciate that this letter is something that deserves special attention and that this Parliament should lead the debate on the Public TV System and Service to the elements contained, at least those elements contained in this letter. I apologize for just repeating something that was already at the 39th session in the section of "Sends and Answers", when I commented on this memo that came, but here's let me take this opportunity. I then drew attention that we should all stand over this provision in which the Governing Board asks us to make appropriate decisions, or orientations for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21794	Honorable representative Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21795	Dear Chairman, I really don't know how far we're going to go, and I really can't accept that anyone is imputing us, there's been a lot of stories about how we are against this service. I repeat again, let this case be brought to zero, to get into a situation so that we can put this corporation on its feet. We can't go into this story with unexplained accounts and financial dues like this. I repeat: who will resuscitate, from what means, who predicted, who will resuscitate the losses of this television? If we've heard in public that 300,000 marks for the return of hundreds of thousands of people are scheduled for next year, how do you think we can find one single mark to help this service? I ask a normal question: How is it possible that this service that takes 50% or close to 50% of the subscription... 30
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21796	I'm sorry, I don't understand who the replica is or what the replica is on.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21797	Replica on this subject, so we will no longer serve and please, Mr. Chairman, I support your story and all the replicas. If BN TV, alternative TV, Hayat TV, private houses can do positive financial work, because it's theirs and people's taking care of it, and this Alibeg straw, as it's called, BH TV doesn't run anyone! Which one of you thinks we're going to support any single branding for this house? We won't. So please don't let us delay this topic anymore. There is no mark and our consent to be set aside to resuscitate this house. It's a replica. As long as we work more on this story. We're not against the house, we're not against these decent people, the cameramen, what are they bothering me with, but against the thieves, I repeat, who took it down to the plane.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21798	Dear Representative Lijanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21799	I want to explain to my colleague Izetbegović why I insist on the ruling six, the responsibility and the need for results, and to explain a little. The national club that was formed for technical reasons, because once again the ruling six of us individual representatives who were elected to this home did not allow us to get an office so we could work and the only prerequisite was to make technical clubs through which we could create conditions to get a certain office that we could work. And whether or not this club is working – there is no harm to the citizens of BiH whether it is in function or not! And when the ruling six cannot carry out what was committed to the citizens of BiH two years ago, each year, it deploys 5 billion marks of the country's taxpayers, and with these 5 billion marks, it has these results! I think everyone, every citizen, and not just the MPs, should point out that it's your duty to do something. It'll be another two years, it'll be dead letters on paper. So, at point 1.2 two years ago, a commitment was made: the reform of the public broadcasting system. And today we're discussing some funny things. This really isn't sad, it'd be funny. Well, we have a 5,000-mark management salary here and rarely anyone in this BiH. And we're acting, here's the citizens following us this morning, they're going to evaluate themselves, so I don't give a grade, what our behavior is, and what the results of this work will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21800	I will refrain from any comments and conclude a debate on this agenda point. Before we move on to the 14th item of the agenda, I am obliged to inform you that we will be working until 18.00 hours today and in case of failure to work on this agenda and on the 31st agenda of the next session we will continue at 10.00 in the morning. During today's session, we will have a planned break of 14.00 hours for the planned activities of a part of the MP and for lunch in the meantime. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. Representative Adem Huskić's initiative in connection with the Decision on the restriction of imports of passenger cars, cargo vehicles and car tyres I remind you, distinguished representative Adem Huskić submitted the initiative on 18.9.2008, in 18.9.8. The College addressed the initiative to the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs to consider and to deliver an opinion to the House. We included the initiative in the 38th session agenda, but unfortunately because of the lack of quorum, the committee responsible for foreign trade and customs could not hold a session to deliver an opinion on the initiative to the House. The commission held before the start of the 39th session and delivered its opinion on the initiative. You've been given the opinion of the Committee. You have seen, the Commission did not support this initiative to amend the Decision on the restriction of imports of passenger cars, and suggests that the initiative should not be accepted by the House. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 15th point of the agenda: Ad. 15. Representative Branko Dokić's initiative to present BiH Presidency Chairman Haris Silajdžić in his address at the UN General Assembly and at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21803	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understood and realized that I would be given the opportunity to explain my initiative. Namely, the reason why I submitted this initiative is my assessment that the speeches of Haris Silajdžić, at the time of the BiH Presidency, are in two very important places, harmful, I would say, in the vital interest of BiH, and that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, more specifically, our home should be defined towards them, as future some other chairman, a member of the presidency, would not do any harm to his country. I think that, here, my opinion is shared by many officials from the international community, you could read that they have condemned Mr Silajdžić as well. This should also be added to the fact that not only was there not consent to his speeches in the Presidency, which is a common practice when he performs at such important gatherings to bring them together, but he was not even in line with the platform. And I think that's also a very ugly message, and in particular it disqualifies and raises the question of the honesty of a part of the people close to Mr. Silajdžić about some efforts to sort out this country that I'm going to end up talking about a little bit more about. It is absolutely certain that the carrying out of the false, to be very mild in the evaluation, and the wrong data or abuse and manipulation of data, in a way that they stand out in a trendy way, and also to manipulate certain sentences or parts of sentences, which is used in this speech – is very harmful. A very bad message about BiH and its very poor representation in international terms. I'll give you a few examples. 'It is', I quote, 'the only country in Europe and the world whose constitution prohibits some of its citizens from running for functions solely on the basis of their nationality.' I want to remind this parliament that this is true. Look, I forgot to say earlier that his whole story was directed against an entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21804	Mr. Dokić, allow me a second, allow me one second, please. Please kindly. So today we are discussing an initiative to put the agenda item in one of the next sessions. So, you already have a second chance, of course, to go into the measure of things, I have no intention of interrupting you, but I ask you nicely. So today we are discussing the initiative to put this item on the agenda at one of the next sessions, so Mr Silajdžić's presentations, etc. ... Then, at the College, we agreed to call the chairman and have an equal position to discuss it. So, I ask you to reduce your introductory notes. You've already listed the reasons why you're asking to put it into the agenda of one of the next sessions and last time you did it, so please, there's no need to do it when there's no man here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21805	Mr. Chairman, I didn't realize this part of the agenda like that. The point of the agenda is... 33
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21806	That's not the agenda point, this is the initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21807	Yes, please, this is what Parliamentarian Branko Dokić's initiative says about the president's presentation, so this is an initiative, and I realized that today's initiative is being discussed.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21808	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21809	Wait a minute, let me, I gave you a nice explanation, maybe I'm in...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21810	It's okay, it's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21811	I'm in no hurry to understand each other, so don't get me wrong, either today or another session. I don't want to speak by name now, and I think the MP of your club asked, and here I said, this is really being discussed today, so Mr. Silajdžić will be present. However, as far as I know, the chairman said: this is the agenda point, the regular agenda point, and there is no delay. So it was, I don't mind if Dom thinks this is just a debate about the initiative for some next session and... that it is and so, but, I once again say, I realized that this is the point of the agenda. And I'm glad there was no debate at the last session, just to give the opportunity to the one we're talking about today. But he's not here. So, there was an opportunity, 15 days passed, and I personally think that we should discuss this today, I wish it was there.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21812	It's about the Rules of Procedure. Believe it to be the Rules of Procedure and Mr Silajdžić's absence is indeed justified, obviously you all know what's going on today. So today we are discussing an initiative to include the agenda item "Exhibition of Mr Silajdžić" at one of the next sessions when we agree on the term for him to be present. That's the college's attitude, believe me. Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21813	I'd like to pray, I'll get back to you when the others get back to you, I say again, I didn't understand. I realized, I still think this is the agenda point. Remember, last time I kind of criticized myself for not sharing speeches. So now they're divided. If 34 last time and there were any elements to delay the debate on this issue, I don't think there is any today. But here, let the MPs decide, I will respect the will of the legitimate majority as it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21814	Wait a minute, please in a row, don't, please in a row. Let's take it in a row. First, Professor Dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović, Momčilo Novaković, Sadik Bahtić, Lijanović, Bećirović. Just tell me what it's about, replicas or discussion? _________(?) Discussion. Who's the replica? Bahtić? Replica, discussion? Please, Azra, then wait, let's go replicas. Let's go replicas, please wait for Azra.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21816	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21817	Well, you can change this now and say, "Here, it's a replica." So the advantage has replicas, here's the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21818	I really reacted as soon as I saw it was a misunderstanding. Mr. Dokić, in order for some initiative to be included in the agenda, this house will be declared. And we, to remind you, are still at the 39th session that began some time ago, and this Parliament, or the College is obliged to put it on the agenda when an MP initiates something. I understand only that in ignorance, therefore in business, you have today entered the metric of your debate and used such difficult terms – abuses, untrues, tending, manipulation, bad messages, etc. So we're probably going to be clear and clear about that at the time of the agenda. But let me just say it briefly. The Party for BiH MPs' club supports the adoption of this initiative and that at one of the next sittings as a part of the agenda and that at one of the next sessions by procedure, only the College will coordinate the term, put the debate, or speech of Dr Silajdžić at the UN General Assembly and the Council of Europe as a part of the agenda and that this is being discussed here. So, we support that, and we've already said that at the College, and we support this initiative, and I suggest that we don't exhaust ourselves on the scale of the debate, because it's only going to be the point of the agenda if this House supports your initiative being put on the agenda. So, I speak more business, but here's what I took advantage of, and I also took the opportunity to say the party's position. 35 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21819	Thank you. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21820	Here, Mr. Chairman, I've been given the material here, that is, the conclusion of the Foreign Affairs Commission, which took place on the 4th. 11th and which, as far as I'm concerned, gave a positive opinion on the agenda of the House's session. I thought the consequence of this decision was putting it on the agenda. I would ask the President-in-Office of the Commission to inform the House whether the Commission only discussed the initiative to put it on the agenda or to discuss the material because it is a big difference. Here, the Commission discussed it as a competent commission, so at least it says in the report that the Commission has discussed it as a competent commission. In this way, the Commission has, in fact, given the full right to hold today's debate on this agenda point, rather than whether it will be on the agenda or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21821	Dear representative Slavko Matić: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21822	Thank you very much. Since I am, in some way, appointed as chairman of this committee, I would like to respond to Agent Novaković, as well as the others. The Foreign Affairs Committee discussed this initiative by Mr Dokić in a way that we consider it as other committees are considering the laws on principles and principles in the first step. So we considered this initiative and concluded that there is both business space and business opportunities, and the need for such an initiative to be found on the agenda of the Zatupnički dom, not to the extent of what will be discussed under this initiative. As a basis for this kind of thinking at the Foreign Affairs Committee, we have already been served by the Constitutional Commission for one of the other initiatives in the procedure, the initiative of Mr. Kadrić, where the Constitutional Commission in this way also concluded, and one of the members, and otherwise the chairman of this House, Mr. Živković, as a member of the Committee, also went in this direction to determine in the first step only in terms of the business opportunity and the need for such initiative to be on the agenda, not to measure what will be discussed within the initiative. And we at the Committee didn't even get into it in our discussions. Thank you very much. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21823	Here, before I give my word for replicas and debates further, let me try to help. So, the College gives an interpretation that today we are pleading whether we are going to discuss the Initiative at one of the next sessions. That's all we say. We're going to discuss the metrics if we plead to put it on the agenda of some of the next sessions, there we go. And I, please, so that's why I gave this interpretation, in order to eventually remove the need for further discussions on this subject, I don't want to deny anyone. Dear Representative Bahtić has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21824	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21825	He's giving up. Dear Representative Kadrić: debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21826	I'm not giving up. When we talked about the agenda, I was against getting this on the agenda, and here I am today against this initiative being accepted. I'm going to suggest one conclusion: that this initiative be rejected, that it is not at all under discussion. What am I proposing? And when we talked about the agenda, I was, just to point out that I was at a club session, the club had accepted that this initiative should be included and discussed, I was against it, I felt that this initiative should not be included in the agenda, it should not be debated. So I propose one conclusion: that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives rejects the initiative of Parliamentarian Branko Dokić on the presentation of BiH Presidency President Haris Silajdžić in his address at the UN General Assembly and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for reasons that the debate and the definition of the same would be contrary to the Constitution, Article IV point 4 and Article V point 3. The BiH Constitution, in particular, in Article V point 3(a), is therefore authorised by the Presidency to lead foreign policy. I think this is in a broader sense from the domain of foreign policy. Therefore, the Presidency, members of the Bureau should not, at the request of Parliament, account here for what they have said in the international community, what they say when someone comes from representatives of the international community here. So... such a rule, that one practice should be ruled out and left us with some possibility to interfere in the jurisdiction of others who are determined by the Constitution. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21827	I thank the esteemed representative, Kadrić. Replica, the esteemed representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21828	Well, you see, I thought if we didn't accept this initiative, we'd rejected it. And now I realize that even though we don't accept it, we need to conclude that we are rejecting it, according to Mr. Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21829	The next thing you know... Is it a debate or a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21830	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21831	Is it, just so I know what it is, that I know what you're calling about?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21832	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21833	Replica, the esteemed representative Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21834	I did not ask the chairman of the BiH presidency to file accounts for us. I'm the one who asked us to define his exposure. I didn't ask him to be there either, and I would very much like him to be there, because this is not about the stranka for BiH or the Bošnjak, but about Haris Silajdžić, who went there and gave a speech on his behalf. All those words I said at first, I have arguments and documentation, full folder to explain them, and I hope I get an opportunity. With note, I forgot this earlier in the beginning to say that unfortunately I would have to use in some parts and languages of Mr. Haris Silajdžić which I consider to have been very harmful, but I will have to point to the harmfulness of the language used in the United Nations and Strasbourg. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21835	Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21836	Thank you, Chairman. 38 I fully agree with Mr Dokić, although he will be surprised that there is no need to discuss the matter of jurisdiction, nor to interfere with the foreign policy of the presidency. However, I will only remind you, a little respect for the institution, regardless of who performs the function! Mr. Haris Silajdžić was the chairman of the country's presidency at the time he gave speeches. So, don't make someone, no matter who they are, qualify and address in the way that you're trying to sort of address them as if he's acting on his own, the person who's incognito, etc. I just want to do it one more time. Indeed, what counterpart Dokić just mentioned, there are needs, it is obvious that there are needs, indeed, to explain some things from the speech. And here, I will only convey to you what Mr Silajdžić's position was: that it would be a great pleasure for him to make certain provisions of his speeches, especially if it is about calls to some international conventions, to the UN tribunal's verdict, etc., explained here in this House. So, for once, indeed, all those who may not be in progress with certain provisions of certain these and international documents may hear a little more. Because it may cause ignorance sometimes misunderstanding. And in this sense, indeed, I support the initiative and needs this Parliament, in communication with a member of the country's presidency, to explain some of the things that are contained in its speeches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21837	Dear Representative Mirko Okolić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21838	My replica refers to the fact that Mr Silajdžić, in front of the presidency, was there. Another finding that the other was not true, which is that he did not speak on behalf of the Presidency because he did not have such a decision by the Presidency and agreed to the text of the speech, but rather spoke for himself, as Haris Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21839	Dear Representative Remzija Kadrić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21840	...a little clarification with Mr. Novaković. So this initiative has been accepted in the agenda as a part of the agenda. But when we make a statement about this initiative, when we decide on this initiative, I suggest that this initiative be rejected. It is my suggestion that she be rejected, that she be not discussed, and, therefore,... when we declare the initiative to reject her.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21841	Replica, the first deputy president of Beriz Belkić. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21842	I'll take one sentence. Mr. Denise, I beg your patience. Mr. Dokić, it's a replica to you. So, the files you'll bring in etc. I ask you, therefore, when you bring in these files, to bring us arguments that prove that anything, any word Silajdžić said is not true and nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21843	No more replicas. Thank you. Orders registered for the debate, distinguished MPs: Rifat Dolić, Denis Bećirović, Jerko Ivanković, here is a list of people registered for the time being. The word has a respected representative, Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21844	Gentlemen, the chairman, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished guests, I will speak my mind very briefly, although I understand that debate on this issue should be held today, but here, as most say. I think the initiative to discuss this agenda item has its place. Of course, on condition that it spreads to the speeches and behaviours and other officials of this country who treat this country as private or party property or, from time to time, deny or belittle it. Of course, regardless of the definition of this agenda, such a debate will not be possible to avoid. Our officials are destroying the reputation and making a circus out of this country, and this House must warn such officials and let them know that their behaviour is nevertheless defined by the Constitution and the laws of this country. This debate is also needed because BiH is in a phase where it is necessary to build trust and atmosphere of consensus on reforms and catching the last train to Europe, and this really cannot be done in the atmosphere of privatisation, denial or demeaning of the BiH state. So, I will therefore support the initiative to discuss this agenda point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21845	Thank you. The following was reported by representative Denis Bećirović, and may the distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21846	I must say, unlike the official views expressed so far on behalf of the MPs' clubs, that my opinion is completely different. I think if we put this item on the agenda of the next session that this is a complete waste of time in both this Parliament and this country, and this country has no time left to waste. 40 I repeat that one more time, and in the last session I said, and I'm going to discuss why this shouldn't get into the agenda. This point is completely without purpose, without any meaning, and without any chance that at the end of this debate there may be any compromise solution or conclusion, which is the essence. And therefore, everyone here in Parliament, and from opposition and position, and one, so and the other know that there can't be any conclusion, and they want a debate. Then the question arises: What if the debate cannot be concluded at least at the end of the debate? But of course, some others judge what such a debate will do. I would like to say that this debate would be a complete failure and exclusively entertaining a broad audience in BiH in a situation where the government is not doing what it should do, and above all meeting the conditions that BiH should meet on its way to full membership in the EU. Instead, so to remove these obstacles, to move forward, colleague Dokić suggests that we further complicate the situation and deal with empty things. Kolega Dokić seems to have forgotten, as he already wants to talk about Mr Silajdžić's speech, that he voted in favour of the BiH Party's and BiH Ministers' policies two years ago and that he, along with them, makes up the ruling six. From his exposure to it as one who is neutral, who is not referred, could not come to that conclusion. I, of course, particularly think that they are harmful debates and that is why this should not be accepted. If anything in this country is considered in part, so now we need to talk about Silajdžić's speech, then someone will remember that we are discussing Kuzmanović's speech, Dodik, someone will remember again that we are discussing the resolution of the RS Assembly of February 22nd this year. This resolution is the most severe act of violating the Dayton Peace Agreement since '95. To date, because it calls for RS's right to secession, etc., and that is the right of any entity in BiH, there is no right in the BiH Constitution either, so the question is how something like that can be done. Why shouldn't this be put on the agenda? I also think it is very important that this parliament has the strength and all those sitting in this parliament, first, to face themselves, to face obstructions in this parliament and to hate this parliament. When I say so, I would first of all like to say why the MPs of the House of Representatives would discuss any speech of the BiH presidency when MPs of the ruling parties do the same from this parliament. Why, first of all, colleague Dokić, we are not discussing the work of our MPs, here for example, in the Council of Europe. Here, we got all the speeches in the Council of Europe, look at the speeches by Mrs. Marković, Hadžiahmetović, Mr. Izetbegović, etc., so you will see that this was a circus before the Council of Europe from the state, from the point of view of what they were saying and what others were saying, not entering into what the contents of these statements are accurate or incorrect, but I am telling you that it is not so good to represent the state of BiH. Take a look at your President Mladen Ivanić's speech, that is, at the Council of Europe session. A man is used to notorious lies. In the matter of the session, he says there is no Srbin in this parallel here at the Federation's House of Representatives. We all know it's a pure lie and it's not true. Unfortunately, everything seems to be possible here, many here would like to discuss non-essential topics, and what the European Parliament warns us about, daily EU representatives, and our commitments that we have after signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, 41 of which, apparently, do not want to talk. Let me figure out why this isn't supposed to support getting into the agenda. First, because any selective debate does not benefit this country and secondly, I would support one such initiative, if it were a full debate, with all speeches, with all resolutions and all those acts that have damaged the state of BiH and its entities and its peoples for the past two years. So, this initiative has only one character, and it's a day-to-day political character and for purely political use, for nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21847	You've already used your time to do that. Here you go, Mr. Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21848	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21849	Jerko, please, we have a replica. Mr. Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21850	... in the debate about this, because it's going to look like what he's been doing now, whether he's been going out, off the topic, giving everyone lessons, talking for 10 minutes. [[no microphone turned on]] And, among other things, he said that we had a circus there in the Council of Europe. Well, you know, in the Council of Europe, I fought for a year to get two amendments very good at this resolution. One refers to the application of the Constitutional Court Decision on the consistency of the people, proportionate representation. It's a very important thing. And he did it. Secondly, the second concerns the support of the Council of Europe to allocate significant funds for the implementation of the Anex VII Dayton Agreement for the next few years. If it's a circus for you, Mr. Bećirović, I mean, what are serious topics? You should congratulate us on that, not put us all in the same basket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21851	We have another replica of your exposure. Do you want to wait or do you want to wait right now? Bahtić, a replica of Bećirović's exposure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21852	Well, nothing, the club president said that the Party for BiH, so we will support this, normally to Parliament to discuss it. I think it's good to argue. I believe that what the President of the predsjednišve said in the UN in Strasbourg is true, all true, all of these are statistics, so they say, and I think the truth should be spoken right. counterpart Bećirović says that these are insignificant things, that it is a waste of time, but it is very... That's why I support the initiative to discuss both Prud and Odžak. The three of them did there, and it's against the vital interests of the BiH state and it's past the BiH Constitution. This parliament should certainly discuss 42 things, including those in Odjak. For me and that should come on the agenda as well as this speech. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21853	Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21854	The replica is exclusively for Mr. Izetbegović. Namely, he either didn't listen to my exposure, or he didn't understand what I was saying. Why do I want to say that? I made it very clear, and it can also be confirmed in the stenogram. Mr. Dokić suggests we talk about one of the talks of a member of the presidency. My message was to Parliament – let us first discuss in our area, first to see if these are any better speeches from this Parliament than they are in the BiH presidency, so that we can come to the conclusion. I made it very clear, Mr Izetbegović, that I did not enter into the content of these exhibitions and what is true or not in those exhibitions, but I said that the members of the BiH Parliament in the Council of Europe have the same diametrically different views as the members of the BiH presidency do. Everything else is a clean exchange of thesis and misinformation to the public.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21855	Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21856	Thank you, Chairman. I appreciate the initiatives that are born again on this initiative. It will likely be the subject of further initiatives but what counterpart Bećirović mentioned earlier that it would be better to discuss the speeches of parliamentarians from this assembly in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I will just remind you that we have it. We have even adopted conclusions that this Parliamentary Assembly is discussing the speeches of MPs. Here, I will just remind you, if you need to take a stenogram, I have asked that, even after every session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the minutes together with our speeches be delivered to every MP. I am sorry that my initiative was not adopted before the agenda point when the monitoring report was in the Council of Europe, when I asked that we first discuss this monitoring before the delegation came up. I will also remind you, since you have called me a circusman before, Mr Bećirović, you have indeed done so, it may have been an unfortunate construction but it was so, I will only remind you that I have made my own initiative at the beginning of the mandate, this term in the Council of Europe, and made my mandate available if this Parliamentary Assembly concludes that I have made a mistake somewhere. Thank you. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21857	Dear Representative Dokić came forward, but you've already used two replicas, so you can't. I'm looking to see if anyone else has a replica. There isn't. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Jerko Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21858	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I greatly appreciate the constructive work of my colleague Dokić, but this time I will not support his proposal, because I believe that this is a matter of the ruling six, not the issue of this parliament. Mr Silajdžić spoke as a member of the ruling six, and you should sit in coalition rooms and agree that your members will come forward when they speak or when they speak to such very important institutions. At the end of my speech, I'll just quote one sentence from Mr Silajdžić. He says, "Now is the time to correct these mistakes." Soon we will begin working on a new BiH constitution and the outcome of the process will give answers to many of these issues. I suppose Mr Silajdžić holds to these programming principles that the ruling six signed a little less than two years ago. Point 3 clearly states: 'To bring constitutional solutions that will establish a functional and modern BiH, with a European standard.' I suppose that's the preparation for a new constitution, and I think we should get a new constitution to discuss it, not what one of the members of the ruling six said in an institution. That I am asking you, in party rooms, to resolve it, not to waste the time of this Parliament, because most of the parliaments in the world and Europe are now discussing a difficult economic situation, the financial crisis, the damages that will arise on these issues, and basically we are trying to impose what a six-member was saying somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21859	Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21860	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have come to an absurd situation. So, we want to discuss Mr Silajdžić's speech, and today repeatedly deny the institution of the presidency, we ourselves are sitting here; as Mr. Dokić said Mr. Silajdžić had said, and wrote in his initiative the chairman, to Mr. Lijanović, who says representative of the ruling six. Then, on whose behalf Mr Komšić speaks when he is out of the country or in the country when he speaks on behalf of the state of BiH, he has legitimate rights under the Constitution. So we're very, very much in one big bullet here and I think 44 that I don't even know, so how to define myself when it comes to this whole story that we started here today. So let us try to rule by the Constitution and appreciate the institution, any institution, whether we like it or not, whether we like the policy that someone is leading, but let us appreciate the BiH institution. It's our obligation here, so we took an oath, after all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21861	No more reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21862	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21863	As the proposer of this agenda point, I'll give you another brief statement, here's how it works. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Since it's concluded, since you've used everyone's right to debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21865	Thank you very much. I would only like to say to my colleagues Bećirović that the specific weight of what the first man in the country says cannot be measured with all respect to Azra and Mladen and Bakir, with a member of our delegation in the Parliament of Europe. It's immeasurable. I will not defend the Mladen or any of them. So it's on one side. On the other hand, my neighbor here, he by that Kartagina, by the way, needs to destroy everything, six, six, six! And the six are part of this parliament and you are part of this parliament, and this parliament has the right and has the need to speak about the statements of those people representing BiH, especially in such important places as the UN, not underestimating Strazbur either. On the other hand, I said it was a practice for members of the Presidency and the chairman, any of the members of the Bureau to step forward to agree to speak. This time it's not done, it's not even a matching platform. And in that context, I said that he spoke, if we follow that sequence of customs and practices, then he spoke for himself. But that's not the weight. The weight is in the messages sent there. I think these messages are very harmful and these are individual messages, they're not party messages, I say once again, they're not messages from Sarajevo, they're not from Bošnjak, they're from one individual. 45 I hope you will have the understanding to discuss them and see, if you are patient, that they are harmful to BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21866	Dear Representative Bahtić, replica second.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21867	...is not true. It is a message from the chairmanship elected by 350,000 BiH citizens, and that is the message, not the individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21868	Dear Representative Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21869	I'll do it very briefly. I just want to say that everything in this country, and what comes from this country, has a certain weight, smaller or larger. Therefore, both the UN speech and the presentation in Parliament, i.e. in the Council of Europe and the resolution of the RS Assembly and a number of other things that are negatively representing BiH in the world, have their specific weight and should therefore, if we want to talk about it, speak fully and not selectively, and therefore I am against this agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21870	Dear Representative Okolić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21871	My replica is to my fellow MP Dokić, on his claim that it is necessary to agree the speech before they go to, let me say, some international institutions and there say something. I don't think that's good, but they need to agree on the text, the written text of the speech, and they read it there, because they can be confused in the meantime, they can forget what they're orally agreed on, so they have it written there and they can read it there.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21872	Dear Representative Ivanković, Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21873	I took a look at the text of the speech, and I don't see Mr. Silajdžić fenced himself from one of his functions when he was saying this. So it is evident that he spoke as the chairman of the BiH presidency, it is evident that he is the president of the Party for BiH, it is evident that he is a member of the ruling six. So, he hasn't fenced himself from any of his functions, and he's talking, so in the name of the functions he's acting. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21874	Dear Representative Azra Alajbegović, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21875	Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I would really just like to replicate my colleague Dokić as former Minister of Communications, then as the chairman of the Communications Commission, he is very concerned when we discuss this initiative and the measure of the matter that there are five specific traps in communication. And that the starting trap is what a man thinks, and then what he says, so what the other one hears, how he understands, how the other one understands, so that it multiply depends on a whole series of factors. And I mean, if we were to think about it with one clear goal, which is the well-being and perspective of this country, that today we wouldn't listen to everything we heard -- damage, counterproductive, circus and all those words that we fought so rarely for in that Code of Conduct.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21876	No more reports for replicas. And there is, so there is. Dear Representative Bakir Izetbegović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21877	Well, it's either a replica or a discussion. I don't think we need to introduce this practice to the House to introduce that we're discussing what who said, who's the speech where he's been, because then there's going to be a practice of it. One precedent will be made, and we will move here into barren discussions that will only deepen between us gaps and make further mistrust between us. So, I don't think that's the way. Mr. Silajdžić has the right to say what he thinks. I read his speech, he lied nothing. Half the population of this country has been displaced, dozens have been killed, dozens are severely disabled, we know what happened to us in the Srebrenica genocide, terrible crimes everywhere. Is the way to fix these things by going to the General Assembly and bringing the problem forward? It's, it's his assessment, he's entitled to his assessment, he lied to nothing. So the present is the hostage of the past as it is and obviously we haven't solved things in BiH. We also have a future that is uncertain because of this past and this present. It would be better if we could untangle those knots ourselves, make a deal and talk less about the past, more about the future. But it is his right to judge for himself what is the cure for the future of this country and what should be told strangers. And I don't think it's the way, and it's not a good idea for me to be told by the chairman, and by the way, by the way, by the people we've seen, we bring into this house and we're still here alone, we're fighting or something. So, I suggest we reject this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21878	Dear Representative Savo Erić, replica. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21879	Mr. Chairman, thank you. My replica refers to the question: Did Haris Silajdžić speak in front of the presidency and his own name and speak for this country? He spoke, so on his own behalf and in front of the presidency and in front of the BiH state, in front of all the issues and represented where BiH should go and which direction. This is obviously now the task of the future chairman, Radmanović, to prepare the next issue that will bring us back two steps. I really took this speech as a pre-election story, and the people rated it as he wanted it to be. I would just like to suggest that we try to make members of the Presidency represent this country in the direction of the economy; and we are dealing with these issues, we are launching an initiative on the past that we cannot change, and you know that it has not been accepted anywhere and that we have burning problems here. So the whole world's worried about the crisis. We're the only ones sitting here. We will most likely not discuss the budget until all these initiatives are completed by February, and then we will urgently discuss the budget and all the issues in February, and that is why people voted us and I think that primarily all the issues were directed towards the economy, development, growth. And these people today, who look at us, don't care what it was anymore, you know, and you don't need to repeat it like a parrot, and especially shouldn't people who run politics lead parties to go that way. If we're going that way, then why are we discussing the European path? Is this our way? When are we going to discuss those 130 or 160 points we need to settle? When we're going to settle all that, this Parliament needs to say. I'm really trying and, the chairman, last time I said, let's go back and discuss important issues for life, and then, when this term is over, we'll discuss politics and we'll re-examine everything once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21880	Thank you. No more reports for replicas. Your Honor, who? Honorable representative Kalabić reported earlier for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21881	I apologize to the chairman, I thought you were following these with replicas, so I may not have responded in time, but I owe it to the SNSD Club to say a few sentences on this agenda point. One objection: I followed that Mr. Kadrić, the head of defence, was the first to raise his hand and that you were the last to give him your word. I think that, here I see it well, I think it should be noted that... (about technique speaking) he quickly raised his hand, and the last one was getting his word. The SNSD club will support this agenda point for many reasons. We also believe that there is a need for Mr. Haris Silajdžić to be an important person in this country and that it is untasteful to compare him with another much less important and to those who have also had some problematic statements or speak. It cannot even be compared to the fact that he was chairman of the presidency and that 48 of the speech was held at the UN. Those who flee... from the debate forget that before a period of time here have raised the question of rhetoric in BiH, they have taken it from representatives of the international community and here's the opportunity. It is said to be one of the things that is very problematic in BiH. That's what international officials rated. And here, individuals from the SDP also said that all the time the problem of rhetoric is one of the problems, I don't mean the only one. Here, now that we've come to see if that's really a problem, here we go, like it's not. As it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. I think so. Also, those who will engage in proving that all what Haris Silajdžić said is true, if this proof succeeds, I assume that we will send a fierce protest note to all representatives of the international community, and some to declare unwanted in BiH that have fallen upon Haris Silajdžić in recent days, weeks and months. The order is, if we prove that the speech was valid and correct, to direct it to the people, to say that such assessments as they have spoken of it do not stand, that it is not appropriate. We believe that speech is very harmful, harmful to BiH, yes, not to the full of untruths, but also to the full of insults. And it's very difficult in the atmosphere, when the first man of the country, at that point, speaks such a language and in such a way about such things, that what someone in the SDS said to keep working normally is difficult. It probably makes sense what you said, but that someone like that about the RS, about an institution like the RS, is talking about it that way, and to participate in these reform processes, it's very difficult. I don't mind, but we'll probably have to discuss this, because when the institution of the presidency is respected, it is respected. Someone told the SDA MPs that all institutions should be respected. But the institution, let's say, the RS can and has the right to step footing, and then justice and there are reasons why, why, why it seems. I think it may be and, here, that it is time that in this way Parliament has the right to, if, it will be a political assessment, we cannot in any other way, mean no sanctions and anything else, because we do not want to get involved in the trap that Haris Silajdžić as a member or chairman of the Presidency does not have the right to speak. I mean, just the job, some people wanted to tell us that, so, we have the right to a political assessment of that and that kind of speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21882	Dear Representative Selim Bešlagić is a replica, and the next is the distinguished representative of Bahtić, and the next is the distinguished representative Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21883	I didn't mean to replicate, but it's about the next one. Before, on the 13th point, we had the board of directors of RTVBiH, management, and then here you gentlemen said that we had no right to enter, I would say, making decisions that threaten the independence of the board of directors. Is the presidency more than the board of directors of RTVBiH? Say it! If it is, it is; if it isn't, it isn't; let's say... That's why you'd be willing to put this item on the agenda by law. If by law and by law we have the right, I agree; if by law we don't have the right, as the esteemed colleague said, then let's say, when we say whether to put this on, let's think about these things again. That's why I should generally put our leaders' rhetoric on the table. This proposal that was here, we can do it. But in part, then there will be one, the other, the third, in this way we in fact 49 things that are very important for this country – entry, meeting the conditions for EU accession, we are slowly putting aside, and we are only going to discuss these things. So I'd like to ask you one more time just to see if it's legal. So, when it comes to the vote, let's see if Mr. Kadrić has smoothed it out properly and if we can claim it. I'm for, I'm not afraid to argue, after all, but then I'm for a general debate on the rhetoric of all our leaders and all our people, after all, in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21884	My apology to the esteemed MP Bahtić, you have already used two replicas, so this one is not possible. Dear Representative Erić, second replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21885	Just a replica to Mr. Kalabić. Everyone has the right to launch an initiative, I am not contesting it, but I am trying to make my contribution to making the initiatives pass faster, to come to the agenda as soon as possible and to have the opportunity to discuss important things for this country as possible. That was my suggestion. So I'm not contesting that story, and absolutely, if you're looking for it, so I'm not thinking of giving a positive basis for this speech that's about it. So I'm absolutely in favour of going into procedure, so we can finish this as soon as possible. We won't benefit from that, because that speech was a month ago and something, it's already past.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21886	Honorable representative Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21887	Here, I agree with what my colleague Erić said, I think we understand each other. So, not to slow down a positive approach, we said that under that impression it's very difficult to go in that positive, but if we succeed, here we have nothing against it. This, as far as the SDP is concerned? Well, I know you're using this situation for the sake of SDP or colleagues Bešlagić, but then I have to tell my colleagues Bećirović. I think that you, I know, and normally use this situation, to smile a little with a member of the BiH presidency today, using that Denis termology circus in the Parliament of Europe. The only thing he didn't say was who's there for the bars, who's for the trapeze in that story! And now, bringing the chairmanship down to the level of the cameraman or editor of television! He can't do that. Well, the board of directors, so it can't be... I mean, I'm not into it, and I don't agree with that. I know you have a political goal of bringing him down to the cameraman level. Those of the SDA forgot him on the way to Odjak and that's a real situation. I know you're using it. But we're not, we're not letting him get in that trap. We think the speaker's speech is important for this country, that it's important. And I agree that other things we need to discuss 50 things, but in the rank to which they belong. I don't mind what you said, but I still don't want to take away the importance or place in the exact same position of some others, not diminishing their significance, but I think we should, if we want to respect the institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21888	Thank you. Dear Representative Adem Huskić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21889	Here, I have a replica. We are talking about the request, not the measure of things, but here we started talking about the metrics, so in that sense I have a replica of not now this but the previous exposure of colleagues Kalabić, in the part where he said: so he spoke about Mr Silajdžić's speech and said that it does not contain false but contains insults. I'd just say that the essence of the whole speech is actually to quote international organisations and institutions, and if they're insults to someone who's offended, then he really needs to imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21890	Thank you. Is it a replica or a debate? Dear Representative Novaković's hearing, then your question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21891	I'll brief the SDS position on this initiative. Namely, we believe, we will support this on the agenda, although we are fully aware that by putting this on the agenda we will enter into a debate that we probably don't even know how to get out of. I must say, I do not think that the speech by Haris Silajdžić is worth the attention he gives him, nor do I think he has the range of what, by giving him that attention, we are giving him. Namely, the extent of his speech, as well as the fact that the UN Assembly subsequently did not adopt any act to pay attention to it, showed that at least she had paid attention to this speech. On the other hand, this speech is very important on BiH's path to the EU, and it will likely contribute faster to BiH's path as the EU. And if that were the case, the fact is that after this speech and speech at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mr Haris Silajdžić is no longer saying anything. So it also tells how far these talks have been and what the attitude of those to whom this talk is directed toward this talk is. The only concrete result of Mr Silajdžić's speech is that a three-way meeting was held in Odzak, not a six-way meeting. And that's the greatest range of this speech. So, regardless, we will get involved in the debate about this and therefore support that this is on the agenda, fully aware that our debate on this will not have any greater scope than Haris Silajdžić's speech. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21892	Dear Representative Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21893	Mr. Chairman, you see, we have today's formulated agenda item: 'Prosecutor Branko Dokić's initiative on the presentation of BiH Presidency Chairman Haris Silajdžić in his address at the UN General Assembly and at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.' We received a speech from Mr. Chairman Silajdžić in the UN, and now, in order to be able to define this, I would ask the Proposer to say, apart from such an ungrably formulation, what is the objective of this initiative and what does he expect as a result of the debate on this initiative? Here, I'd just like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21894	The question has been asked, and I do not want to deny the esteemed responder he asked for, so I will allow the esteemed Proposer of the Initiative to answer the question briefly.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21895	Well, I think I said it at first, and I wrote it in my initiative. So, I think that speech is harmful to the interests, to be more precise, in the vital interests of BiH, and that from that point of view, Parliament deserves to be defined according to that speech. That speech is full of communication traps, which was spoken of by a distinguished colleague of Azra, and he is completely in the spirit of that one story that says: 'Hruščov and Kenedi ran for 100 meters and of course won Kenedi Jr. The US media reported that the two presidents' race had been held, that the US president had arrived first, and that the president of the Soviet Union was the most convincing one, and the Moscow media reported that the two presidents' race had been held, that the Russian, or the president of the Soviet Union, had taken an extraordinary second place, and that the American president had arrived earlier." This speech is full of such communication traps, I am aware of these facts, and precisely in my explanation will be the discovery of these traps, and these traps and these messages of such communication are very harmful to BiH. I believe many have not seen them. So one is the fact, and the other is the use of the fact that it sends a very wrong ugly picture, that I'm not saying any more epithets to describe it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21896	Business intervention, a respected representative of Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21897	Since this point is indeed somewhat ungrably formulated, and given that we have been having a debate, not only this initiative to be at the next point, we have already entered 52 content of speech, I suggest one conclusion if possible, and that is that until the end of the vote, Col. Dokić draws up what he was talking about, one conclusion, and that today at the vote we make a statement on that agenda point, that we do not waste time at any of the next sessions, if possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21898	Dear Representative Kadrić, what is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21899	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21900	Replication, second.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21901	This is the second replica to Novaković, an honourable MP, for the sake of the public only one sentence. Indeed, these conclusions, his comments from which he concludes that the result of Haris Silajdžić's speech to the UN and the Council of Europe is that he is no longer speaking, and that he was not at the talks in Odzak – he is indeed without any comment. It really doesn't deserve to be commented and bordered by decency and other things at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21902	No more reports. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. We move on to the discussion of the 16th point: The Initiative of Representatives of Remzija Kadrić for the debate. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm asking you, since we were planning a break at 1400 hours, if it's not a particularly important reason, to respect and work until 14:00. Thank you. So we're going to consider item 16 of the agenda: 53 Ad. 16. Remzija Kadrić's motion for debate at the House on the resolution of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska on the goals and measures of the RS, from the 14th special session, held on 15.10.2008
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21906	I'm thanking you. I'm really going to explain this initiative for a little while. So, in the resolution of the National Assembly of 15 October of this year at the 14th special session, among other things... (you have received this explanation of my initiative) in item 4 states, among other things, "The National Assembly is asking the President of the Republic of Slovenia to propose to the National Assembly a platform for talks on the reform of the Constitution and on the protection of the interests of the RS and on these talks." 'The platform would be,' I stress, 'a binding framework for all RS political representatives.' So, I want to say a few more things. We MPs who come from the RS, every one, I won't say every day, but very often we get conclusions, decisions, attitudes of the National Assembly. I'll only give you two. One conclusion of the National Assembly, which was delivered on 15 October this year, which stands, among other things, says: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia requires the representatives of the RS in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to" (e.g. on one law, on the Law on genetically modified organisms of BiH) 'only if the law protects consumers, businesses and agriculture of the RS and BiH', etc. Then, there is one conclusion of the government, such as 'The Government of the Republic of Slovenia recommends', this is not of course a recommendation, 'the representatives of the RS in the joint institutions of BiH not to vote for the adoption of the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Matters of BiH'. So I could count more of those things here. I want you here, so you have this initiative, there's a reason in this initiative, so Parliament here is in principle determining whether we need to, is it in accordance with the Constitution to make such initiatives, that these 54 views of the National Assembly are binding, binding things for the MPs coming from the entity. Thus, these views are contrary to the BiH Constitution, Article IV point 4, contrary to the BiH Election Law and the House of Representatives' Rules of Procedure in Article 3, which speaks of how MPs should act. So, this initiative could be discussed a lot more, but for the sake of time, I only use these short notes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21907	I thank the esteemed representative, Kadrić. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, it's closed, so we don't make exceptions. Thank you. We've exhausted the agenda. If no one's asking for five minutes, possibly for consultations, we'd go straight to the statement on the revised agenda. If you appreciate it, here's five minutes just to take a break for a consult and we'll continue at 13.35. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21910	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21911	Here, Secretary Home suggests we can't do it without a third member of the College, and we won't. So, about the adjustments, you'll be notified in good time. We move on to a statement on the 4th point of the agenda of Azra Hadžiahmetović's motion for an examination of the draft law amending the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the BiH institutions following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. We're voting on the request. Stand by. Vote now! 19 votes "yes", nine "against", three "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. The results of the merger, you will be notified later. We move to a statement on the 5th item of the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Witness Protection Programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading). In the plenary phase, we have three amendments to the distinguished representative Milorad Živković. We're voting on amendments. We're voting on amandman I.. moliti prepare. Vote now! 10 votes "yes", 17 "against", four "abstained" - I find that amandman I. is not accepted. 56 We vote on amandman II.. Vote now! Nine votes "for", 17 "against", six "abstained" - I find that amandman II.. not accepted. We vote on amandman III.. Vote now! Nine votes "for", 18 "against", four "abstained", amandman III.. not accepted. We're moving on to a statement on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 19 votes "yes", nine "against", four "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. On the results of the alignment, you will be notified later. We move to a statement on the 6th point of the agenda of the draft Law amending the Criminal Procedure Act – Proposer Constitutional Commission (second reading). We don't have any amendments. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Vote now! 32 votes "yes", without the vote "against", one vote "abstained" - I agree that the draft law amending the Code on Criminal Procedure has been adopted. We move to a statement on the 7th point of the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the settlement of liabilities based on the account of the old foreign exchange savings – the Proposer of the Council of Ministers (second reading). We have two amendments to the honourable representative selo Bešlagić. We're voting on amendments. We're voting on amandman I.. glasovati now. Nine votes "yes", 20 "against", three "abstained" – I find that amandman I. is not accepted. We move on to the Declaration on amandman II.. Vote now! 57 Eight votes "for", 19 "against", four "abstained" – I find that amandman II.. not accepted. We're moving on to a statement on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Vote now! 17 votes "yes", eight "against", eight "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. The results of the merger, you will be notified later.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21912	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21913	Dear Representative Bešlagić, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21914	... asked if the law, amendments do not pass to give this home an interpretation of Articles 28 and 5. The law on the settlement of liabilities based on the account of old foreign exchange savings. [[no microphone turned on]] If he can do that, then after the alignment when that conclusion comes in, I'd like to ask you. So, just to give the House an interpretation of Article 28 and Article 5. The law on the settlement of liabilities based on the account of old foreign exchange savings. So, after getting into college.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21915	In accordance with the procedure, please submit in writing an application for authentic interpretation of the article of the law and will be sent to the procedure for making authentic interpretations. We move to a statement on the 8th item of the agenda of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading). There are no amendments. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Vote now! 32 votes "yes", with no votes "against" and "abstained" -- I find that the House of Representatives has adopted a bill amending the Law on the Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina in a second reading. We move to a statement on the 9th point of the agenda of the Proposal of the Law on Determiners of Crimes and Criminal Protection of Children and Minority (first reading). We have two conclusions within this point. He is the first respected representative of Adem Huskić to propose that the bill be postponed. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21916	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21917	Dear Representative Huskić is withdrawing this proposal. We're going to make a statement on the bill in the first reading. Please prepare. Vote now! 27 votes "yes", without the vote "against", six "abstained", a sufficient entity majority. I find that the proposal for a law on minor perpetrators of criminal offences and criminal protection of children and minors is accepted in the first reading. We have a proposal by distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović to adopt the bill in the first reading and commit the Constitutional Commission to organise a public debate on the bill proposal. Please prepare to make a statement on the proposal for this conclusion. Vote now! 31 votes "yes", without the vote "against", two "abstained", a sufficient entity majority. I agree that this proposal has been accepted by the esteemed representative, Šefik Džaferović. We move to a statement on the 10th item of the agenda: Proposal for a decision on the BiH Presidency's mandate to submit a Report on the cost of the Presidency – Proposer: Representative Savo Erić. The motion for a decision has been made. Please prepare to plead. Vote now! 30 votes "yes", without the vote "against", three "abstained", a sufficient entity majority. I find that the motion for a decision has been accepted. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: the Commission's report to the College on the effort and agreement on the SDA's proposal for a conclusion in the context of the debate on the State Commission's review of decisions on the naturalisation of foreign citizens in BiH for the period from 1. 1. 2008 to 30. Six. In 2008, with the proposal for a conclusion. We're moving on to a statement in the second round. Please prepare. You're voting now! 16 votes "yes", 10 "against", eight "abstained", an insufficient entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21918	This is the second round, the votes "against". 59
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-0.u21919	Insufficient votes "against". We repeat the vote at the request of the SNSD Club. Please prepare. Vote now! "For" six, 11 "against", five "abstained", two-thirds of the vote "against" from the RS, and I find that the proposal for a conclusion is not accepted. We move to a statement on the 12th item of the agenda: Information from the Council of Ministers on the request of Representative Rifat Dolić. We heard, within this point, oral information from the respected Minister Vrankić. And in the meantime, after the first part of the session, we received information from the Council of Ministers in writing and it was delivered to you. I suggest we vote for information to be received. Please prepare. Vote now! 21 votes "yes", one "against", 11 "abstained", a sufficient entity majority – I understand that the House of Representatives has received information from the Council of Ministers regarding the request of MP Rifat Dolić. Dear Representative Rifat Dolić has proposed conclusions in two points. I hope you have them. We're voting on both the conclusions in the package. Please prepare. Vote now! The conclusions of the esteemed representative of Dolić. The 22 votes "yes", two "against", six "abstained", a sufficient entity majority -- I understand that the conclusions of the respected representative Rifat Dolić have been accepted. We move to a statement on the 13th point of the agenda: The proposal for a conclusion of the Transport and Communications Committee on the occasion of the debate on the point: The current situation in RTVBiH and the implementation of the reform of the Public TV System in BiH. Several MPs have suggested that we declare our conclusions individually, so that's what we're going to do. Before that we have... Proposal for the conclusions of the distinguished representative Kalabić. Please prepare to plead. So, the proposal for the conclusion of the esteemed representative Kalabić. Vote now! 16 votes "yes", nine "against", eight "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. The results of the merger, you will be notified later. 60 The next is the proposal for the conclusion of the esteemed representative Husein Nanić. Please prepare. Vote now! 20 votes "yes", three "against", eight "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. On the results of the match, you will be notified in good time. We move on to a statement on the proposal for the conclusion of the esteemed representative Joza Križanović. Please prepare. Vote now! 16 votes "yes", 11 "against", seven "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. The results of the agreement on this proposal for a conclusion will be notified in good time. We're moving on to a statement on the Commission's proposal for a conclusion. We will state our conclusions individually. Please prepare. So the Commission's proposal is a total of eight conclusions and we're going from first to eighth. First, we declare the conclusion number one. Please prepare. Vote now! 30 votes "yes", without "against", four "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, and I find that the 1st conclusion has been accepted. We move on to the statement of conclusion number 2. Vote now. 30 votes "yes", three "abstained", without "against", with a sufficient entity majority and number two's conclusion was accepted. We move on to the statement of conclusion number three. Vote now! 29 votes "yes", with no votes "against" and four "abstained" votes, with a sufficient entity majority and number 3's conclusion accepted. We move on to the statement of conclusion number 4. 61 Vote now! 25 votes "yes", without the vote "against", eight "abstained", a sufficient entity majority and number four's conclusion accepted. We move on to the statement of conclusion number 5. Vote now! 16 votes "yes", 16 "against", two "abstained", we do not have a majority, and the 5th conclusion is not accepted. Let's move on to the statement of conclusion number six. Please plead. Vote now! 16 votes "yes", 14 "against", four "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. The results of the merger, you will be notified. Let's move on to the statement of conclusion number 7. Vote now! 27 votes "yes", one "against", five "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, and I find the number 7 conclusion accepted. And we're going to make a statement on conclusion number eight. Vote now! 23 votes "yes", five "against", five "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, and I find that the 8th conclusion is accepted. We move to a statement on the 14th item of the agenda: Adem Huskić's initiative in connection with the Decision on the restriction of imports of passenger cars, freight vehicles and car tyres. We're voting on the Initiative. Please prepare. Vote now! 13 votes "yes", 14 "against", seven "abstained" - I find that the initiative is not accepted. We move to a statement on the 15th item of the agenda: Representative Branko Dokić's initiative in connection with the presentation of BiH Presidency Chairman Haris Silajdžić in his address at the UN General Assembly and at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We're voting on the Initiative. Please prepare. Vote now! 16 votes "yes", 14 "against", three "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. 62 About the results of the alignment, you will be informed. We should now, however, put to the vote and the proposal for a conclusion by the honourable representative Kadrić. Please state the proposal for the conclusion of the honourable representative Kadrić. Vote now. [[Common discussion]] So, we've been pleading on the Initiative, we don't have enough entity majority, so we haven't made a decision either to accept or not to accept the Initiative, and the proposal of a respected representative, Kadrić, is to take the initiative off the two-way, not to be included in the agenda. Since we have made no decision, I appreciate that there is a reason to vote on this proposal for a conclusion. Do you agree? Should we put this on Dom's statement? So, please prepare and plead on the proposal for the conclusion of the honourable representative Kadrić. [[Common discussion]]
