ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16754	Fellow MPs, please continue the work of the 24th session of the House. According to our service, only the honourable MP Lagumdžija announced... and the honourable MP Hadžiahmetović that he would be left this session. We have a quorum to work with. I remind you that the remaining unrealized were the 9th, 10th, 12th, 13, 16th and 17th points of the adopted agenda. Prior to the opening of the debate on the 9th item of the agenda, Information from the Council of Ministers on activities related to the formation and work of the Commission to examine the truth about the death of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej and others in Sarajevo in the period '92-'95. For years, I'd like to make two remarks. One refers to today's session of our Joint Defence and Security Commission, which will be held at 5:00 p.m. and the opportunities we announced yesterday that the House of Representatives could schedule a special session at 2:00 p.m. on Thursday and that the amendments, all MPs who have submitted to our commission, may already count from now on, as if the amendments that are being defended again. We have a business opportunity to defend ourselves after the end of the session 24 hours. I am now giving you the opportunity to apply for those amendments you want to defend, given the situation that the amendments were not in the last session of the commission. And the second note is in front of our Gender Equality Commission. Dear MP Malić wanted to give a brief notice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16755	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have a task in front of the Gender Equality Commission to invite you and remind you of an action that we as a commission started on March 8th, which means collecting financial assistance for the work of the Safe House for the Protection of Women Victims of Family Violence in Bihac. Already all of our Parliament's employees have started this campaign with a charity contribution, a voluntary contribution on March 7th, and I remind you that today, at the break of today's session, there will be a box for voluntary contributions at the door, and I think we will all take part in the adjustment of some monetary assistance as support, because it is indeed an expression of goodwill. If nothing else – and we adopted a resolution on the fight against domestic violence – in some way this house that has the least financial flow needs to be helped. I thank you in advance for your cooperation and cooperation and thank you very much. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16756	Thank you. So I'm opening a debate on the ninth point of the agenda. Ad. Nine. Information from the Council of Ministers on activities related to the formation and work of the Commission on the examination of the truth about the death of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej and others in Sarajevo from 1992 to 1995 Dear Ambassador Novaković called last time. Do you want to continue the debate, or will you call back later? Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16758	Dear chairman, ladies and gentlemen, as long as I was in NGOs, I stood up and asked the authorities at BiH level to resolve this war fate which is a stumbling block for all other activities in BiH. And unfortunately, there was no political will for this country to make every effort, so to resolve war fate. When I say war fate, to first find all the victims in every place, in every village, and where people were terrified. When I say people, I don't mean of course, and I don't mean nationality, to at least share them because no matter what people belonged to, these people were victims of the unfortunate war past and of the war cataclysm that left incredible consequences for this country. If you remember last year, when it was the D.A.'s report, I asked BiH's chief prosecutor to make a strategy that would not last more than five years, to make maximum efforts and to complete the cases we see today that have been stifled by the BiH Court of Justice. All this is causally related and those perpetrators who committed war crimes and the fate of people and their families, who, here for 17 years or 16, depend on what part of it was happening, are looking for their loved ones. But to get back to this point on the agenda. So, not wanting to balance the war crimes committed in certain areas, I've always advocated a balance in the amount of justice done, justice for the victims. Unfortunately, none of the three key segments, to bring reconciliation to the people, are fulfilled. So there's no justice for victims, and justice is a prerequisite for truth, so there's no complete truth, and the question is whether it's ever going to come out, and then the truth is a prerequisite for trust. I won't say reconciliation because reconciliation is the individual act of each individual and you can't impose one law that you love someone if you don't, but we have to make every effort to resolve this. I don't have to be right, but it seems to me that we've solved and learned the truth from World War II, so other things don't happen to us again in the '90s. This committee has been formed by... the Council of Ministers, at the request of the previous call of this Parliament and I must say that 3 I was then the only one against the establishment of such a commission because I also know today that commissions are formed by Parliament when nothing will be determined. First, the authority of this commission was not clearly defined because the Council of Ministers had done nothing. Secondly, the commission that began to do something apparently had no authority to order any entity or cantonal local institution to provide them with all relevant information, which they have on people who have been killed. What is certain is that Srbin are interested in the fate of the Srbin death but, to be pragmatic and real people, it is not possible to investigate the death of only one people, so we said to all citizens and all peoples, regardless of nationality, in Sarajevo. I've already said how this committee was formed and we see today that it was one action or, I don't know, some moves of irresponsible people, politicians who at first knew that she wasn't going to get any results, and that just happened. I have to get to know this Parliament for the genealogy of events that happened and why this commission didn't need to be formed in that way at all. As an authorised representative of families of the Serb people, who sought their missing in Sarajevo, and here and today - no one knows exactly how much these people are wanted and it is no wonder that we do not know how many victims we are looking for during the war when we know nothing today. We don't even know how many of us are alive, etc. So, in 2004, on February 20th, I launched the procedure before the BiH Constitutional Court, as an authorised representative of the families seeking their missing and delivered 71 applications, I completed the case, but now it is not all within the framework of this commission, but to know the genealogy. The case was held at the Constitutional Court on 27 May at a plenary session in 2005 when the Constitutional Court made a final executive and binding decision obliging the Federation Government to provide me with answers within 30 days for the persons I stated to be wanted as missing. And faces before the Constitutional Court and appeals can only be submitted on the first auxiliary line of the nearest kinship, father, mother, son, brother, sister and completed. Can't be a friend or a neighbor. But to go back, so I didn't want to make it, and don't get me wrong, and I don't think I'm making a comparison with those appeals, with the Srebrenica case, but it was identical with the legal thing. I'm talking about the legal thing. I'm not talking about the number of people killed. However, since we have such a court as we have and now, according to my information, 80 decisions of the Constitutional Court stand, which no one implements, and yet why, when that court is not there, there is no law on the work of that court, but they do according to some of their own rules and all of this shows what kind of country we are. All that shows what's going on here, but good. So you don't answer anything, of course, goes on. I get the approval of the High Representative, then of that unfortunate Ešdaun, that he will do and impose a commission to suffer, interrogate Srbin, but I don't want it, I accept that we are investigating the death of Srbin, Bošnjak, Hrvat, Jevrej, Rom, everyone who has been killed. It doesn't matter what nations and what people they belong to. And where did we come from? We've come to the point that it doesn't matter whether there's a commission, the Constitutional Court's decision, but that families can no longer delay this agony. They don't know what's going on with their victims. You don't know anything. That's why I think this was the first unserious activity of the previous Parliament's call that didn't take it, and I want us not to get into a new trap today because, I repeat, the parliamentary commission and I don't know the Council of Ministers is forming when nothing will be determined. Nothing. 4 Second thing. The commission, formed by the Council of Ministers, has changed its mandate. And I'm looking for today as I have so far, although I didn't agree or support the establishment of that commission, an interrogation of people's deaths. For one mother who lost three sons in the war, regardless of what nation she came from, all her tragedies include Jasenovs and silver coins, auschviks and the rest, but no one cares about it. Here I am, Mr. Chairman. So, what I plead, that we accept information from the Council of Ministers and, if possible, to clearly highlight the mandate of the new commission, which would have been formed by the new people, because they had nothing to gain, so they should not be given a new chance, because they could not agree on their rules of procedure, let alone to go, and none of the only persons in Sarajevo found that it had disappeared and in what way it had disappeared. That's the key. I plead, therefore, to accept the Information of the Council of Ministers, that, if a new commission is to be formed, they should try, but with new people and with a clear mandate, and that this parliament is to support them that they have the authority that any competent institution of the RS and the Federation may be ordered by the Ministry of Defence, the police and all where the documentation is located to provide them with the documentation. Secondly, my request will be to conclude that the Constitutional Court of BiH's decision is respected, because the Constitutional Court is required to monitor the implementation of its decisions within a year. When was 2005? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16759	Next up for the discussion Mr. Kadrić, then Križanović. Here you go, then Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16760	I thank you, Chairman. So we have before us one piece of information, a briefer piece of information that is evident from the contents, provided to us by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Therefore, given the importance of this issue, it was correct and was expected to deliver this information to the Council of Ministers, not just the chairman. Therefore, it is a serious observation, given the importance of this information. So this information is pretty short, incomplete, vague and superficial. I'll just give you one detail. On the second page, it says: At a meeting of the Council of Ministers of BiH on 3 August 2006, adopting the Commission's work programme, the BiH Council of Ministers suggested that its primary task was to investigate human victims that were interpreted from part of the Commission's members as not excluding material damage. So, I've got some data, reliable data that's for example. The Council of Ministers adopted the Commission's Work Programme, and the Commission's Work Programme said that the Commission had the power to determine not only human victims but also material damage. Therefore, these are the things that should have been listed and given one broad information on this issue. So, there are still a lot of things that should have been stated in this information and, above all, I will suggest one conclusion in which I propose: to ask for this information to be completed, to return, to the Council of Ministers to meet, to bring, to adopt one complete information on these issues, to remove many of the dilemmas that appear here both in Parliament and in the public and in NGOs, and not to enter into details. My proposal for a conclusion which I will ask to vote on would be about this: 5 It is required of the Council of Ministers of BiH to provide the House of Representatives with information, the information in question, in which a detailed report on the work of the Commission will be presented, with all relevant information for the work of the Commission, such as: The powers of the commission she had, the report on work so far, the full report and the full resources spent on the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16761	Thank you. Please provide all those who have suggestions of conclusions in writing. Dear Ambassador Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16762	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't think we should be spreading the debate today about the need to determine the truth about the loss of Sarajlije, because on the agenda we have this information about the work of the lovely commission that we have received from the Council of Ministers. So this information is one real example actually of how the Council of Ministers refers to the conclusions of this Parliament and how it refers to the committees it only forms, you know. It formed this commission that didn't react at all. It is the Council of Ministers from the previous call, but the institution remained the same and the obligation remained the same. You see, the mandate of this commission, after the decision to form it, ended almost 10 months ago, and we're getting this information today that this commission did not, not even after that deadline, actually do anything useful, and it spent 230,000 marks. And this isn't the only commission. Think of the Commission for determining the state property she spent, and I don't know how much, half a million. There's still a commission here, so I don't want to pick them up now. So, working here, this is a good example of how the Council of Ministers works and how it refers to the conclusions set by this parliament. So that I don't owe, I suggest we don't accept this information. I propose, also in the form of one conclusion, that we express our view in the sense that this House expresses dissatisfaction, or the Council of Ministers, according to the work and results of this Commission's work and that this Parliament undertakes the Council of Ministers to complete this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16763	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Okolić. Here you go. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16764	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected guests, here, this is a problem which is certainly for reconciliation in BiH, pure truths etc. It should be resolved as soon as possible, and it is evident from the Council of Ministers and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, which is less important to me than the content of the information, that this commission has failed to fulfil its obligations. For this reason, I believe that this Parliament should do everything possible and that this truth about the suffering of all these peoples, which are numbered here, comes as soon as possible. I agree with the other participants that this is a very important commission and a very important, important job in our entire business. Also, I agree that this information is also possible and return and add to it and expand some tasks, but let me try to explain to you that there will be something here that this job will extend, stall and prevent the truth from happening as soon as possible, which, I believe, is in all of us's interest. This is not about the loss of a nation, so it can only be in the interest of someone, but it's about the victims, and we all need to be in the interest to get to the truth as soon as possible, because of what I just said. That's why I'm suggesting, since there's nothing more to it than getting to the truth about how a person got killed in the war, and that's the farthest thing from all the injuries that are possible in another form as material, etc., that this home is determined for the following conclusions that I'm now going to make. I suggest that this House adopt the conclusion under 1 today's session. and 2). And they're like this. 1st. The BiH Council of Ministers says that because of the failure to fulfil the obligations imposed, this information, which this commission failed to fulfil, and obligations, has resolved the State Commission for the examination of the truth about the deaths of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej and others in Sarajevo for the period from 1992 to 1995, appointed at the 121st session, held in 15.6.2006, it is required that it form a new commission, with new members, and because it is evident that the commission could not agree, could not respond to the given obligations and that the status quo was with them and that the business did not remove the maltenes from the dead spot. They may have done something, but there's no end result. So, to form a new commission with new members: three Srbin, three Bošnjak, three Hrvat, one of the others, then, of course, with their consent, one OHR representative, one representative of the International Missing Persons Committee, and that would be the Commission's proposal. Why is it a proposal to expand? I think because of the seriousness of the situation, because of the impartiality that we have here and the foreigners who would certainly help in this case if someone was biased not to. To formulate the commission's task is to investigate exclusively human victims in Sarajevo from 1992 to 1995, based on existing documentation from competent institutions, according to the Srebrenica Commission model. This conclusion speaks of the following. That the most important human victims are the most sensitive and therefore this job needs to be precise, so that this commission will do as soon as possible, and the Srebrenica Commission has shown that it has done a good job and why not according to the Commission's model to do so. 7 To oblige the previous commission to hand over all available documentation to the newly formed committee, to continue to use it to avoid duplicating business, what is necessary. ( 2). This now obliges Parliament to oblige all BiH institutions to provide the commission with the necessary assistance and support in all forms. It would be a proposal for my conclusions and I think that the formation of this new commission, the new people there with, with their consent, on this committee, by joining two people or representatives... that this commission could work very quickly and very quickly come to a compromise on the deaths of these peoples that are listed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16765	Thank you. Next honourable MP Bećirović, then Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16766	So, we have a agenda point that is precisely called the BiH Council of Ministers' Information on the work of the Truth Survey Commission on the victims of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej and others in Sarajevo in the period from 1992 to 1995 and according to the decision on the basis of which this commission was formed, its task was to determine how mass and individual crimes were all committed here, and in the area of the city of Sarajevo, as defined, I stress, the Statute of the city of Sarajevo in 1982. I must first say that I have one dilemma about whether it is productive to make commissions for certain parts of BiH, since crimes have taken place throughout BiH and, as we know, in Srebrenica and the most terrible crime of genocide. It might be good to think here and in Parliament today to come up with one solution that we really do a whole project to investigate all crimes on BiH territory, including what happened in Srebrenica, and in the context of having some individual segments, Sarajevo, Srebrenica, etc. to finally reach one truth in the entire BiH territory. I think this information is, under number one, a matter of elemental responsibility. Why do I say that's the first question of elemental responsibility? Because this decision was formed by a decision, i.e. this commission was formed by a Council of Ministers decision on 25 May 2006. The Commission has not submitted a report in accordance with the rules of procedure of the Commission. This commission has spent 230,000 KM from the day of its formation and this commission has failed to fulfil any obligation given to it. So this commission has experienced a fiasco. However, we would not be very fair in the BiH Parliament if we transferred everything to the Commission. This commission didn't fall from the sky. This committee was chosen by someone. For this commission, someone voted and I think those who chose this commission must have at least one part of their responsibility. The question arises as long as some failed commissions, failed estimates, failed choices, 8 as long as all these failed attempts will be paid by citizens, the poor citizens of the country. I would love to have someone here -- from the Council of Ministers, but unfortunately there is no Council of Ministers chairman, no minister -- while this is already on the agenda, to give us one simple answer. Who paid the members of the commission 230,000 KM without these people finishing the job, which is why this commission was formed? Another question, which we have to start asking in this country at some point: will someone return the money, 230,000 KM, from this commission because nothing has been done? So the money approved, the money taken over, and what that commission was supposed to do, it's gone. That's why I'm saying it's a matter of elemental responsibility in this country. I pointed out and warned several times yesterday that in this country we really don't need empty resolutions, declarations, commissions, etc., just to form them, and after that we don't have any results, we really don't need that. After all, it costs the most to the citizens of this country. At this point in the agenda, we realize that 230,000 KM has failed! Somebody took the money, and we don't have any results! Someone said, "The Commission didn't make a deal." It is hardly possible for the Commission to agree when there is no agreement among those who chose the commission. I have to look back here at this part that talks about the Commission's tasks, so it lists what the Commission's tasks were: researching and identifying mass and individual murders from postmortem sites, mass and individual captivitys, camps and prisons, etc. Perhaps it should have been the Commission's task of being one, essentially, before all this. I don't know if that commission is capable of doing that. Let's see why this committee in the first place, why it all happened. It happened because of criminals and fascists in this country. Therefore, as an MP in the House of Representatives, it will be very interesting for me, at the next session of the House of Representatives, when we declare whether we are in favour of the Law on the Prohibition of Fascist Organizations and Symbols in this country or not, with perhaps just one conclusion in the end. I think that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives should finally conclude that the future of any Council of Ministers committee or anyone who forms that commission at the state level should no longer be paid up until people finish their jobs. It's only after the job is done that it's possible to pay off, not to have people take, I repeat, 230,000 marks from the country's taxpayers and then have a situation where there's nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16767	Dear Ambassador Bahtić. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16768	I fully support my colleague Bećirović when the commission says. Last year, commissions paid for 14.5 million. We're going to get a salary bill that regulates that these commissions are no longer being paid. I expect the SDP to support that law when it's here. And when it comes to various resolutions, you know who's ahead! These are all these empty stories, resolutions by colleagues Bećirović and his president, and I would like to tell the public and the citizens, when the work is paid – no one is working here anymore from the president of MP Zlatko Lagumdžija. He left yesterday, he came in an hour or two, he's gone today. 9 You say you hate being paid here. No Niko works less here, and the public service is in the interest of all citizens, why... the man comes here, takes a picture in the hallway for ten minutes, just to make a statement and parade, and nothing works. Now, that's what the NGO needs to say. Who here at least... works? Well, he was only on board twice, an hour and ten minutes on the Commission. That's what to say. I'm about to pay, but conscientious work.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16769	I thank you, but this one camera we had is now gone, so it doesn't fit. Dear Ambassador Jovičić had a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16770	This is the best way to replace the thesis. Please, nice! I agree that money is important and is spent, and that this commission has not established a single missing person. But as long as this country puts money first, there are no people in the first place. Gentlemen, we're talking about the missing today. There's no money and money to compensate for the disappearance of one person, just one man. In the biblija and in the Qur'an - a man's crime was committed against humanity. Don't put the money first here! Will someone make sure those families who have been searching for years find their loved ones? Gospodne Bećirović, your delusions are so dangerous. I ask you, what do you say about the constant word fascism in this recent time? And it is known to whom this applies, and which the court has established, and has pronounced such qualifications as you say all the time. What fascists are you talking about, and who are these people? I know who you're alluding to, you didn't say, so I can't tell you exactly that it's Srbin, but here I'll say, and where do you get the right to put you under that syntagm or word or the worst term you're using one nation or, if you want, one army or one individual or anyone else! So I ask you to intend to use the heavy words and the use of those things, and you will accomplish nothing. You're just causing a new animosity with our people. Not to rephrase to you, but never to get your idea that would be in the interest of this country, because your attitudes – I respect you as a young man, educated and smart – but you will not achieve it, and then you will again push us through the story of a multiethnic party, and you have shown the best example of the ratification of the Agreement with the Serbian Orthodox Church as you are a party. Therefore, don't look at the people Serbian and call them, I read a little among the lines of what you say.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16771	I would like to warn the MPs that we have a agenda point concerning the Commission directly. To be able to finish this session in a certain amount of time today, because tomorrow's session is waiting for us. Please, the discussions that will be beyond the agenda, I will have to interrupt. I warn all MPs that today's session will be over. Now we have replicas. Dear Ambassador Kadrić for Beqirovic. Right? 10
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16772	I will, indeed, be brief for the public and for the people. It is incorrect for people, according to these members of the Commission, to make such unverified claims that these people, members of the Commission, took 230,000 KM, did nothing and left. That really doesn't stand. Members of the Commission, which is why I asked for further information, let them come here, the Commission's leadership, let them say how many members of the Commission have received. I responsibly claim that they have not received so much money for their work, that the information is correct, that... individually every member of the Commission has not received more than 5,000 marks for this work. These funds have been spent a lot on preparatory work, on other material costs, on project development, etc. Therefore, it is not correct to accuse people, not to rule the right information.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16773	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bećirović, a reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16774	The answer to three lines. I must say, in the first part of this replica of Mr. Jovičić, I had no objections. I'm truly sorry these people aren't here. I'm truly sorry it didn't come to the truth, I'm truly sorry that the money was spent, and we haven't come to the truth again. So, in that first part. In this second part, I think, Mr. Jovičić, what you said, what you read and imagined, that I said, etc. - it's so rude that if I tried to explain it to you, if it wasn't so, I'd just get trapped, that maybe there are some elements there. It's so degutant, unmeasured on your part, inappropriately on your part, that it simply doesn't deserve any comment. When it comes to Mr Bahtić's replica, he does not usually know which part of the agenda he once again showed it, but I must say that, most of us, there is a handicap here when it comes to Mr Bahtić, and what a man would sometimes replicate to him, simply, I apologize, but 50% of the man says that you can't understand him at all what he's saying. Mr. Remzija, people didn't take the money, I didn't really talk it through. I hope that, one and the other, we have here the signing of the Chairmanial Council of Ministers Nikola Špirić that we have received this information. I, therefore, did not mention the figures by heart, but in the report that I received from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which I read in detail, I found these figures, believing that if it came from the Council of Ministers and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, that people there were not playing, because they wrote the exact figures we are talking about here. 11 Therefore, it is not, Mr. Remzija, any of my arbitrary figures, but the figures signed here by Mr. Nikola Špirić, chairman of the Council of Ministers. Whether or not they're true, I don't know, but I've made it very precise that it was addressed and written in the Information that came from the Council of Ministers, so there are no misunderstandings about that part. Since Mr. Bahtić has reported for a new replica, he would be fine, before a new replica, to look at what is the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16775	I have another reported Mr. Bahtić for the replica, then for the discussion Bešlagić, Rajilić, Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16776	I have to replicate to a respected bride... bahtić, how he talks, how he talks! I'm telling the truth, the fact and the evidence. Who's in pain, that's his problem, and I always think for myself, unlike him, that works on a remote. I've brought up the facts here who works, who doesn't work, and I'm so not to pay the commission if it's working time, and we'll get a chance to do it through the pay law. I know that my colleagues, in my opinion, will wait for you at the point of your corruption. The greatest crime and corruption has been done during the SDP and those who speak hollow and empty stories here, and the people best know when elections are, the people know who the criminal is, who's corrupt, etc. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16777	Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16778	...in the discussions of my predecessors is a factual reflection, I would say, of the report that was given here. If we argue about how much someone spent, where they ended up 200 and change thousands and, let me just say my vision. The task this commission has received has not been completed. The task and the deadline that this committee was supposed to do is not respected and we, in fact, don't have reports of what we wanted to do today. On the other hand, it was officially formed last year and brought to life the State Missing Institute in BiH. With respect to all the proposals, I have one proposal that this matter remain in the focus of this Parliament, that it be transferred to the task of the state institute for the investigation of the missing, with all these elements and that the State Institute for Missing Persons accept this material, to take this part and get the report. That way, we don't have any more duplications. We give an exact location to those who are nominated for these things and we should expect a result. Because that institute, I say, it's formed, it's started working, they have almost 99% of the documents there, and what the Commission has prepared, I think that would be good. So, respecting all the recommendations, only she would go to the Institute and that way, this part with a deadline as far as we should do could be given to an institution that is therefore competent, without any commissions. I don't want to go in what the 12 Council of Ministers will do if they're happy to give money without results. That, when we consider, let's say, the government's work report, we can speak, and this is a proposal that we seem to be slowly starting to direct our tasks to those institutions, which are in fact why we formed them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16779	Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16780	Since my colleague Bahtić worked hard this second time, so I was able to understand him for the better part now, just to say, when he mentioned his colleague Dr. Zlatko to Lagumdžija, yes, Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija is not a professional MP at Parliament's House of Representatives, and that the effect and effect of the MPs are not only measured by presence, but also by other parameters, which I suggest you look at a small report from the Centre of Civil Initiatives, so you will see little in the Council of Ministers that individual ministers, who were at all sessions in one year, have failed to adopt any law in this House or propose it to Parliament, Mr Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16781	I just want to say that the replicas have been exhausted by both Bećirović and Bahtić, so they can see how they will now. Please let me read you the order they signed up for and let you know who's coming in line. So Rajilić, Izetbegović, Marković, Erić, Raguž, Dokić and Ahmetović. Here you go. rajilić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16782	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the materials for this agenda point have been obtained. I, as my predecessors said, read with special attention and, while I was not an MP in this house, often followed reports on the work of this commission, viewing it as very important for a kind of reconciliation in BiH. However, this commission is working around, here now, almost two years and the report that came here, or the documents that we received about her work, are for me as a man defeating. Given that it was a commission that was to investigate the suffering of all three peoples and others, I expected that at least in that part they would make a better effort to justify their work and to shed light on everything that was happening in the city of Sarajevo, as some say, that part of the city marked by the Statute of the city as the city of Sarajevo in 1982. But that didn't happen. This commission – according to what I read and, of course, as we often know how to say from the information we received from the media – dealt with ourselves. I'll be open, and I'll say, it seems to me they've been working on purpose. They were actually dealing with defining the way they'd possibly be doing the death test. So, is it going to be a scientific research project, is it going to be research, what method is it going to do, how it's going to collect data? 13 I'm not saying this isn't necessary. So we can't go into one serious piece of work unless this is all defined. However, for these people who should have directed the work, it should not have been a priority topic. The priority topic was to move towards the realization and finding of victims, that is, the speeches that people have spoken, in which places they have suffered. The way they were killed may have been talked about, but the report said that as soon as possible, as many people as possible. I understood that in one of its decisions, the Council of Ministers defined it as soon as it was due to deal with this commission, so they came into the situation to deal with material damage. We're all here, first of all, people, and we know that it hurts us more every human life than material damage. The Commission's decision to think for a year, half a year, let's say, two years: whether it's going to deal with human casualties or with material damage, at least it's inconclusive! If they already wanted to do so, and wanted to contribute allegedly to lighting up all possible murders, disappearances, and perhaps even unreported victims, and in fact there were no, they could create subcommittees, create groups, which will also deal with material damage at the same time, and at the same time with human victims. They didn't do it, unfortunately. I'm not going to join the Commission, I'm not going to enter the names and last names, because I honestly tell you, because despite some of the meetings that I've been attending and talking to, I absolutely didn't care about people's names. I'm interested in their results, and there's no results. And worst of all, there are no results for families who expected results. I therefore believe it is necessary to give a recommendation to the Council of Ministers to carry out, slightly speaking, the disbanding of this commission. According to this committee, given that the Council of Ministers has given once the tasks to be done, it has not carried out them, I believe that we here in the assembly should define the conclusion and certain priorities and the proposal of the Commission's obligations. I listened well to Mr. Okolić, who suggested certain conclusions. I think they're acceptable and if they can't be accepted somewhere, we need to sit here, take a certain break and vote on such conclusions that will be acceptable to everyone. I also think it may not be correct to talk about the amount of money spent on these purposes because, first of all, it is something that is a priority, both for families and for people who expect results, but it is also necessary to say that these funds are spent, and that there are no results. Getting into how they spent and the way they spent, it's pretty, it's not right. I mean, let's just say, maybe I shouldn't have used it, but maybe a three or four days ago, I was also thinking that some institutions should also be instructed to check what these funds were spent on. I wouldn't talk about this any further. I think it's broad and we can say a lot, but I think that today, I repeat again, it is necessary to vote certain conclusions, which will be made by the Council of Ministers to create a new commission, with new members and perhaps extended commissions, but which will do the job. That is not why, as Mr Denis Bećirović said, the commission would be abolished, so that a comprehensive review of the BiH crime would be carried out. Of course, I don't mind that either, but I think it would be a waste of extra time to define the task again, whether it would be some kind of commission or department or not, I don't know, some other institution that would be dealing with it. We'd lose another year or two to do it and get that job going. That is why I think it is the fastest and most efficient to change the members of the Commission and move towards the realisation of the programme. Thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16783	Thank you. The following came honorary representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16784	So, when this commission was formed, we suspected that she would be able to do the job she was assigned. And today, four or five years later, we're quite confident. I don't think she's gonna be able to do that. So, if she could not, simply, there are so many interested, unfortunately, who are still in positions not to allow the Commission to finish the job on all sides. I think it's naive to expect some new commission to actually do something about it. Here, when we look at the Palić case, one man who knows where he went, who last saw him, to whom he handed him over, etc. and where the international community and the BiH state came to their feet to determine what happened to the man. So, for one man, there's so much energy and work, they can't determine what these mass graves are about, or what they're about, where we have secondary, tertiary and overterior tombs, where in four or five positions they find the remains of one body, there's still very positioned interested in the powerful who do it, who don't let it get to the truth. I think it was naive and it's still naive to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. What my colleague Bešlagić said, I was going to say. Therefore, I support, this should rely on the Institute, perhaps to create a new institute, that is the most serious problem that has happened in BiH. Such destruction, human suffering, violence, so probably one should create an organization that can finish the job. Maybe an institute that would make all that suffering, first of all, human and rich and material. This building was burned down, we know how it was burned down, the council was burned down, and we know that when and how, the Sarajevo maternity home was burned on purpose. We should also do it where we can rely on the invoices, not on stories, but on facts and where we can rely on facts, and it needs to be documented. Therefore, such a serious problem should be relied on by a serious organisation which would also have a serious budget and which would be available to both SIPA and courts and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Police, etc. and the obligation of their co-operation, to make any difference in the matter. Therefore, I propose that we seriously consider it, it is such an important job that it almost deserves a ministry of one that would deal with it, that the regulations, the law, the budget be passed, that an organisation, which has, indeed, the position that it can do, the Commission is not certain.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16785	Thank you. Next. 15 Thank you. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative, Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16787	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say about this information that it is short, but I think it does include all the facts, i.e. what was expected to learn about the work of the Commission which was formed, as was said here on 25 May 2006. So, from this information it is clear that the Commission has formed, it is clear what tasks it has had to do, it is clear and evident that its work result is zero, so it has done nothing and it is clear that 230 thousand marks have been spent. These four facts are certainly relevant and can define us in our further efforts. So what do we further think we should do as Parliament or possibly draw conclusions that will suggest what the Council of Ministers will do. I would like to say immediately that I am not for those proposals that say that an institute should be formed, or that this topic should be transferred to the Institute, because the Institute is a scientific institution that involves the work of... scientists, while the Commission is expected to do a specific task focusing on one problem, so the victims of Srbin, Bošnjak, Hrvat, Jevrej and others in the city of Sarajevo. Therefore, a specific task to be carried out by the Commission. I'm also against those discussions and... bringing here an opinion that if there's 230,000 marks being spent that it's now some potential reason that no longer needs to form a commission, so the maltenes that should be stopped at this problem and leave it for some future reasonable time. I want to tell you that I am convinced as a man and as a politician that any material damage that has occurred in the past war in BiH is compensateable and we can restore it and... create it again, and every ruined human life is irreparable and never again and no more can be compensated or restored. So I believe that these 230 thousand marks or ten times by 230 thousand marks are not money for which we should sacrifice to come to a practical and realistic reconciliation in BiH and that after the established truth... created reconciliation among the people of BiH we continue in one pacifised co-existence that we all live together and build the future of this country. That's why I support those proposals that are about to be assigned to the Council of Ministers to disband this committee... which has done nothing, and by the way, I want to say that it is an embarrassment to these people who were members of this committee and that they have done nothing, and they have been given confidence, they have been given the means to do nothing, that they have done nothing. I know exactly what the members of the Commission were and it is known exactly what the media wrote about which the members of that commission blocked and obstructed the Commission's work. If we come to a name, I can also talk about it, I will not, of course, now, but it is known in the public what names from that commission have been obstructed and have not allowed certain data to be reached, to the documentation, to all the materials that it would give and, that is, to make it possible for the results to be achieved and the Commission to achieve the objective given to it. So I support those proposals that this commission must be appointed and formed a new commission, in principle appointed, and that it works on principle as was the Commission for the 16th Srebrenica. And that this commission should, in fact, get her to be limited to time, so as determined. It says here in the Information that the previous commission had an obligation to submit a periodic report every three months, and at the end of the 12 months a sumar report on its work. She, unfortunately, didn't do any of the other reports, did nothing. So, that this new commission is expected and asked to do so, it works and, of course, it provides all the necessary resources so that it can do quality and how it is expected to do certain results. I support the creation of other committees that will have as specific a task as this one, if their goal and purpose are to improve quality and make reconciliation and trust among people in BiH bigger and better. So I don't think they're well-intentioned to discuss what they say we don't need commissions, we don't need resolutions. So what do we do then? Then let's stand at the point... where we are now, and not to establish the truth, not to build any future that will be based on truth and true facts. It's a mistake if someone thinks it's only true what he says or that a lie is what the other side says. So our objective and task should be as Parliament and the Council of Ministers that we must create the necessary conditions and... provide for certain means and all necessary... things that are important that this commission which therefore has a task for this information, but also for each other, if the need to complete and do its job and give certain results is indicated. And we also need to be agile and be responsible and look for results, whether it's every three months, every year, but, while at least this Parliament's call is, therefore, to insist on these results and to look for what has been done and what has been achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16788	Dear Ambassador Ahmetović has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16789	Well, colleague Marković said one sentence that is like this, which says that she disagrees with the fact that the Institute is doing it because it is a scientific institution. So the only way to do this is to explore this by any scientific method. I believe that people sitting at the Institute will know what a scientific method this is so that they can explore such a big task. So there's no other way. The opposite of a scientific institute that needs to give its grade is some political story that doesn't have to be true.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16790	Hold on, there's gonna be a lot of it. Dear MP Ajanović and Alajbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16791	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I didn't mean to discuss this point, but my colleague asked me to say, in fact, to replicate it and to say it. 17 The truth is that this report says everything she said. But the most important thing to write in this report is why it was the total failure of the Commission, why it was totally reluctant!? And that's why I think this report should be returned and complemented by the fact that... there are no manipulations from the papers, and this one obstructed or obstructed. If a name and a last name is to be given, it should be shown in the report, so that Parliament as the largest body in BiH could take a position, accept or reject the report. Because that's the essence of this, and this report, so without those facts that you said, that if they weren't put in, they would actually make the report concrete and then we could just discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16792	Dear Ambassador Alajbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16793	...I only have one comment on the previous discussions. This truth about the victims in Sarajevo is no doubt necessary, but I am afraid that it will actually be relative truth, with different omens, which I am not sure will lead to reconciliation, which, as Mrs Marković said, we care about. It's possible that this could be the reason for some new misunderstandings. In fact, the subjective experience of truth is relative, and what's true for me at some point, with all the knowledge that I have at some point, doesn't mean that it's adequate in the same perception and subjective to the truth of another of my other conversaries. So I actually think that this proposal by Mr Bešlagić would be an optimal proposal to resolve this situation, because I think that's the only way we could get to the true, relatively true data, which will be the basis for building the future. So I would like to remind, in fact, that the next item of the agenda is the strategy against juvenile crime in BiH, and I think that, in some ways, through fusion of these two points and risk factors for the juvenile delinquency mentioned in this strategy, we could in some way be able to sort of solve this existing point that we are now discussing in an adequate, concrete, constructive way.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16794	Yeah, that's where we got the act... kicked out of the agenda, but good. Dear Member Marković: reply to the replica. Here you go. I can see that, but the microphone behind you is on, and now it's on.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16795	So what I'm saying is that bad practice in this House is if we have double arches for the same subject and for the same problem. We'll never get to... the facts, the facts that are relevant. I do not, at all, dispute that the Institute can provide relevant information and answer certain questions. But what is expected of the Commission which was formed or by the Commission 18 which will be re-formed is a set of facts that are important and important, whether they are expressed numerically, by name and by last name or otherwise. This set of facts is important for a number of reasons and this set of facts that the Commission can determine to come, and I am convinced that only if it will, can serve the Institute, can serve historians and scientists and all others. If we are starting from the fact that Srebrenica needed this commission... to form to establish the facts that have been established, and for some other regions in BiH do not need it, then I am afraid that there are or are no intentions that are not good to some other victims who are in other areas of BiH, or there is something I would say that wants to adapt, some other victims want to be relativated, and they want to be given less importance to them. For me, every man who has been killed in BiH, whether he is in Srebrenica, that in Sarajevo, that in Bijeljina, in Brcko anywhere, his death is the same and his tragedy is the same. And that's how we're supposed to experience it and watch it. Don't put us in a situation, or this Parliament, that there are first double arches in approach to the same problems, and then that, perhaps, someone is afraid of these facts and those data that the commission will come up with and replicate and discuss as it discusses.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16796	Second Deputy Chairman-in-Office Belkić: Business intervention. What we agreed at the beginning.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16797	Well, it's not common, but look at the report. The Mondat to this commission expired on 25 May 2007. If it wasn't for this SDS initiative, we might not even know, maybe we'd only know from the papers, but officially. And I ask you, therefore, to return the debate to the fact: the term of office has expired, so we are now discussing what is further. The term of office, a year's term of office, no commission, no reports. We're wasting our time, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16798	Thank you. We have now and despite this, I'd say justifiable interventions and a request for three replicas. So, honourable MP Ahmetović, honourable MP Križanović, honourable MP Halilović. I warn you once again that you will not change other people's minds with replicas. We're going to complicate this debate, we're going to be working late, but I'm not going to grant anyone a chance for a replica. Dear Ambassador Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16799	I'll take it for a while. So what colleague Marković is talking about can only be sources of research for those from the Institute. And they can be primary or secondary species. So those who do research will see what kind of things they are, and whether they will be acceptable to come to the truth. It's the only truth that 19 sciences and courts establish. And when it comes to Srebrenica, you can read, there are some more of my statements on the Internet when it comes to this Srebrenica commission. I've never been, in any sense, even welcomed the work of that commission, because I knew that it would mutilate what... happened in Srebrenica and the best truth about Srebrenica was told by the International Court of Justice in The Hague.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16800	Dear Ambassador Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16801	Thank you. In fact, this might not be some replica, perhaps a mild replica of some colleagues, who were out, tried to make a proposal for a solution to get out of this. I'd like to agree again, so we've got one piece of information that we're totally dissatisfied with, which suggests the job isn't finished. One very important job. And we estimate that it's a very important, important thing, the truth about the loss, and that this job needs to be done. Now the question is, how, form, what form is that? I don't think we're supposed to be the ones who're supposed to be nagging and narrowing down, so let's just say, work form. I suppose it would be a good idea to conclude: to commit the Council of Ministers to the one with its... capacity, whether it will form one or 15 commissions, whether it will assign one or two ministries and use all other institutions as well, but to end the work in the next year. I think that's something we could rationally conclude about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16802	Thank you. You had a discussion. You've made two proposals. If you think that's the third conclusion you need to put on, come on, please, and him here. Because we're going to vote on conclusions, not thinking. Dear Ambassador Halilović had a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16803	Thank you. I didn't mean to talk about this, but these discussions almost provoked me, forced me to say a few words about this. I think the truths here are only afraid of those who are responsible... and I think that thing should be kept in mind. The failure of this commission is, I claim, against the citizens of Sarajevo, because there is no reason... that this commission should not have done its job and should not have finished to know. My impression was, let me believe that it was possible that it was wrong, that some circles wanted to around-do the Srebrenica parallel - Sarajevo, to thus show that it was, in fact, we were all the same. Although... here we can fool ourselves and lie and tell stories, but if we're going towards reconciliation, if we're going to go towards tolerance, if we're going to go to multiethnic Bosnia, we have to speak the language of fact. So, I think this commission is a job that has not done: it is directly against 20 citizens of Sarajevo and that it needs this commission, or to form a new commission, with a very precise task of investigating the deaths of people and the loss of material goods. I have not yet heard here in this House that someone is speaking more specifically about the loss of material goods, and let me just remind you of two factories or factories that were in Sarajevo, and now they are elsewhere. Where did the ORAO from Rylovac in Bijeljina or where did FAMOS come from in Wet? This question needs to be asked at the state level. Therefore, it is necessary to form a state commission at the state level, which will investigate people's and goods deaths. And I think only those responsible and guilty should be feared here. And that is why I agree with the discussion that in many places there are still people who are still sitting by their actions, i.e. by doing it during the war, and not by doing it after the war – are making it impossible for these commissions to work. I advocate that commissions be formed, that the truth be established and that the one responsible for it be held accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16804	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić: a second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16805	It seems again, Mr. Chairman, we have replaced the thesis. I repeat, not you, but here in Parliament. Let go, people, the truth! Here's the question of whether or not the truth will ever come out. Although she is one and indivisible and no one has exclusive rights to her, but there are countless thousands, hundreds of thousands, millions of truths here. What I am pleading, if we have listened to, the families are looking for 16, 17, 15 years missing, the fate of these people is not known, I will not bid which number, they do not know the tombs of these people to serve the candle by religious customs, Bošnjak in their own way, of course, Hrvat in their own way give the meaning of these people, to bury them in a dignified manner. It's the key to the whole story. As far as the Institute is concerned, he's only entitled to wear the Institute, it's not a scientific institution, and that's where he forced us to associate an international factor. Two years as an institution was founded, there are no sessions, nor do they know where to sit, nor who makes up the institute. Don't rely on that institute, don't take it at all... because it's not a scientific institution. Next, I suggested here today, but we can have for the next session. I will immediately come out with the project to form a commission that will determine at the level of BiH every village, place and death of every man. But there was no political will to accept it. Guys, I repeat, if we don't clear the history of war, we're going to spin around and create an idyllic atmosphere here that's going well. If you listen to what the people say, I call you all the time, the families put pressure on you! When will the people who died in Sarajevo be found, where are the tombs not known? That's the point. This commission, as much as we blame, as much as... she hasn't established for any face missing his, no mass or individual tomb has been found. You don't know. So that's the point. And what they spent money on, they spent money on renting rooms, on material assets, etc. That's not relevant. Don't compare money to people. We are alive, the greatest heroes from every nation of victims are underground. Are we gonna figure that out? That's the essence I stand for in this 21st Parliament, which is why I have proposed a conclusion, Mr. Chairman. You see how we bring the atmosphere, but this is a more important issue to me for the people and fate and future of the country than the police reform we've been dealing with for three years, and here we have time to reform the police, and we don't have time to deal with the subject. This should be a special session to clarify this, especially, not to let everyone here tell their story from the hills and here we have solved – we formed the Commission, amnesty only ourselves. Do we have the cheeks to look at families looking for their missing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16806	Thank you. There's no need to raise tones at all, or to, I know that emotions can be discussed. Your conclusion to be a special session will be delivered, the House will make its statement. So let's be specific in our discussions and concrete suggestions to finish this agenda point in quality. I think that's our goal today. Dear Ambassador Kadrić had a replica. Right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16807	A brief replica to Mr. Halilović. Indeed, there has been a talk here about the loss of material goods, therefore, this story has been repeated both in the work of this commission and the loss of material goods, material damage and the Council of Ministers has accepted that it be one, one of... one of the responsibilities in the work of those commissions. And another one like this, my general. ... It has to... replica everything. I, indeed, am in favour, would now vote in favour of forming a commission for all municipalities in BiH, in which in the past war, the suffering of all, in all municipalities, and perhaps it should be ours, sometimes to think about it, one general position to form a commission for all municipalities in BiH, to determine the deaths of all Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat, Jevrej and others in the BiH area.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16808	Thank you. We now have discussions in order: Erić, Raguž, Dokić, Lozančić and Todorović. Who's got the replica? Dear Ambassador Novaković: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16809	You see, fellow Kadriću, when it comes to material damage, the first Council of Ministers did not define it in the way you say, but the members of the Commission drew one conclusion, or the decision of the Council of Ministers, that story of material damage. I don't mind if we investigate material damage, I think we should investigate it too, let's form a new commission to deal with material damage investigations! Is that a 22 problem? Here's what we're gonna do for that commission, and we're gonna get a commission to test people's deaths! Let each one do his job. Why burden this commission with a problem that cannot be solved and thus create an impression of obstruction that no one needs! So here I stand, just like you. We'll make a commission to determine the material damage in the Sarajevo area. And please nice, and let people do their job. And we'll build a commission to deal with people's deaths and let them finish their jobs. We will form one and the other, and one and the other will be responsible for this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16810	The problem is you're done with the replicas. You've had two replicas, and you've had a discussion. Please keep an eye on that, I've warned you several times already. Dear Ambassador Erić has a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16811	Dear colleagues, colleagues, esteemed guests, I suggest we return to the agenda point and end this, and all those who have suggestions to deliver them in the next sessions and we will certainly consider them, so as not to spread this story. This is an important question and we've made this point a request. So, people who are looking for their missing, and we're going to meet them. Let's not make a big story out of it. This commission, Mr. Belkić, has already said, has finished its story. So we propose to adopt the conclusions proposed by Mr Okolić, so Jozo Križanović, Remzija and Jovičić have proposed the same requirements on the background. So nothing interferes with this story to adopt these demands and move on. What I would suggest specifically: To assign the Council of Ministers, when appointed by this committee, to be a term of eight months, and to inform Parliament every two months what they have done, as long as they have arrived and what their plan is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16812	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16813	Thank you. So the question here is fundamental: When a job is not done to whom this Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers should have and formed a commission, we have a report that nothing has been done, explicitly signed by the chairman, and the fact that the mandate has ceased – how will this Parliament react? And it turns out most of the debate here went that way so we accept! So people don't do anything, and let's face it! 23 I am not in favour of this message, especially the important question, and I think we really need to concentrate on reaching some conclusions that can withstand the need for this issue, but also the integrity of this institution. And my opinion is this. So, the issue of BiH's death, the most complex and complex and challenging issue, is the question of the future. And we don't need to politicise here, or single out any part of BiH. And I agree with those who believe that the failure of this commission is directly directed against the interests of this city and the citizens of Sarajevo. Indeed, Sarajevo is a paradigm, too, of the deaths in the whole of this war, and I don't think we should give up on getting one truth in Parliament about it, based on the mandate that Parliament gave to the Council of Ministers. And the second question is, what will the Institute do? The Institute should, should strengthen it, need all of this, and budget and people and personnel to deal with the whole problem. But should we now be here for obstructions of the obvious to give up? I don't think we should, we should give an explicit task to the Council of Ministers to file a report in a year, regularly submit a report and inform here on the basis of this first conclusion to determine the truth about people's suffering. And parallelly we'll do some other things. But that would really be one very bad message: people obstructed, they didn't, and we now move the ball to someone else. I don't think that's a good message, that we shouldn't be giving it to me at all, but really giving it a review. If necessary, what Mr Ajanović said, complement the individual impact of each of the members of the Commission, supplement the report, new people and one more precise mandate that will not predend now to cover everything. But give one correct report to the public and to Parliament, which is really the point, and that we are actually here to show that we are willing to accept the truth, no matter how painful it is. And do not make a difference in either one or between any place in BiH, but I think the BiH capital in the way it was affected by the Council of Ministers' and Parliament's decisions should be verified here through a correct report. The proposals for conclusions go in that direction, and I think we should concentrate and end up that way, not giving up on it, and, if necessary, prepare a debate on how to get to the truth in the most optimal way. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we must be aware that this was the greatest cataclysm in recent European history. Two and a half million exiled, several hundred thousand killed, several hundred thousand mutilated, not to mention the material destruction that was... so much so that here's the consequences we'll feel and we'll feel for a long time. How to get to that complete and whole and reasoned truth that will be the basis if not for us those new generations. That's one big question, we can't look at it through just this dimension. But I believe that we must have the strength to return this, that those who were irresponsible, and that we will get a precise report within the next year that the Council of Ministers has the mandate of this Parliament to use its capacities, to come to that. And parallel to developing both the institute and the model that will enable the whole, the whole answer. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16814	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16815	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm really going to try to use the extra words as little as possible,...not just because we've drawn this discussion but also because of the specificity of the problem we're discussing. First of all, I'd like to tell those who are advocates of the State Institute for Missing Persons to do this job, to say it's not his mandate. The mandate of the state-run Missing Institute is to find in all of BiH those who do not know where they were killed. The mandate of this commission, which was formed for Sarajevo, is therefore only for Sarajevo, is to investigate and once present to us all the victims, both known and unknown, that happened in Sarajevo. So these two have nothing to do with each other. I am lined up by several messages that I have heard in the last discussions, and here by representatives of the Croatian people, here are the representatives of the Bosniak people, here on this third side, associated, similar thinking that the circumvention of the truth about the victims in the Sarajevo area is the greatest damage precisely to Sarajevo. As long as we don't know that truth, and every truth, that we understand each other, not every one, but often the truth knows it hurts, but when it does, it's the basis for overcoming what happened and that. Until we get to the truth in our heads there will be prejudice, there will be a variety of doubts, and on these prejudices and doubts we will build our relationships, make assumptions that are then incorrect, each in its own way, and all when you add, to harm, to the detriment of all. So, since I promised to try to use as few words as possible, this commission has obstructed the work given to her by the Council of Ministers. I can tell you that, and as a member of the Council of Ministers who suggested it. They had made one of their reports which was essentially supposed to be a scientific research project, already defined and funds of several million etc., etc. create a job for themselves to create a new institution that needs to be dealt with for years. I had that material in my hands, and it was rejected. I'm not saying it's not supposed to be done either, but it's a completely different story than how we started here and... what we wanted. I therefore join those proposals which suggest that the Council of Ministers negatively assess the Commission's work so far which has no mandate. That a new commission should be formed urgently with only one mandate, which is to prepare an examination of human casualties in the Sarajevo area and give it a deadline. If it's a year or less, I don't want to go in, I think it's reasonable for a year to do the job. Here I join those thoughts, and I will support it if tomorrow we raise the question and the loss of material goods, but it's the job of another commission and the methods of research and the way to reach these truths that are absolutely different. So it can be a special subject and we won't, we won't go around it, but let's get this job done. I'm not making any specific suggestions for conclusions. I think this discussion, too, is largely contained in the suggestions of Mr. Okolić's conclusions. It seems to me, if I have now read these conclusions, and many others, here are Slavko Jovičić and who else are very similar. And it is my suggestion that the proposings in a break try to reach as few conclusions as possible that we will plead. Thank you very much. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16816	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Todorović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16817	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Raguž took a lot of my discussion, and I totally agree with her. I think we're all in agreement here that we need to get to the truth. And that's irrefutable. Advocating the formation of some institutes, etc., I think it would take us a long way, and there are a lot of scientific workers sitting here. So, from the hypothesis it takes at least three or four years to come up with some scientific serious scientific work. We have experience with already one segment within BiH as the commission has done the job. I don't think there's any reason for this committee to be resolved, and for the whole new people to be brought in, and that's what many debaters have said. The Commission has also expired its mandate so that nothing this parliament will do new, but what it has already been required to do. The Commission needs to be given clear tasks and, in the end, I think it would be good to have a number of quality conclusions to get close to these conclusions by the SDS to accept them and that they are closest to some reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16818	Thank you. I don't have any more reports. Dear Ambassador Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16819	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I thought I was not taking part in the debate on this issue, but the debate so far has asked me to say a few things. First of all, I don't think it's a good idea for us to go over the fact that someone spent 230 KM on taxpayers' funds without being able to file a report on what he did. I don't want to believe they didn't do anything, and I support getting information about what they did and what caused their failure. This question is, no doubt, a sensitive question and this question is in any case a lot of obstructions, a lot of politicizing and others. I'm a game case familiar with what the Institute is doing and they're quite spontaneously collecting data on the injured, missing and documentation on it. They also have major obstructions in their work. Personally, I think that this task that the Commission has had is far better done by the official institutions of this country, and above all, the SIPA that deals with these issues and who certainly already has data on this. I mean, whatever committee we form, it won't end up doing what it's tasked with, if that commission is being obstructed by the official investigative authorities, because for those bodies in very many cases these commissions are paraorgans, etc. 26 I have participated in such a commission and would not believe all the obstructions of this commission come from various initiatives and from various bodies and institutions etc. So, after this, I think we should request in the first phase what kind of official report, official information from the existing official judicial authorities of this country. I claim that they have information and they have mechanisms to investigate and come up with information that would be of great benefit to us and that would be a basis for work, possibly, a new commission, if we agree that such a commission should... be formed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16820	The word has been respected by the president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16821	Thank you. Just a few short sentences. I think a good discussion has been conducted on such an important subject and it would be good to end the discussion with certain conclusions and guidelines on how to proceed. In 2004, the Parliamentary Assembly held its plenary session, held on 23 January, on the discussion of the 2004 priority implementation programme of the European Commission report on the feasibility of negotiations between BiH and the EU on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement – what we are talking about these days and what is very likely to sign – in the conclusions under point 4 that, in the context of meeting the existing conditions and international obligations, the Full Co-operation with the International War Crimes Tribunal, is being added, established, supported and co-operated with the Commission for Truth on the Death of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej and others in Sarajevo in the period of '92. '95. So, we've given it to ourselves as Parliament to do, we said it should be our obligation. At that time, it was the commitment of the last term of Parliament. I think that there should be a commitment and this calls for Parliament, following the conclusions that the MPs said the Commission's mandate had been completed, that the Commission had been disbanded, that it had not done its job, that the commitment of this Parliament in this regard would also be determined. As for the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, at its meeting on 8.8.2006, was then chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Terzić, said that... the state commission, its suggestion, its primary task: the examination of human casualties, warned the Commission of what should be its priority, as the current chairman of the Council of Ministers said that its primary task of research should be human casualties. So, we have Parliament's commitment to continuity – and lastly, it should be this too – we have the commitment and Council of Ministers in the previous meeting and the Chair of the Council of Ministers in this call in what way and where should be the priority of the Commission's work. And we can only conclude afterwards: To be in charge of the Council of Ministers to make a new decision by 1 May 2008 at the latest on the establishment of a Commission to examine 27 truths about the death of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej and others in Sarajevo in the period of '92. '95. in accordance with the recommendation of the number and that, adopted in the 126th session of the Council of Ministers, held on 3.8.2006, which I read to you. And finally, I want to say as chairman and ask you to accept my suggestion, given that, despite this, there are at least 30 other conclusions, that the commitment of this Parliament is to be made to our Human Rights Commission which will deliver to Parliament at the next session on the basis of what we have discussed together, means with discussions and these conclusions of a certain conclusion that Parliament will accept. I think that would be a solution – that we would not now put 60 conclusions to the vote and that each conclusion is determined individually – that we sit calm and cold heads in that commission where there is one and the other home, where there can be no revote in that commission, make...... certain conclusions that this parliament will accept. Thank you. Since there are no more reports, the honourable MP Novaković, the clarification. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16822	Me, me, if I understand you correctly, and you tell me whether or not I did. So, you're suggesting that we vote today on your conclusion, and that all other conclusions go to our committee? Is that a suggestion?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16823	We don't have to vote, we can agree to do that. And we can vote if you insist.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16824	Okay, okay, I want to explain what the proposal is. So, all other proposals go to the Commission, the Commission will draw some conclusions from that which we would then draw at the next session of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16825	That's right, that's right. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 10th item of the agenda: 28 Ad. Ten. Report on the protection of personal data in BiH and on the work of the 2007 Data Protection Commission You have received a report from this point, as well as the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission on this report. The Commission forwarded the report to the procedure and to the House’s statement. I'm opening a debate. If there are no reports, I'll conclude the hearing. We're moving on to... Dear Ambassador Nanić. I'm sorry, I didn't see.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16827	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members, I have been considering this report, and I thought it important that we encourage some things here. We can certainly say that the report is complete, complete and really shows real insight. What I want, so through my discussion here, is to trouble me, is to find out. In fact, I can't even see through this report anywhere, since the Commission has received certain powers from the Council of Ministers to do jobs until the establishment of an agency that is legally envisaged, I don't see whether this agency has been formed, whether a decision has been taken to form! It states here that the Council of Ministers should have formed by 1.4 this year, has it been formed, has the law been implemented, implemented, and has the agency started working? Also, it is not indicated here that the Commission has provided for the adoption of two sub-legislative acts... which actually open up the possibility that the Commission will work at all and that the Agency will start to work. However, there is no indication whether the procedure is also complete and whether those acts have been adopted by the Council of Ministers. Also, certain activities that the Commission has done in BiH have been established here, as well as requests that it has addressed on the protection of personal data. However, here also the next thing that is said to be from, again, the Central Recording and Data Exchange Act does not see whether a centre has been formed and it is determined that by then it has not been formed and confused yet...determined data here, confused around the date. It's written about the 2007 report, some dates don't add up here, it's been mentioned in 2007 as if it was this year, it's actually probably here in 2006, etc. From this end – there are still many of these activities, I would not want to bother Parliament much – it is true that the Law on Data Protection in BiH, which was adopted in 2006, as I have seen here, has not been implemented, the Agency is not formed, people are not responsible for this, no sublegal acts have been adopted, and given the life in which we live and the time that is coming, I appreciate that this is one very, very important activity and very important this obligation and BiH according to the conditions and approximation of the EU and the acceptance of the obligations of international ones, so I appreciate that it can be observed that no work has been done here by the Council of Ministers, what they should have done, and in this sense I would like to appeal that these things end. But there's no telling who 29 is, so this discussion would be directed primarily means that it initiates the need to adopt these acts, possibly conclusions, but I didn't formulate them. I really thought, I just meant to trouble the Council of Ministers, so, having the need to indicate these things that are here in the Report, with the conclusion that the report gives a really quality review of the work of the Commission itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16828	Thank you. If you have a proposal to leave this agenda point to when this rapporteur or rapporteur comes, I don't mind, but we need to start by agreeing on the opening of that agenda point. However, we have opened this debate, the honourable MP Novaković has now appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16829	I'll also be very brief. Namely, two findings in this report have asked me to report. The first finding that the Commission in its work, given the Council of Ministers' obligation to form an agency, worked by not entering larger projects waiting for the establishment of the agency. I think that finding as much as it makes sense doesn't make sense. In fact, the Commission had to and should have done its job, not waiting for an agency to be formed and, if the agency is formed, it is perfectly normal for the Commission to submit data, information, therefore, documents and everything else that it has come to the agency, for the continuity of work in this area. The second finding, which is here, is also disputed, is: it is not a disputed finding, but what we have done to make it not so, is the fact that... three complaints have been brought to the Commission, and the Commission itself realizes that it is not about the situation being fine but that people are not informed enough. And logically, if we had such a finding, then the Commission proposed and developed a programme of citizens getting acquainted with the work of this committee, because I think it is a very important work of this commission. Since there is no one here today, or if we leave it or not, at a time when it is, but I would suggest that one conclusion: That the Commission commits itself to design a series of activities, with the aim of meeting citizens on this issue, and that the Council of Ministers financially and organisationally support the Commission...in resolving this issue. I'll make that conclusion and deliver, deliver... Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16830	Thank you. Dear MP, what, replica, comment? Here you are, Reverend Nanić. A comment. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16831	Just one word. Here, Mr. Novaković, if you have read, the Commission further notes: that there is no material resources to open the website. I mean, these are really, this shows the Council of Ministers' relationship to the agencies, to the institutions to be opened.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16832	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16833	Thank you. I've been listening to these discussions and I have a proposal one. This is a very important matter, and today there is no one from the Council of Ministers who would be here to defend this report. Unfortunately, I must say that... on the Constitutional Legal Commission, which was considering this material, neither was anyone. It may have been declassified in some way, but I suggest that we postpone the statement on this material, restore the whole procedure, invite people from the Commission to come and explain some things to us. I think that would be best, not some material that requires urgency, and on the other hand, it's important that we adopt it just like that without having someone to defend it. There, that was it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16834	We can only do business to get the material back to the Commission, and that should be your conclusion. We'll vote on it and another thing. No further reports, closing the hearing. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda: Ad. 12. Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals in 2007 On 20 February, the Office for the Review of Appeals submitted a report on the 2007 work, the Commission responsible for Finance and the budget submitted its report on the Office's work report on 14 March 2008. As you have seen, the Commission has accepted the report on work and the House for adoption suggests a conclusion, which reads: The Council of Ministers of BiH is asked to draw up a new draft law on public procurement of BiH within 90 days, to improve public procurement procedures and bring it into line with the text of the EU Directive, and then deliver it into parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Erić. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16836	We discussed this report on the Commission. I just want to explain: I voted against the Commission, and the reason is this. This commission has done its part of the job and has considered nearly 1,000 complaints. What made me say: why do we have 1,000 complaints? That's one thing. They had technical problems in previous discussions, human problems and solved. So, as far as the Commission's head is concerned with the director, they've done a lot of work and certainly should be commended in that part. The problem, however, is whether they can consider the quality of 1,000 complaints, which are really serious complaints, and why are there so many complaints? So that's what we need to ask ourselves, and we need to ask ourselves the Council of Ministers and all the institutions that are responsible for it. And the consequences are catastrophic. So, I was talking about tenders, and most of the complaints are about tenders. Here, we have our building that they work and equip with Italian furniture and I hope we'll be comfortable in Italian furniture. And she couldn't get any factories, "The Horse" goes down, a lot of the workers, we get taxes from them, and we get salaries from them. Now, all these consequences and all the people who have complained – so, definitely their complaints have been rejected and they have no conditions to exist – whether we will continue to do so is really asking the next question. I'd like to draw attention, but we've already suggested that we enter the emergency procedure of the Public Procurement Act. But it's a waste of our law, if we keep doing it like this. That's why I had a real reason not to be tending to these people from the Commission. They did the lion's work, but surely they couldn't do it well, and that's why my definition was against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16837	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16838	Well, I'll just take it out for a while. So, his colleague already said Erić, the Finance Commission and the budget unanimously accepted the report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals. You know that last year, as it was here, there were a lot of complaints, complaints. I think now they thank each and every praise, even if they... did, they transferred, right, so many complaints, about 1500, they solved it more, and there's still so much left. And the Commission's request, it does not say here, is that the Board of Appeals shall make a plan and dynamics by 1 April and inform itself, meaning the plan and dynamics of the work of the rest of these cases. You know, that we know when you're planning to finish... and we've reached this conclusion, means that the Council of Ministers is going with a proposal for a public procurement law within 90 days, is that where the underlying problem lies? In my opinion, someone doesn't do their job well as soon as they have this many complaints. That's it, thank you. So, I propose to Parliament to adopt a report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals for 2007. 32 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16839	Thank you. If there's no more reports, I see you're on the phone. I welcome you to the session yesterday and today. But I'm afraid after that, the debate will open, and we need to close this session. I won't deny you the opportunity to contact me, but if it's not an emergency, I would ask you to, because it's short. I'm afraid it'll be problematic. If you really don't have a need. Thank you, thank you, we are closing the debate on item 12 of the agenda. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. Proposal for a resolution on liability On 16 February, the SNSD club submitted a motion for a resolution on responsibility to the procedure. At the 22nd session of the House, the proposed resolution was previously discussed in the competent commission. The Constitutional Commission is responsible for delivering its Opinion on the Proposal for a Resolution on 14 March 2008. The Commission did not support the text of the motion for a resolution. I am obliged to remind you that we will apply the 149th member of the Rules of Procedure and that, in accordance with this and the discussions will take place. I'm opening a debate. I'm giving my first word to the promoter in front of the SNSD Club. Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16841	Gentlemen, the chairman, distinguished colleagues, we have spoken much about this document in the past period, and both in the competent authorities and in the public, and I think it is more or less known here. Our motive for submitting such a document in the parliamentary procedure is to relax in BiH a situation that has arisen over the past period. A period of heavy accusations, a period of mutual denial, a period during which views were publicly expressed, put into action by political parties, parliamentary parties in which both the Dayton Peace Agreement and the BiH Constitution are denied and much more. We felt that this document with nothing new, in which there is nothing spectacular, in which there was no intention at all to put all the problems in BiH on paper and present, but what SNSD thinks would be important at this time for a relaxing situation in BiH. A document in which we have said that the Dayton Peace Agreement is at this moment some kind of sacred book, in which we have said that the Republika Srpska is an indisputable state-run entity in BiH, a document in which we have expressed our clear commitment to European, Euro-Atlantic integration, a document in which we have clearly shown that we are preserving the existing constitutional arrangement, not to talk about anarchy, not to talk in 33 environments of mutual accusation, so that we recognise and accept the order, and that we are at the same time defined for its change, for constitutional changes ahead, which we can only discuss if we recognise each other and respect each other. We have also made clear the position of both RS and BiH in the next period, both on European integration and on constitutional changes, which is clearly and loudly written. Our intention was to send a clear message to the citizens of all BiH that there is no political party in this parliament that denies the existing constitutional arrangement, that it will be forgotten in some way and out of... public use to throw out the difficult words that speak of entity denial, at this point of course I mean RS. That it will stop the request for its abolition, because it is a Dayton category, and that in this way it will relax the situation and stop all the other things that have been subject to heavy accusations before the upcoming constitutional changes and the upcoming important talks and all that we need to do in the phase of signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, especially after the signing of the agreement. So this is one call to reason, this is one call to relax the situation, this is one call to all of us in this House to sort of admit something that is and not to just run away from reality, which we are all, I hope, convinced that it is reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16842	Thank you. I will read and report: Honorable MEP Izetbegović, Bećirović, Džaferović, Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16843	We all swore here, when we took an oath, that we would fully abide by the Dayton Agreement. Annex IV to the Constitution is part of what we swore. That BiH is composed of two entities and part of that agreement, and we gave our word to that, right. Therefore, I do not know who questioned the Dayton Agreement, the state legal status of the RS, etc. Maybe it's in public, I don't know if it was here in this house. I think the motion for a SNSD resolution and that it is, as they say, on the background of what was previously concluded in the RS Assembly, is it. If some actions are continued in relation to RS positions, if this, if so, then this assembly will review this state-level status and decide on some future steps, and in the meantime this thing will examine the position here, and the atmosphere in this home. And I think that's what I'm talking about. So, the RS is only in the name exclusively Serbian, it is according to its constitutional position a multiethnic community of equal peoples, citizens. And what we are fighting for and what we will surely continue to fight for is that it becomes truly a substance in the future of the community of 34 equal peoples and citizens. And she's not, and if we happen to be stopped by Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement, shocked by the murder of 102 returnees on the doorstep of the house, we have the right to fight it, we have the right to demand that aneks vi be carried out. We have the right to seek, ultimately, and in the name of participating, because we are equal citizens, Bošnjak and Hrvat in the RS, and... normally legally by looking for it. What she has offered, what SNSD has offered, I welcome. It is one responsible approach, but it is from your corner, whether, as a strong political force, which represents a good, good part of BiH citizens, sees priorities, problems and how it sees its way out. In this home, there are eight SNSD MPs, and we are 42, and I think we need to rewrite it, work it out, to be some common point of view, attitude, and, possibly, really come up with a declaration or a resolution of responsibility that would fit one general spirit. Let's agree on some things and let's say -- here's the thing, we really think this is how it is, and we see that in the future, this is the way it is. I think the declaration, the motion for a resolution on responsibility, that in some elements it is contrary to the Constitution of BiH, to the Mostar Declaration, with the freshest decisions of the PIC and that it must be corrected in those elements. I wrote something down here, so I'll read it that... I don't miss a part of it. So, I think we need to do this together... update, fix and do it so, eventually, then go out together and adopt it at this home. Therefore, indent 1) Peambule states that BiH was created by a Peace Agreement, which is contrary to Article I of the Constitution of BiH, which is called Continuity. And it clearly defines that the Republic of BiH continues its legal existence, but is not created, it continues its legal existence and continuity. In line 2) Preambula talks about police reform for BiH level based on the Mostar Declaration. The Mostar Declaration does not reduce reform only to BiH level but states that, I quote: The overall reform aims to create a functional, multiethnic and professional police based on three principles of the European Commission that will guarantee the safety of all citizens and goods throughout BiH. In indent 3) Preambles are assessed as necessary to BiH, I quote: For BiH, obtaining EU membership candidate status as well as a higher degree of NATO membership. The final goals of BiH are joining the EU and NATO membership, a lot of membership, and should be called on, not to some phases that BiH should go through on the way to this final goal. Then, Article 1. The declarations contain an arbitrary claim that the General Framework Agreement established BiH as a complex state consisting of two entities, the Federation of BiH and RS, which definitely confirmed RS status as a state-owned entity. BiH has not created entities, the BiH Constitution does not mention their sovereignty, nor does BiH define itself as a complex state. The Dayton Agreement speaks of the continuity of the BiH state and amends its internal structure consisting of two entities, but also of the Brcko District, in line with aneks ii of Article 5 of this Agreement. The BiH Constitution clearly concludes that the constituent peoples and citizens are BiH's constituents, not its entities and the District. 35 In Article 5. dekleracija is about a tragic war in BiH. I think we should avoid... the mention of war because, if war is mentioned, then it must inevitably be said that aggression has been committed, that genocide has been committed in part of its territory, and then we will fall into a story that will be difficult to come out of, otherwise we would define it. This article also advocates the termination of the institution of the High Representative, which in these current political circumstances is obviously unacceptable and is contrary to the PIC's latest decisions. In Article 7. Declarations require the adoption of the BiH Constitution. Before signing in Paris, the Dayton Agreement was supported by the RBiH Assembly, which we inherited and which gave consent to the RSBiH delegation to sign the agreement. The problem of implementing the Dayton Agreement is not Annex IV, or the Constitution of BiH, because the annex is being implemented. Based on this annex, life is organized, we live on it, based on this annex, among other things, in five calls for today's elected and this state parliament. But Annex VII has not been implemented and Annex IX to the Dayton Agreement has not been implemented. And this problem was eventually to be declared. And I suggest we put together a joint committee to finish and correct the text and adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16844	Thank you. Please, I mentioned the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which define that amendments to the Proposal for a Resolution can, or declaration, be submitted until the end of this debate, so I expect these amendments to be obtained in writing. And now the replica had a distinguished MP, Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16845	Mr. Chairman, the replica refers to the final part of what Mr. Izetbegović said, then I will take the opportunity to say some more things about this resolution. You know very well that often, here in this House, the question of not implementing Annex IX of the Dayton Peace Agreement is mentioned, Evo, I will say that this part of the annex has not been implemented and I call even, if you will, here Parliament to make today's decision to implement Annex IX of the Dayton Peace Agreement. And I'm telling you why Annex IX of the Dayton Peace Agreement hasn't been implemented. He predicts, as you know, the establishment of corporations that are the common body of two entities. Of these corporations was established, one was established, which works as much as it does, and that's the Railway Corporation. The other corporation, which was established on paper, is the Roads Corporation; the signatories of the 2000 agreement are Mr. Bičakčić and Mr. Milorad Dodik with me, and Dragan Čović as deputy prime minister, Džonson, Ralf Džonson, on behalf of the OHR. That corporation never came to life. So it was formed in 2000 and it never came to life because of an obstruction from Sarajevo. The two ministers, if you will, will name names and last names, I was on the side of Banja Luka, there were a series of attempts to establish this corporation 36 whose headquarters was defined, it was supposed to be in Banja Luka, it was supposed to be in a space provided, it was a rescheduled space, a Swiss firm donated equipment to the headquarters of that corporation, etc. The corporation did not live because the federal minister of communication and transport, and so far there were two, did not want to call the board of directors, and were appointed to the decision to form a corporation to be chairman of the board of directors, to adopt acts and to start to work. The director's office has been appointed, so we understand each other. In those years, commitment and the international community, and I have to say a large number of political parties based in Sarajevo, have been unwritten to give up Annex IX and to create institutions that are on the state level. In this context, instead of forming a communications corporation, a state communications agency was formed and... other agencies, here, there was also a postal transport agency, the Railway Traffic Agency was formed, so the preorientation was unwritten, agreed, because there was, there was an unwritten agreement that Dejton needed as much derrogation as possible. I'm responsible for that because I've participated in the debates and the story that it's a delusion that can cost us. Now, in that context,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16846	Was it a replica or was it a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16847	I want a discussion now, can I talk to you later?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16848	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16849	Okay. I'll take it. It's all democratic.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16850	Let's take it in a row. It means Bećirović, Džaferović, Novaković, Suljkanović, Ajanović, Raguž and Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16851	I must remind myself that we are all MPs in the House of Representatives at the beginning of the mandate, the first thing we have done, we have sworn to honor the BiH Constitution. I am surprised, therefore, that a resolution has been offered that has in some parts unconstitutional formulations. What's unconstitutional about this resolution? The view (1), among other things, states that BiH was established on 14 December '95. the year, that is, November 21st, '95. years in Dayton. I want to make it very clear that it's an unconstitutional 37 formulation. And that the formulation is contrary to the BiH Constitution with Article I of the 1st position on the continuity of the BiH state. In accordance with the BiH Constitution, it is very clear, so also '95. in the year that the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose official name from now on is "Bosnia and Herzegovina", I particularly stress this, continues its legal existence under international law as a state with an internal structure modified by this Constitution, and with existing internationally recognised borders. And then, in particular, I point out that it remains a Member State of the United Nations. So that's what it says in Article I of the BiH Constitution, and it needs to be distinguished. So BiH doesn't become '95. UN member already in his Constitution in '95. says he remains a member of the United Nations. Also, the formulation of the 'complex state' of BiH as a complex state is an unconstitutional formulation. You can't find the term 'complex state' anywhere in the BiH Constitution. Even more so among many lawyers are very different opinions on this, from those who think it is complex, to those who say BiH is a simple state, which was once decentralised to 109 municipalities, is today decentralised to two entities, etc. So there are opinions and lawyers quite perverse, and we should not judge today, but we should stick to those formulations that exist in the BiH Constitution. The term'state-of-state entity' is also an unconstitutional formulation. You can't find the term'state-building entity' anywhere in the BiH Constitution. I volunteered to discuss exactly in accordance with Article 149. The Rules of Procedure of Parliament's House of Representatives and I remind you that I have delivered eight amendments to this resolution. I propose, therefore, that all these amendments be given in writing, that the position (1) of this resolution be completely deleted, and that the text which reads: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives clearly emphasises that BiH is an internationally recognised state whose sovereignty and territorial integrity rests on the applicable international acts and the UN Charter, which has also confirmed the Dayton Peace Agreement. I propose that the position (2) of the proposed resolution be deleted and a new position should be added: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives indicates the fact that BiH entities under the Dayton Peace Agreement do not have the right to secession from BiH. In this connection, the House of Representatives calls on all political factors as well as authorities in the country to contribute by their political action to stabilising opportunities and speeding up BiH's accession to full EU membership. Before the position (3) of this resolution, I propose a new position (2), which would read as follows: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives calls on entities in BiH not to adopt any resolutions or other acts in those areas for which they do not have constitutional jurisdiction and which have no legal effect in the future. Since the resolution is called the "Responsibility Resolution," I think this would make a lot of sense. Amendment IV stav (4) becomes a position (5) and the last sentence in the position (4) is deleted. 38 Amendment V Stav (5) shall become a position (6), and the last sentence of the position (5) shall be deleted. The attitude (6) becomes attitude (7), and the words 'without conditioning and imposing a solution to anyone or anyone else' are deleted. Amendment vi stav (7) becomes a position (8) and the words 'now in force as Annex IV of the Dayton Peace Agreement' are deleted. Amendment vi stav (8) becomes a position (9), and the word 'until its membership' is added to a part of the text that reads 'NATO Alliance'. One mistake was made here: this ally and it shouldn't be here. So I think that this resolution, which is now in question, would be a good thing to change in these provisions that I have proposed through these eight amendments as a contribution to this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16852	Thank you. The following has been registered for the debate by the esteemed representative, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16853	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I think we're discussing a very important matter and, as such or as such, the Constitutional Commission, which is on two occasions before taking the position it had, discussed this document submitted by the SNSD Club. What I think is not good is that the events in the region are trying to locate some things here in BiH, including in the state parliament, because this resolution came after what happened with Kosovo, as well as some other resolutions that we have, and I call on all of us in BiH to do so, so for Kosovo, we do not tighten relations within BiH, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, not to undermine the international position of BiH. We have our own way, we're responsible for the future of this country, and I suggest we move on, by leading this country the way we're supposed to run it. I'm afraid this resolution came at such a time and we need to do everything possible to ensure that these resolutions are not being disturbed within us in BiH. It would be best if the motionor would withdraw this resolution but even if it had not been submitted at all to Parliament and the next one we're going to talk about here that is still trying to provoke some things but here, when it is submitted, then let me say a few things. 39 The resolution, for the reasons my predecessors spoke of, particularly Mr Izetbegović and Mr Bećirović, I apologize,... for these reasons it cannot simply be accepted in this text, because it contains numerous and legal and factual inaccuracies and it is not possible to fix it with amendments. I'm and we've been thinking about how to get some text based on this text, which you fix with the amendments simply... it's not possible, then it would be a whole new resolution. I will not repeat the reasons they spoke of... about which Mr Izetbegović and Bećirović spoke. There are simply legal and factual inaccuracies that, when written in the right way, deny this resolution. It starts by saying that given the need to preserve stability and define the conditions that BiH functions uninterruptedly as a common state created by the Peace Agreement. Well, I mean, when you start from there and compare, I apologize, the Constitution of BiH and its member I, you'll see that it's not true, that we don't go into history. Only a member of the existing BiH Constitution! How do you get out of this situation? I think that all of us sitting here in the BiH Parliament are normal people and that we are absolutely clear that the Dayton Peace Agreement must be respected and, in this direction, there is no dilemma, but with all that the Dayton Peace Agreement means. The Dayton Peace Agreement is not just Aneks iv.e. The Dayton Peace Agreement is 11 annexes of the Dayton Peace Agreement. The Dayton Peace Agreement is also an entity's obligation to comply with its constitutions within six months of the entry into force of Dejton. So they didn't do it, so he did the Constitutional Court for them, so only after the Constitutional Court's decision did they implement it in their own constitutions. So, the Dayton Peace Agreement is also a decision of the Constitutional Court on the constitution of the people, popularly called, it is several decisions of the Constitutional Court. And the Dayton Peace Accords are international conventions, above all, the European Convention on Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms, which, I think, when interpreted as Dejton, have a complement to all domestic legislation, including the Dayton Peace Agreement itself. It is therefore the Dayton Peace Agreement and I think that we in BiH are committed to respecting and implementing the Dayton Peace Agreement. The Dayton Peace Agreement, and that is the thing I particularly want to stress here, does not put into the same plane, what is trying to say and very often is heard by RS politicians, does not put into the same level of sovereignty and territorial integrity of this country as the values that are once again confirmed in Dayton with requirements, legitimate demands for amending the Dayton Peace Agreement. There is no story in BiH about the sovereignty and territorial integrity of this country! It's a value that no one can hurt, and you can't talk about it. How we are going to live within BiH, are we going to change Dejton or Annex IV of the Dayton Peace Agreement, the Constitution, is prescribed here in this Constitution. Because it says it can change itself, so it says that sovereignty and territorial integrity cannot be attacked and it says that it can be changed, the Constitution of BiH, and that BiH will look in the future, as prescribed by the Constitution. And the way is two-thirds, the majority in this house, and the right majority in the House of the People. And that should be our key commitment. I belong to a group of politicians who, without any reservation, supported amendments to the April 2006 Constitution, when the internal structure of BiH was not at all treated, aware, therefore aware, of everything that it means and aware of what I'm talking about today. And that should be our relationship. And to say it requires a change in BiH's internal structure, which is why I will threaten the sovereignty and territorial integrity of BiH, it cannot. These aren't the things that were brought into the same plane by 40 Dejton. Here's Dejton, so read it. And that's the key problem. No Niko here, I think, exists in this parliament and in this country who thinks it is possible to change the country's internal structure, except in the way it is prescribed by this Constitution, which means that everyone in BiH will agree. We can agree or disagree, but that's the way it says it here and it has to be respected because it is. The second thing I want to say about this resolution is that BiH has no other path than the road, we also talked about yesterday, EU membership and other than the road to NATO membership. And if we'd like to discuss this resolution, which cannot, it must be rejected if it's in a text like this. But if we wanted to... get out of this situation, because of this resolution, then we would send these two messages. And these are, therefore, messages that are perfectly logical, perfectly normal, several hundred laws in this country, according to which daily life takes place, based on the existing Constitution. I agree with him or disagree, advocate for his change or disagree, but it is a life that is normable based on what is written here in this Constitution. That's why I think if we have to do anything, then it's to say that we're committed to respecting and implementing the Dayton Peace Agreement, with everything that it means. So it's 11 annexes, it's the Constitutional Court's decision, it's, it's international legal acts, with everything that means respect and enforcement. A major problem is the obstruction of the Dayton Peace Agreement and its non-implementation. The second thing, that this Constitution, as part of an international agreement, can be changed in the way it says it here in this Constitution, and it's not a question at all. And the third thing, that we are committed to this European path and membership in the EU and NATO integration. It's the only possible way out of this situation. If someone thinks it's possible otherwise, I'd like to hear it, but if we want to see things realistically, to approach this question responsibly, then there's no other answer, in my opinion, than the one I was talking about. To enter the resolution now, to make formulations – so be careful, I mean, the whole science is written about what is a Federation and what is a confederate, what is a complex state, and what is a simple state – and what is simply a single sentence of what is, who is a state and who is not a state, is simply put on paper here, and now we have to declare ourselves here in Parliament. It's too serious to be approached in this way. That's it, thank you. And finally, I don't think it would be a bad idea to think about what the president of my club was saying, that maybe, here, to define these few conclusions, hire the College, the club presidents. So this resolution cannot be accepted in the text as offered. I don't think we should have her here in Parliament, not to send a message,...here we are, so that we understand colleagues from the SNSD, that we don't sharpen relations in BiH, but that, perhaps, we make a few of these conclusions that are not controversial, which are everyday life, we function accordingly. I'm not running away and I wouldn't be against it. Of course, that should include... College certainly, club presidents and work on it. 41 So much, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16854	Dear Representative Drago Kalabić applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16855	Here, I didn't answer right away, I listened to a few speakers, and I am obliged and obliged to replicate some things that don't stand. You see, in this resolution we are calling and saying that maybe the time has come for BiH to think about going to the international community and we think, if nothing else, we all agree that if not today, one day should and must, it would be the turn for this country to go to the international community. At this point, there are political forces that advocate the stay of the international community, OHR institutions, high representative for their reasons. And you see, this high representative, as well as the interpreter of the Dayton Peace Agreement, now says there is a need, that there is a need in the Parliamentary Assembly to, in some ways, recognise RS. Some should think and why it's the top interpreter Dejton, the high representative of the international community, why he says it in this... here's to leave our reasons. He probably needed to send such a message that he needed to do so. I don't want to be an interpreter of his motives, but the fact is that the High Representative did and sent such a message at this very moment. The second thing, I said it wasn't our intention to define our problems in BiH in this resolution, not to deny others to define them, not to slow them down. Not denying what isn't defined that it can't be defined and that it shouldn't be. Here, colleague Dokić spoke and called, so let's put on what's controversial, what relaxes the situation, what relaxes the situation! We know... what the position of the document called the resolution is. It's our intention to come up with a situation like this, and it could somehow go through the amendment phase. What Mr Bećirović did, I think it would be serious if the SDP stood up and, in response to our resolution, offered the SDP resolution because, according to the legal nomenclature and the way we make the act, everyone knows that what crosses a certain level of change is a new act. So that's the new resolution, the resolution to the resolution, there's so many changes. But what I noticed about Denis and the SDP is the problem of writing ten pages but not mentioning the RS. All the changes can, all the amendments, everything can, but look at every way you don't mention it, that's the problem, that's the ugly message. If we're talking about Dejton, then it's impossible to avoid RS as it is, and not mention it and not write it. We don't need a message like that. We said it here. I didn't deliberately discuss it, and I didn't mention it, we all know what the messages were, and what clear political requirements were, what were the programmes of politically important, large political parties about the abolition, the disappearance of RS, and I don't know, about everything else. I think it is an important message and the need to open an internal dialogue, because we have bitter experiences from the past, and there have been states with a constitution uncircumcised, sovereign, so because of the internal dialogue, this constitution has not been maintained. We had, we have, in one part, clearly called on how conflicts should be resolved in the region, on which principles, this is important for BiH, at least we think it is important for BiH to resolve these conflicts on the principles of the UN Charter, and because of its 42 internal relations, BiH should say that, for her, it is important. We have called on such a thing, because we believe it is in the interest of all BiH citizens, and not to call on, look out, it is certainly for legal debates that in this Parliamentary Assembly, the Constitution of BiH is not confirmed as an integral part of the Dayton Peace Agreement. And now we have, we have one situation, which maybe someone is calling for, we have it confirmed, it seems to me that UN Resolution, we have it signed on the Dayton Peace Agreement, but we don't have it here. Do we allow someone else to do so for themselves, instead of us, and to be again... no matter what kind of a break-up or some new UN resolution or some new place, whether we call it that there and somewhere else decides about BiH this way, because we don't want it to be here, it was what it was like, to confirm it here, and to do it with the laws imposed by the High Representative, so we say, that we would change them, that we would change them. First we adopt them here, we accept them, and then we go to their changes. And here, I'll finish by asking you to think about the outcome of this, because the outcome and the debate and the vote in this resolution, in a way, sends a message to the RS, sends a certain message. What she'll be, we'll see in the end, at the end of the debate, and at the end of the plea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16856	Who's the replica? Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Is it a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16857	I need to rephrase three things. The first issue is the departure of the international community. I must say it is not the international community but the BiH authorities. When this is a sustainable and functional state, which no one will threaten its sovereignty and territorial integrity, it will probably not be a problem for the international community to leave BiH easily. However, as long as we have such threats, it is obvious that there will be an international community in BiH and that BiH will not be on track to join the EU. If that were the case, I would not want to make my assessments here arbitraryly, but I would call on some relevant documents, and it is relevant, for example, the last Declaration, or the Governing Board of the Peace Implementation Council of 27 February this year, so here is not even a month. The Declaration, among other things, states that there are still significant essential problems that led to the recent outbreak of the crisis. There has been an attempt to progressively weaken the institutions and legitimacy of the state, tensions have rekindled between political actors, etc. So it's all in the Management Board Declaration. But this is particularly worrying, and it warns all of us to a higher degree of seriousness and responsibility, which is the next grade in this declaration. The Steering Board of the Peace Implementation Council expresses deep concern about official calls for secession. The Peace Implementation Council's Steering Board strongly stresses that no entity has the right to secession from BiH under the Dayton Peace Agreement. So, it's an evaluation, an official evaluation, of the Peace Implementation Council Management Board. 43 It is true that I did not mention in my amendments the RS, but it is true that I did not mention the Federation of BiH, but that I specifically referred to the provisions of the BiH Constitution and the final conclusions of the Peace Implementation Council Steering Board. Therefore, it is certainly that after this we should send one message, I invite all of us together to try to further mobilise this message to be a message of stability, a message of respect for the BiH Constitution, a message of respect for the Dayton Peace Agreement and to break up with the policy of causing artificial crises and best to turn to BiH and its problems, and in no way be we in the service of resolving certain issues in the region for which we are neither competent...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16858	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16859	or which objectively we can solve.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16860	We have the following registered in order: Novaković, Suljkanović, Raguž, Dokić, Križanović. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16861	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, esteemed guests, you see, cannot speak of this declaration without speaking before that of the purpose of this declaration. I read this declaration in the media, and it was either that or the proposing's intention to check the will of political parties in BiH, and above all partners in power about two key positions of this resolution, which is attitude (1) and attitude (3) of this resolution. The goal has been proclaimed several times before in the SNSD's views, in a way that if no one asks the question of the existence of RS, then no one will even ask BiH a question. As for me and the SDS, we think, we had some dilemmas when it came to this declaration. Namely, our dilemma is: Should this parliament confirm the existence of RS if the Dayton Peace Agreement is founded by RS as part of BiH? And should it possibly be against this declaration to affirm or formulate the position that... this is a Dayton Agreement defined by the RS, but Parliament, the only time it was on an institution, did not support it. We think it was risky and we think it was unnecessary. And that's one of the reasons why I was on the Commission. Of course, restrained, letting the partners in power agree on what the objective of this resolution is. I said it by leaving it to SNSD to see who's not a partner in power and essential. Of course I have to say that I was surprised by the media's attitude towards this attitude I had. First of all, to the media in RS. And yet, first of all, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Public TV Service. Namely, this resolution was defined as a resolution on the sustainability of the RS, and my abstention was defined as 44 as abstention towards the sustainability of RS. You see, if Article 1 and has defined the sustainability of the RS, part of the declaration, then it is part of the declaration and Article 3 that speaks of the unimpaired foundations of BiH's existence, sovereignty, political independence, etc. etc. So this one could also be called the Declaration on BiH's sovereignty, as could also be called the Declaration on Sustainableness of the RS. I hope that the media, as they so airyly commented on that attitude, will comment on this one, and use these names as well. Or, at all, it doesn't matter how the media, some media, define some attitudes. Of course, it's crazy, commenting and binding it into various combinations to degrade someone's work or someone's attitude. But well, this parliament didn't deserve to... I moan here on the media and the way they treat certain information, events, etc. I'll go Vratić to the very declaration. So, the SDS supports all the views of this declaration that my colleagues disputed. So, we support the position (1) of the declaration, the position (2) of the declaration, the amended position (3) of the declaration, did we propose an amendment to ensure that, in its position (3), the uncut fundamental principles were erased by this unscathed fundamental and remains the principle of BiH's existence are its sovereignty, political independence. Why did we suggest that? You see, dear colleagues, in the Constitution of BiH in Preambula, it reads: Determined for sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of BiH in accordance with international law. So nowhere does it say that it is a fundamental principle, but the signatories are committed to it. And we're committed and today, we're committed to the Dayton Agreement, which is undeniable, that commitment. But it doesn't say anywhere, is it said here in accordance with international law, part of international law or legal order, and the UN charters that define, among other things, and the right to self-determination that I'm not going to talk about today, I don't want to take this story in this direction. I want to say that I discuss it the way my colleague Džaferović discussed, when he said: that it is something that must not be touched. So, I think this is something that's defined by the Dayton Agreement and, by sticking to the Dayton Agreement, we support it. By destroying the Dayton Agreement, all variants are open. I'm not talking about who was obstructing the Dayton Agreement. We could have this whole session talking, so we could elaborate on why some annexes aren't respected, who is, when and where. I guess, depending on how anyone had an interest in certain stages of the Dayton Agreement, he was obstructed. Well, among other things, we didn't support him at the outset when he was adopted, and now we're heartily supporting him, and we're not giving him up for a living. So, there have been some evolutions in attitudes, so here I'm saying, and in this part who's obstructed and who hasn't obstructed. Also, we think we should be honest all the way in this whole story. No one here has spoken of the departure of the international community. The departure of the international community is obviously something that will not happen for long. There were talks here in the resolution on the termination of the institution or the authority of the High Representative. So the international community will stay here longer than we think it will stay. They're not so bad here, they're leaving. So, they will stay here, and for our sake, they will stay and for themselves until we join the EU, but here is obviously a proposal in a different way, which is also defined by individual views of the Peace Implementation Council, or at some of the previous Council meetings on Peace Implementation. 45 We will still be restrained in this session today when it comes to this resolution. We will leave it to the parties, which make up the parliamentary majority, to agree, because that was finally the goal of this resolution. To look themselves straight in the eye and say how they can go on and how we can all go on with them. They have been given the term of office in the last elections, and we believe that they should do so accordingly. So we don't want to bother anyone with the realization and this goal, but also with everything that's been said here. And in the end, just one remark, although there are no colleagues from Izetbegović, I apologize to my colleague. In fact, a colleague often quoted Annex IV to the Constitution of BiH in his discussion, and then in one case he did not. And it's not in the war case. And the Constitution defined, or the Dayton Agreement, that it was defined as a tragic conflict, and he didn't define it that way. So if we talk about consistency in applying the Dayton Agreement, then we need to talk about it in each member. And I'm gonna talk about consistency in every member and every annex. And that's why I'm here to make a deal if we can, and we can't, and the character of this war, but obviously we can't. We just saw that there were some things we couldn't agree on, so it's probably the hardest thing we could come up with. And finally, it would be good if, indeed, after all these discussions, the presidents of the parliamentary majority parties met and tried to find a way out of the situation they have now entered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16862	Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16863	This discussion of Mr. Novaković, I would therefore ask all my colleagues to try to find a way out of this situation in their discussions, and not, as it is said in our people, to cook here. I think that in Mr. Novaković's discussion, for those who have therefore fully understood it, there are a lot of elements to try, as it is said in the daily jargon, to cook. It doesn't work out for anyone, nobody benefits from cooking, and I, when I had my own discussion, tried to be maximumly dependent on what BiH is working on today and interpreting it in the way I think we should interpret it. And that's why I think it would be good, because this is too serious a situation for us to act like this. That's one thing. Secondly, now the answer to Mr. Novaković. We can also enter international law, Mr. Novaković, which speaks, among other things, of the right to self-determination, but then we will have to enter, Mr. Novaković, into something that I did not give in my speech here, about the way what is called for self-determination arises, so you will have to answer a lot of questions about how it arises, and not to open that topic anymore. Because if I open it, then we'll go far. So that's one thing. And another thing, every nation in this country and every citizen in this country is entitled to every inch of this country. And who will then be self-determined and secededed from when every nation and 46 BiH has a modified internal structure. It consists of two entities and Brcko District according to aneks ii point 5 and arbitration decisions for the Brcko District. But the peoples in BiH are equal on every inch and they have equal rights to every inch of this country, regardless of inter-entity, district and any internal lines. Then who will separate from whom, Mr. Novaković, and who will self-determin from whom? And that's the point. The sovereignty and territorial integrity of this country is a value that is unquestionable and we can only look to each other for solutions for the future with one dialogue. We won't achieve anything if we go that way, as you say, contesting for example. Well, there's nothing that suits you that we attack in the resolution, and it suits you all that we don't attack. It's not a responsible relationship, Mr. Novaković, according to this situation. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16864	Correction of an incorrect allegation. The Honorable President, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16865	I was only, frankly, asking for a reason only to address myself in one minute, and I could ask for a correction of the incorrect quote on the discussion, starting with Mr. Novaković's discussion, calling the RS government service and asking for the editorial policy of the house to be regulated according to the requirements of the SDS. On the other hand, we've heard a lot of things here, and we've heard the Dayton Peace Accords a lot. I never had it in my hand. And I believe most of you didn't have one. And if we're going to look for a common way out of this situation, and about every word in this declaration we can make a big, professional and academic debate, then let's agree to do what we have to do. And it is our obligation under the Paris Agreement that BiH delivers a translation into three official languages of the Dayton Peace Agreement. It is the obligation of Paris to say afterwards: it is an official translation of the Dayton Peace Agreement. It was done by Serbia, it was done by Croatia, BiH did not respect its obligation. Let's let this parliament ask the presidency to have BiH fulfil its obligation. Let's ask the Presidency to ratify this agreement under the Law on ratification of international agreements, because it is an international agreement. And let's make this Parliamentary Assembly agree to ratify this agreement and I believe the SNSD will withdraw this declaration. Can we agree on this in this Parliamentary Assembly? Let's find a common denominator for this BiH. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16866	Replica, distinguished representative Selim Bešlagić. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16867	When I first entered this parliament, and when Mr Ivanić was elected foreign minister, I asked a parliamentary question: Has the Dayton Agreement been ratified here and when will it be ratified and the reasons are given? And, therefore, the question I asked means the first time I entered this parliament, then the answer was avoided and we do not have the answer to this question yet. If we had ratified him, there would be no debate here. But we have a condition that is given here and... exactly what BiH is, which are entities, which is what it consists of, and we are now discussing whether we should confirm it again. I'm in favour of just respecting the Dayton Agreement. And the end. What? Done. In which entities are mentioned, which mentions all these powers, and where they stand, the powers of entities, what states, and how entities can agree to transfer things to the state level. It's all right. Let's respect him, and you'll see we'll be happy. And the problem is that the whole story is in all of this that at certain times, to whom it suits, he raises a question, and we just need to respect the Dayton Agreement. And I repeat once again, here's one more time I don't know which time, please let's not bring things in if we've left out the use of the Dayton Agreement to get the entities to agree on what they're transferring to the state level. Here we will easily adopt this law, every agreement we will... but unfortunately, we do not, or they do not, and when I made one proposal, so in 2002, when I made a proposal to form the Ministry of Agriculture, I gave the task, or asked the Council of Ministers to initiate this issue of agreement, you know what kind of answer I got, says, you did not meet all the conditions for submitting that request, because you did not get the consent of the two entities. So are we in charge of this or is the Council of Ministers in charge, if that's a good idea. So I respected that part, and that's why I'd like to say, let's respect the Dayton Agreement. Declaration, we accept the Dayton Agreement and I'm finishing this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16868	It's just one annex. We scheduled a meeting with the Election Commission at 1:00 a.m. to try to find a way out of the amendments submitted to the Electoral Law. I suggest – people there are waiting, well, we can agree – it means that in half two we take a break, no matter how this discussion takes us. But we already have three replicas and six debates! So we won't be able to finish at half past two and maybe someone will stop at their hearing or the replica. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I understand that, but I can't take away the possibility that 10 minutes, as much as it says in the Rules of Procedure. Please, then by half past 2:00, we'll take a break at 1:00; we'll continue at 2:00 with replicas that won't give up on the replicas, and whoever wants the discussions. 48 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16871	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, in the name of the Party for BiH Club, I would like to say that we cannot and will not support this resolution. There's a lot of reason, and I'm going to say two majors. First, we think that this resolution is unnecessary because the mention of sovereignty, territorial integrity, internal arrangement because of the fact that these are clearly defined in '92, '95, in a much stronger and more authentic way. The second observation is that this resolution is selective, it deals only with individual issues of Annex IV of the Dayton Agreement, while ignoring and ignoring the issues of Annex VII that treat the issue of return, then the IX corporations at the state level, the X issue of OHR, etc. There's more reason. A good part of them has been presented in discussions of previous debates, and so, by contributing to this appeal by the chairman, I have outlined in very short lines the reasons that the Party for BiH Club has led to define itself as we have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16872	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16873	Please, in accordance with the SNSD's definition and our request earlier to act on this resolution, meaning with its views, we accept one of the proposals that in the next period one body will try to bring things into line with this resolution, meaning that the other speakers have in mind that we will try in some period that is created by this conclusion to bring our views into line and that we will probably not say this today, that all speakers have it in mind. Here, on the trail of that possible conclusion and possible deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16874	Thank you. That's helpful. Dear Ambassador Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16875	I thank you, Mr. President. Here I will try, I hope that I have used the time rationally so far, followed your recommendation, and now, after Mr Kalabić as club head, in some ways presented the willingness here to conduct a dialogue and a reasoned debate on issues raised on the resolution and in some ways to further consider this issue in Parliament. I think it's a way out of this situation and I'm going to further shorten this debate. But since this is an important issue, since we also see the public very sensitized and interested in both party positions and for the way this is going to continue, I would like to introduce you to the following positions that are part of the programme's 1990 HDZ. So it's a matter of responsibility! The resolution bears the title of the Resolution on Responsibility. Not about Dejton, not about any other questions, so that's the resolution on responsibility. I personally believe and we can support that it is time for this Parliament to express its responsibility on the most important issues for this country and I think it should be a method for us to continue this work. This issue of responsibility is no longer to be tested only by declarations but by what is contained in the work of this Parliament and what are the priorities, and one of them is today, or tomorrow, and while we see here that even those who vote against some laws, today stand here as the highest priority possible. So, the European way, I think the greatest responsibility of this Parliament is our relationship to meet our obligations and sign this agreement. It's a practical question of responsibility. Secondly, the question of responsibility isn't that we're making a dogma out of Dejton, gentlemen. I may be a little bit too open here, but I think we all need to accept that we respect Dejton and that as legalists we are fulfilling everything the Dayton Peace Accords contained. But today, 13 years since the signing, paraphrasing and signing of Dejton, if we want to approach responsibility, we need to see what he has brought good, and he has brought good, but where his limitations are and what would be responsible for this Parliament to do to remove these restrictions. 50 E, that would be the story of responsibility. And if you want to talk about that responsibility, gentlemen, then I must say that it is not enough to say that every man and every nation is constitutive on every part of BiH, as we have heard here, but to support the practical constitutional and legislative dimensions of that equality. Unfortunately, I'm not finding responsibility here for anyone, but for all of us, we have to realize that we're far, far from it, and that a lot of work is waiting for us, if we want to get into that position. It would be responsible to say that it is not a European solution that, in a country of three peoples, which is very rare, I think that there is almost no mention here at all in the debates, three constituent peoples and all its citizens, with a constitutional structure modified in Dayton through two entities, we see, not even after Peter's decision on constitutionality, we have failed to find this balance between individual and collective, or national and between the position of all three collectiveities in the same way. So, for the Hrvat, it is from the position of the party and the voters who supported this party not to object to us now that we claim to speak in the name of the entire people, which stands as a legitimate dimension, means it is acceptable to treat Dejton as a crucial historical act, which has stopped the war in BiH and has opened assumptions of peace and reintegration of BiH. But now it is time for the europeanization of Dejton and, if many compromises have been made then, which are objectively and unprincipled to achieve these high and sacred tasks of peace, today is not the time for unprincipled compromises. Today is the time to see if we can provide within this framework a functional, modern, European BiH, which will be accepted by all three peoples and by all its citizens. We think it's the Annex IV formula. This cannot be ensured without significant change, this legitimate question and the question of responsibility would be to ask it in this document, without contesting any right, any request or entity. Well, that's the whole approach, then. In this whole approach, we can't go to two pages and like this ad hoc and, I'm glad there's a suggestion that here maybe all the clubs determine by the representative that... we try to come up with a statement that would contain all these elements and that would really show that we can handle ourselves responsibly, and there's no particular situation, or there's no ad hoc interpretation, but we're really dealing with it seriously, that we respect ourselves, that we don't respect ourselves, but that we don't push our head into the sand, that means. Let's not put our heads in the sand! Today, against federalization, all those most consummated by the federal, and a highly unfavourable asymmetric concept, bordering on the confederal. Here, these are these serious questions for responsibility to this country and to all its peoples, and I support that we work together on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16876	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16877	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 51 If we were to live in a happier country, if I didn't use another unhappier word, then this resolution on the responsibility that we are now discussing would be the same thing as proving that 2 more than 2 is equal to 4. These things that are here, they're meant to be. And in mathematical terms, they're axioms. And anyone who knows the basics of mathematics knows well that axioms do not prove themselves but that they are the initial claims based on which the theorems are built. But given the state we are, it makes sense to discuss this. In this context as we are, I can tell you that I am often in a position to be ashamed of the qualifications that are expressed here by someone else, so I want to remind you. Less than a month or about a month ago, here in this same hall, within the 10th interparliamentary meeting of parliamentarians Brussels and BiH, one of the Brussels parliamentarians said the following conclusion: So what do you want, you are no state! I'm telling you that I'm ashamed of that finding, but some of the others who swear more are left unresponsive to that finding. Unfortunately, we provide such high-ranking officials, who come to us from Europe, with arguments to determine what they have established, from who runs this country, etc. And so we're looking for it, so we're looking for someone else to do our job. And what Mr. Izetbegović said, starting his discussion, here's what I'm going to do. Gentlemen, we had a minister yesterday and who knows how many ministers, and not to say that we have taken an oath in which he explicitly says we swear to honor the Constitution of BiH and the Dayton-Paris Framework Agreement. But we don't do it, we swear and forget what we swore. This declaration was caused not only by various claims but also by attempts, I will now be explicit, to abolish the RS, and the leader of one of the major parties here has declared it several times, and the leader of the other party, about the same, said in the context of constitutional changes: They are saying that they will abolish RS, and we do it day by day. That's why this declaration came. And it is not at all controversial what Mr. Džaferović has disputed. A question of territorial integrity that, and I say, is not being asked. But, Mr. Džaferović, at point 3 here explicitly says, what you were looking for, the unimpaired dark principles of BiH's existence are its sovereignty, political independence, in line with international legal and territorial integrity, with the inviolability of internationally recognised borders. So this isn't controversial. No statement is disputed. I can accept the fact that perhaps the language is not fully defined and that there is open space to define the language something, to be more explicit, in full compliance with the Constitution and the Dayton Peace Agreement, because these are, again, axioms that we have no right to even prove that we understand each other. And in that context, here's my suggestion. Let us see these concrete suggestions where the text can be corrected in this context, so that it is acceptable for everyone, if we have already come into this situation to accept it. And since I've already taken my word, here in the context of the discussion, it's not a replica, but one small answer to my esteemed friend who discussed it before me. The issue of federalisation of BiH is a fictional issue. BiH is a federal state. It writes to you in, it doesn't say in the Constitution, but well, it doesn't have to be, just a little bit to tell you, all of this, what Mr. Raguž was talking about, I totally understand, but that at all, those achievements won't challenge any position in this declaration. Gentlemen, within the framework of the Dayton Peace Agreement, the Washington Agreement is also an integral part of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Are you aware of the 52 facts of how many things there are in the Washington Agreement that aren't even considered here, and can be very indicative, here in the next period? An integral part of the Washington Agreement is dear friends, and a preliminary agreement on the establishment of a confederation between the Federation of BiH and Croatia, which was signed by Izetbegović and Tuđman, which so far has not been annulled, which means it is valid. And I'm not going to ask you any questions right now, because there are too many open questions in this country, what can that mean and what rights someone else can call it? As part of the Washington Agreement, there is room for some problem issues within the Federation to be resolved, respecting the Dayton Peace Accords, and hence to address many legitimately open issues that come from the Croatian side. All of this document will not disable it. He is, once again, an axiom which, in some other circumstances, should not be debated, because it is not proven but, when so, give him a language form to be acceptable to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16878	Time, time, please! We're not gonna make it through this session. Time, please! Watch your time! Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16879	Thank you, Chairman. Here I will indeed seek to give my impression very briefly of this resolution, not repeating what has been said so far, with the fact that, in principle, I am saying that I agree with my colleagues and colleagues who have troubled certain formulations of this resolution, especially those relating to the formulation of the BiH state and its constitution and the Constitution in general and the Dayton Agreement as a whole. You see, we're only going to discuss today within a month here's the last month of the four resolutions that we have on the agenda of this house. If we continue like this, the number of resolutions will be threatened by the number of laws that we make in this House. And yet, he made me happy, say, the title of this resolution that speaks of responsibility. However, when I read the contents and the message of this resolution, then I saw that the very title did not match the content. I expected and believe that this was the good intention of the promoter, that it wanted to come up with a serious resolution on the responsibility of all the state authorities in BiH, all the authorities in BiH, to reach a political agreement, in which to find forms of getting out of this swamp and mud in which BiH is. However, for a serious preparation of such a resolution and for the honest implementation of it, it seems to me, a different preparation, and this preparation in terms of certain proposals that are already being prepared here... amounts to this being returned to a certain group of Members who will reform this and give it the right meaning. In my opinion, for the honesty of this resolution, it was necessary to make a prior agreement between the representatives of the political parties, who have unanimously adopted such a resolution and, more importantly, to implement it. 53 I will not spread this story, but I would like to point out, indeed, that it is high time for resolutions not to test inter-party relations in this house, but rather I appeal to the most responsible people in Parliament, to the parliamentary majority, that it is high time we turned to the issues that life means in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16880	Dear Ambassador Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16881	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I'll say a few principles first. So, I respect the full legitimate right of every representative, every club, every political party, to propose to the parliamentary procedure of the document that is intended to be proposed, so in this sense I am also experiencing the motion for a resolution sent to the SNSD Club in the parliamentary procedure. I'm not going to, at all, have to say, discuss the content of the resolution, because then I would probably violate this first principle to challenge the legitimacy of the proponent to think what he has right, what he wants to think about a certain question, but here's the right to extend the rights of others and us to think about certain questions that could be confirmed here, or not to confirm. In a certain way, since by this next point, I think they have touch points, I'm not going to discuss it, but they have touch points, so I'm going to mention it like this, even though I'm not going to say maybe. We could bring one resolution to recognise the existence of the BiH Constitution and again say that we will respect it. We could, we could make another resolution, and take this sentence from the preamble: if we were committed to peace, right... to tolerance and reconciliation. No one could argue... but the question of how honest we are in those resolutions! So, in those expressions... what we say here. We should say that we will promote general prosperity, economic development through protection,...promotion of the market economy. I don't think that would be too bad. And now, I could read this constitution from the first to the last sentence, if we wanted to, once again confirm... the resolution. I have to say... not wanting to check at all what the reasons were and what the objectives of this resolution or some other resolutions were, and nobody's gonna get me wrong, I kind of quickly remembered one scene from the early '90s that you all probably are, because there was a lot of twisting on television, seeing, the beginning of the mess, so to speak, I don't know what I would call otherwise, I'm not going to irritate anyone, in Slovenia. I remember a soldier... who came from BiH by accident and asked him what this is, what's going on? And he says, "Well, that's who they'd be if they were to split off, and we'd be who if we didn't give them something like that." It's all something that's going on here. Maybe someone, maybe someone thought they wanted to shut down the RS. And maybe now someone thinks someone really thinks that. But now we're going to prove to someone, etc. Now we could in countless circles... spin what anybody thought, what anyone was afraid of, or if he was scared at all, or if there's a need to see... something to confirm, I don't know either. 54 I think this proposal or the proposals that went in the direction that it is really good if we want to act as Parliament's Assembly, or as Parliament's House of Representatives, to start doing our joint resolution on responsibility. I think a few colleagues have already spoken on this subject, to say, to express our particular responsibility against this state, to its institutions and to all its peoples and citizens, means, but to really express this and to what our Rules of Procedure says, what resolutions are, so I will quote, because we often forget, that: The House of Resolution expresses its position on relevant political issues, social problems, there is no resolution on social problems, and the needs and determines the policy guidelines that the Presidency, the Council of Ministers or other BiH institutions will implement. There are no guidelines here, I must say, none of these resolutions, but it doesn't have to be, so it doesn't have to be, the resolution can express its position on some important political issue. I've been invited by this thought of resolutions to come up with an idea, although I have to say that here, I will say, so I think this is too high, but it seems more appropriate for this hall here to bring a resolution on the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of BiH. Now, if we were to go to confirm and make a resolution like this, it could be concluded that I think it's questionable. As could be concluded here, let me put it this way, when my SNSD friends are proposing a resolution that they want to confirm RS, that they think she's questionable, so they want to empower her here. So we could look at it that way. I, too, will read as one working, working material, which I will add if we conclude that we are making a joint resolution, which would say about this: BiH is a sovereign, independent and decentralised state of the equal peoples of Bošnjak, Hrvat, Srbin and all citizens living in it. I'm not questioning it, but I want to confirm it one more time. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly reaffirms the full sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of BiH. I'm not questioning, but let's confirm one more time. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly rejects any effort and other steps aimed at questioning the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of BiH. The Parliamentary Assembly confirms BiH's adherence to the principle of non-interference in other countries' internal affairs and vigorously rejects any attempt to interfere with BiH's internal affairs. Finally, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly calls on all BiH authorities to act in accordance with this resolution. All of this in one way or another, in one way or another, is already written in the Constitution and the laws of this country, but here, if we have already entered the stage to confirm what is unquestionable, here I am joining and making my humble contribution to confirm this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16882	Thank you. They say that soldier was from Doboy. Dear Ambassador Hadži Jovan Mitrović. Here you go. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16883	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a Declaration of Responsibility, and in the agenda we have a resolution on responsibility. And what I would like to say about this resolution is this. When I got it and read it, I really don't mind what it's written here, but I asked myself a question. The moment that parliaments in the agenda have a lot of resolutions, declarations, conclusions, recommendations say something about Parliament's work, something says something is wrong, either in the previous period in which we functioned, so we should stop something today. As far as I'm concerned, this is the kind of document I can support. But I can also say that this document will bring nothing, nor will it fix what we have and what we have. I would agree with this document, if here at this session tomorrow we decided to respect the Constitution of BiH, the constitution that was adopted in Dayton, and if we had respected it, it would probably not have come to this, and there would be no discussion of such as some of my predecessors said: some will, some would, or someone would want to secede. According to this Dejton and the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution, behind which the countries that are the signatories of this Dayton Agreement are behind, there is no abolition of the entities, and there is simply no secession, what I could see in all of this and often warned my colleagues about, because for me it is not even questionable for the party from which I come, the Democratic People's Union, that this Constitution that was adopted in Dayton is the Constitution that guarantees all of us life here and that only we can change it, and that we can often say, and we can also see today some things that happen that someone is talking about the referendum, we notice that we are losing jurisdiction in the entity and we want with the declarations to stop it. X times we have broken BiH's constitution, some are responding. I know who it suits, and that's how it's gonna work, and there's only one thing left, and that's tomorrow, the police who's cutting into the BiH Constitution and I can't figure out that when we're carrying something, we're doing something, we're always calling the Constitution Article IV point 4 so, it says, under a) or sube. Nowhere here says anything can be transferred, it doesn't say there's a law that's in the jurisdiction of someone else or a lower level, it's only about the need to implement the Presidency's decisions, etc. It's a good thing the president of the SNSD Club said it shouldn't be declared today. I think the ruling set should sit down and agree, once it's gotten into something like this, to agree to correct the way the ruling structure fits. It doesn't matter how it fits in the field. I wish she wasn't in public. Something you try to agree to, at least you're satisfied, the opposition doesn't have to be satisfied. I say personally I don't mind changing things. They're going to change and they're going to change, but I'm against all those who swear by the Constitution, they swore here, at the entity level, they swore to the constitutions when they come to positions, and those same constitutions break and then they grab their heads: how to come back tomorrow and explain to someone what happened. So if you put it to a vote, I'll support it, I'm not sure we're going to make it right, but this one, as the club president said, is that you simply agree and that 56 of you stand behind everything that this opposition has agreed, what the task is, it's going to say, if it can affect in a positive sense, it'll affect, if it can't, it'll go on its own course, and we'll see where we've arrived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16884	Thank you. Reverend... he's not here. Lijanović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16885	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, as the chairman warned, we spend a lot of time today, probably for irrelevant things, and that binds each other, because time is money. I would just like to remind you briefly: Programme objectives, January 3, 2007, the establishment of a parliamentary majority, paragraph (3): to adopt constitutional solutions that will establish a functional, modern BiH, with European standards. ... Spending time on Dejton, I think it's a shame, than I suggest we focus on this second part, to bring a new constitution, so I would suggest a conclusion, which forms a group for making BiH's constitution. One representative of each political party from the House of Representatives will be appointed to the task force. The working group will bring the Rules of Procedure on their work and regulate the way they work. The working group will make decisions by consensus. When something's going to be done, let's do something good to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16886	Thank you. I don't have any more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. So, we move to the 16th point of the agenda: Ad. 16. Proposal for a resolution on non-recognition of unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo and Metohija – Proposer: MP Branko Dokić You have received the motion for a resolution, or today the House has declared that the resolution does not go into the commission phase, but that we should immediately declare it here. The promoter has the right to report first on this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16888	Thank you, Mr. Chairman 57, right at the beginning to say that this resolution has absolutely nothing to do with the previous point we had here. It quite coincided, because this resolution came after, as it says here, a unilateral declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija. And in this resolution, the Prosecutor, a Party of Democratic Progress and its MPs, suggests that the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives does not recognise and accept unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo and Metohilia, that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives calls on UNMIK, in accordance with its mandate under Resolution 1244, to annul a unilateral decision to declare Kosovo and Metohija independence, guarantees peace and security for Srbin and other non-Albanian peoples in Kosovo and Metohija, and calls on other UN member states to refrain from recognising Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence. All this because we appreciate that regional stability is a key issue for every country in the region, so in this case it is also a key issue for BiH, given that both Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija are in the nearest environment and in the neighbourhood of BiH. Starting with the act of unilateral declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija being contrary to the UN Charter and Resolution 1244 of UN Security Councils, I believe, dear friends, that in the paper you often read that this resolution was violated but some, for these or those reasons, had no need to look at it. I only want to read you one view of that resolution. So, I quote: reaffirming the commitment of all Member States to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the SR of Yugoslavia and other countries of the region, as stated in the Helsinki Document and aneks ii, reaffirming the appeal from previous resolutions for broad autonomy and core self-government for Kosovo. UNMIK, gentlemen, has been tasked with co-ordinating the Kosovo and Metohija authorities until the issue is reached and until the agreement is reached, I repeat, broad autonomy and essential self-government for Kosovo. You have these findings in this resolution on several sides of the text in at least four or five places. Therefore, respect for territorial integrity and guaranteeing, demand for a transitional period, a solution to Kosovo's status, which involves broad autonomy and essential self-government. I do not need to remind that BiH, in particular, which is in Serbia's nearest neighbourhood, should worry about such an act unilaterally imposed, from the point of view of the danger that it can be extended not only to the region but also to the wider area, and that the precedent has inconceivable consequences for future international relations. I know, unfortunately, that the degree of trust between us is often such or, let me say, not only often but almost always such as to watch more who said it, but what it is, but who said it, but what he said about the reverse universal value that it matters what anyone says. So, on this point, I will read to you only one point in a very extensive article, whose signature is Muhamed Filipović, I don't think you should be represented, in the "Independent Journal" of the 13th of this month. He asks himself the question, I am now quoting: that the problem in this case and was not in some final outcome of the whole thing that the discussion on the problem of Albanian-Serbian, or Kosovo and Metohija, and in this regard the fate of Kosovo and Metohija as part of Serbia 58 began by assuming already promised independence from one side in future negotiations. This did not harm only the part of the country taken away, but was done to the principle of a responsible settlement of all political issues in the modern world and in particular Europe. So there are many negative implications about this problem. Akademik Filipović warns of the following, and I urge you to read this text. Only in what every people who do wrong can rely on is the right and solidarity of all those to whom injustice threatens themselves. This is me, this last paragraph I read on purpose, from the point of view that BiH should support this resolution, expressing solidarity with its neighbouring country so that it does not suffer the injustice it has done in this case to Serbia. The resolution is not for any people within the three peoples, but for all of BiH. Bosnia and Herzegovina if it is ahead of the vanity of some foreign countries, individual officials here in BiH, some foreign countries, if its interest is concerned, then it will accept this resolution. You should not be reminded that one Španija, whose fellow citizen is one of the first people in Brussels, has made it clear that it will not accept unilaterally declared independence, not because it does not support Solan, but because of its interests. You should not be reminded that other EU members, I only call them here, such as Slovakia, such as kipar, which got EU membership the way it got it, but has explicitly said because of its interests that it will not recognise Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence, not to mention Romania and many other countries. I have to express my, I won't say, dissatisfaction, but I don't know how to say, by the fact that some media here in Sarajevo didn't understand the message of this resolution at all. I expected it to be so, and that's why she was presented at the press conference, 15 days before this session was held, on purpose, from a point of view. Because it's not, as someone said in one media, a consciously designed bomb that you can neither accept nor reject, in one newspaper, and in another newspaper, it's making a Kosovo myth, and on half the cover of one supplement is a picture of a Kosovo girl seeing a wound to an unknown known wounded hero, and that wounded hero is me, you can see it. I mean, I'm not even wounded, I don't consider myself a hero, and believe me, I'm not burdened with myths at all, but on the contrary, facing the future. _________(?) What paper is that? [[no microphone turned on]] Those newspapers that are very supportive of you. Yeah, 'cause the title of that paper, the article... Kosovo in our house. I assure you that this resolution is not Kosovo in this house, but a way to prevent Kosovo from entering this house. As far as the author of this article is not far away – he points out, as the newspaper calls it, I don't know, these drawn headlines – he is also appealing to us in BiH to serve us Ivo Sanader as a determined who is a little...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16890	Time! 59
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16891	Please, allow me, I won't answer later. The thing is... whether he accepts it or not. As far as I'm concerned, I'll say mine in the opening part. But let me call you, let me read you what he's calling for as a key thing, so that we should behave. He says, and the Slovenian Parliament has argued its decision to the right people for self-determination, so what they used, so Slovenia, Croatia, BiH, 16 years earlier. Following this message, because you need me to develop a possible scenario: first, from this message, one of these countries has eliminated one people from the constitutionality of the current state, so it brought what it brought. In Kosovo, on the other hand, Albanac were never or were still a nation but a national minority. So by comparing this with the situation in BiH, you can assume what scenarios could be developed. So I assure you that this step, the adoption of this resolution, is in the interest of creating BiH's stability. In what way? BiH, by adopting this resolution, can make a significant contribution to creating conditions for a solution to the Kosovo crisis over the next few years. This resolution does not mean, as some have found, recognition – never. No, she doesn't accept unanimous recognition. Then when a decision on Kosovo's status is made in the Security Council, of course this resolution is no longer valid. So she doesn't allow unilateral recognition. I just want to remind you that two scenarios of the development of the situation around Kosovo are possible. One, which leads to an agreement, which we here a few weeks ago had the opportunity to even hear from one respected professor, lecturer in the context of the topic: the European Perspective of BiH or something. He spoke about the position of the Western Balkans in the field of European integration and on one issue about Kosovo's position, and the whole situation, among other things, said that one of the variants is that in the next year, three of these come to an agreement on Kosovo, by which Kosovo would be divided. ... This resolution creates one assumption that even those forces that are not in favour of such an agreement, and this message comes from the EU, that we understand from Strasbourg, to create a chance for this approach to resolve the Kosovo issue in agreement, which would be extremely important for the position of BiH, that I am not opening up all the questions to you right now. The second scenario is very ugly. The second scenario creates the Middle East in the Western Balkans, in which it is clear that I am not going into detail now, knows who Israel is here, who it supports, knows who Palestine is here and who is who, and who is Liban. So let's not let someone in the inside of some of their big goals create conditions that we have a crisis here for so many years that we won't even remember its overcoming.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16892	Wait a minute. Please... are you at the end? We're close to time, please let us finish. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16893	Yes, I'm almost done. Whoever thinks that, and did not see, I deliberately mentioned the blizak istok, it is not Palestine, Israel, but the whole region that is covered by the team. So here I am, and I would have a lot more to say, I repeat, this resolution is in the interest of BiH's stability, in the interest of the region's stability in a broader sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16894	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ahmetović, and Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16895	...was announced immediately at the beginning to remove one dilemma. So, according to this motion for a resolution that reads the motion for a resolution on the non-recognition of Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence, here, in this presentation by Mr Dokić, which took a little longer, I thought that the sentence I was waiting for would be given by Mr Dokić, so that we could continue today's discussion in one form to make it clear to us all. So I'm going to say two more sentences just before that. This resolution may also be considered serious if we had had had by Mr Dokić before a resolution condemning the resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia since 21 February 2008, which calls for self-determination of the RS. But here, so don't spread the story. So, in order to set one such resolution or thesis, we need to get an answer to who is asking for Kosovo's recognition? So, answer us here in this parliament, so who is asking for Kosovo's recognition, so that we can talk about your resolution in relation to it? You or knowingly want to impose a problem on Kosovo to drag into this home, to create a problem for BiH or something else. If you answer this question, who is asking for Kosovo's recognition from serious political institutions in BiH and for us to continue our work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16896	I know, Mr. Dokić, that you said you wouldn't answer, but I also warn all MPs and those who said they'd be short and who won't answer with replicas and everything, not to say it, because it simply won't be so. So you're putting me in a position to tell you, I know you do, but you said you wouldn't. But here, so I'm warning all MPs, don't say anything, just pick up, answer the lines, and we'll finish this session and believe that tomorrow we'll start at 10.00, tomorrow we'll start at 10.00, and I don't have a problem. Of course we'll tell everyone what to do. Dear Ambassador Dokić has an answer to this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16897	Very, very short and very clear. 61 The first man of the BiH presidency, at the moment when the declaration took place, said: We will not rush with recognition. That's clear, please know that and Sanader said, "We won't be in a hurry." I think it's very current today, please. Secondly, a clear message in BiH that there will be no unilateral recognition of Kosovo is the answer to the resolution you mentioned. So that's very clear, too, if you want to read. Don't let me tell you the whole story now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16898	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ajanović, replica. Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16899	Thank you. Gentlemen, I'll be pretty short. I think that really this resolution is unnecessary, it should not... be placed on this parliament, a team before, that the BiH Presidency in charge of foreign policy has said unanimously by consensus that it will not recognise Kosovo at this time, that there is no need, and that it will certainly refer to what the EU is seeking to be rules. That means we don't need to talk about it, not much about it. But here something fell into my ear that the professor was saying. First, he mentioned a Security Council Resolution where Serbia is not mentioned anywhere but Yugoslavia. So, the land that fell apart. That's one thing. Another thing, there are always many injustices in history toward some provinces, some nations, some parts. So BiH is joined by the Kingdom of Serbs, Hrvat and Slovenac without a decision of the BiH Parliament based on 20 decisions of municipalities in BiH where most Srbin were, so I guess...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16900	Let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16901	Well, I guess that's what politics is about, that's what she needs to know. So... we can neither help Kosovo stay in the Republic of Serbia nor we can help it go away. That's why it's best not to vote on this resolution and go quietly and discuss our problems.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16902	Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Incorrect quote, correction, something, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16903	Discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16904	Discussion! Dear Ambassador Bahtić, first. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16905	Thank you. Following the motion for a resolution on Kosovo's non-recognition, I would like to say the following. I'll be honest and open as ever. Personally, I believe that this resolution, as well as many previous resolutions in this House, is an attempt by political parties, individuals, due to the election year to get cheap political points at the expense of BiH citizens. If it wasn't for an election year, believe me, there would be fewer resolutions, so we don't need to take these individual resolutions seriously. And a colleague of mine throws this one away, and there are some of these powerful resolutions who want a revolution. A little morgen, it'll never wait. But I also think that this is an unnecessary introduction of BiH into Kosovo's story, to God, it wants to be said that some Srbin from BiH are more concerned about Kosovo than the Srbijanac themselves in Serbia. Kosovo is a story to itself. A colleague, Dokić, tells us which state has scheduled,...the world's leading forces have recognised Kosovo. Here's Japan and Canada, most Europeans, America! We have a lot of work to do here in BiH and a lot of work on the European path rather than taking care of other countries' problems. The threats of Dokić, I can't figure it out, in case BiH recognises Kosovo? First, counterpart Ahmetović said, who said that BiH will recognise Kosovo and when will it confess? The state government will decide by consensus if it has to and will ever admit it. Therefore, this is an attempt to make political... security from some countries in the environment spill over to BiH, which will not work. I appreciate my colleague Dokić...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16906	Please be quiet in the gallery.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16907	...as a politician and expert in his field, as well as the president of PDP Mladen Ivanić, a prominent professor, an experienced politician and my countryman from the Sanski Most, was also born, and I am surprised by these suggestions. At least it is clear to them that BiH does not have... except a European path in which more should be talked about integration, employment, restoration, future building and less division and return to the past. Pre-election rhetoric no longer works with citizens, citizens watch what to live on. What they praised me in the '90s and after Dejton. Today there are other values in action. Today more than ever, politicians, authorities and parties should focus all their strength and energy on integration of Europe, NATO and all Euro-Atlantic integration, on implementing reforms, above all on economic and political, time will do its part. Today, a colleague from the SDP, this is not a party, this is Parliament, not a throwaway. Therefore, counterpart Dokić also spoke of a secession, he needs to know that BiH cannot or will not be able to be divided, vaccinated. My friend, you obviously need a psychiatrist and your president.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16908	Don't throw it to your colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16909	Then bring order here to these. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16910	I'm telling them not to get a lander.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16911	Thank you very much. I believe that BiH is an indivisible, sovereign, democratically recognised state, all its citizens, Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak, that it is over 1,000 years old, that no nation has brought a dowry or a piece of land into this country, nor will it be able to bring it out. It is welcome to all, those who are well-intentioned, and those who would like to get political points at the expense of these people, think they have chosen the right path and the wrong time, because BiH citizens are tired of this rhetoric. In the end, I will finish, I consider this a political pamphlet for winning, I said, cheap political points and unnecessary introduction of BiH into Kosovo's story, and therefore I find this resolution inconclusive, not to be considered, let alone adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16912	Thank you. This is how the order goes: Džaferović, Dolić, Bećirović. I'm asking you to come back here one more time.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16913	Mr. Chairman, I've already said what I think in the discussions on this previous resolution, I've touched this question once more. I call once again on all of us in BiH not to tighten relations with each other in BiH over Kosovo and not to undermine BiH's international position. We are obliged to take care of this country and anyone who tries to provoke the story of Kosovo in this parliament, and this is the BiH State Parliament, I think he should reconsider his well-meaning and his relationship with all of this. So I don't get rougher, so I can stay on this. This, Mr. Dokić, is an attempt to bring problems with Kosovo to BiH. BiH has been through a very difficult period, it has paid the price and you help us solve our problems here, and Kosovo will deal with where it is being solved. Our Bosnia and Herzegovina could neither influence nor influence nor influence. The BiH presidency's decision to say what it said is quite enough. A consensus must be reached on Kosovo's recognition in BiH, so to do so. There is no consensus, and on this issue we will not tighten relations within BiH, because there is no consensus on recognition, and we all know that. But asking for a resolution now to move forward and for Parliament to condemn what has happened, that Parliament is destroying the country's international position, is strengthening relations, trying to strengthen relations within this country and destroying the country's international position. Don't go after us in BiH, not against Europe, not against 64 Americans. We have our own way and we believe that our strategic partners and friends are both the EU and America. BiH has its own interests there, and take care of it when you propose such documents. Therefore, I ask you to withdraw this resolution. We don't need that. If you don't withdraw, of course,...we will vote against her. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16914	Dear Ambassador Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16915	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished guests, wanted to admit it or not, liked it or not, the events and status of Kosovo have, unfortunately, an impact on BiH's political stability. As much as this issue burdens me with my own emotions, either of those, Kosovo as an independent state is a reality that is officially recognised by the increasingly powerful and other countries of the world from day to day. Don't see it's just being blind with healthy eyes. This fact does not make the majority of BiH citizens too happy with Serbian nationality, and that is the fact and reality that we also need to respect. Personally, because of Kosovo's independence, I am neither happy nor unhappy, but in this regard I have a completely rational relationship and a rational position on which I care more about the stability of BiH and the stability of the relationship between the people's relations in BiH than the recognition of Kosovo. Although we have a rational relationship on this issue, the Democratic People's Community and I are personally against turning BiH into a hostage to Kosovo's independence. Making such a resolution would be exactly what is not rational for BiH, which is to turn this institutional BiH into a hostage of relations to Kosovo's independence. With full respect for emotions, this is not the most important, and I would even say, no more strategic issue for BiH unless, of course, we want to achieve political or other effects. A rare decision by the BiH presidency, which I unreservedly agree with, was a decision against relations with Kosovo's recognition. I fully agree, therefore, that this relationship should be the result of the three members of the BiH presidency's consensus. I'm not willing to make anyone happy or happy if it makes one people unhappy in BiH, but I'm not willing to make a fetish out of it. With the need to recognise Kosovo, Serbia will face not only BiH but also Serbia, and I am therefore a proponent of the policy of rational relations and cold head, and I am not for that reason that we are in any way violating such a strategy and doing and doing something that would cause a walk in BiH and a remilito of relations within BiH. Such a course of resolution, not only burdens domestic relations in BiH, but goes beyond the framework of international law and burdens BiH's relations with the international community. I think it would be unserious in this way to determine against the relationship to Kosovo's recognition, in a situation where more and more democratic world countries see the issue as reality. So I can't support this resolution, because I think what it advocates at 65 right now is irrational, which doesn't mean that we don't need to have a special relationship and show special seriousness and responsibility. With this attitude, I personally am not burdened with anything but the interests of the BiH state. It is human to have emotions and to solidarity, but it must therefore be within the framework of BiH's interest, and everything that comes out of that interest to me is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16916	Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16917	So I would like to say that the BiH Parliament is not exactly the right place at this time to be burdened with such topics, given what problems we have in BiH and given the size and strength of the BiH state. Personally, I believe that this issue of Kosovo's independence should have been approached in a sober way, with cold heads and completely in peace. I'm afraid one part of BiH joined unilaterally, even unconstitutionally. Unconstitutional of the BiH Constitution, which made it very clear what the powers of the BiH state are, what the entity's competences are. And, among other things, in Article III of the BiH Constitution, BiH's first jurisdiction is foreign policy. So, we have today's Resolution on non-recognition of unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo and Metohija, and we had in the RS Assembly a resolution under the same title, although it contains both resolutions. This resolution today has a constitutional basis, because the BiH state has a mandate to discuss and discuss issues related to foreign policy, unlike that resolution in one entity, which has no right to discuss foreign policy. We today need neither to recognise nor to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, but there is one other thing that needs to be said very clearly. Neither the BiH state nor any entity in BiH should allow themselves the luxury of condemning our strategic partners. And when I say our strategic partners, first of all I mean Brussels, Washington or, more specifically, I mean the United States, France, Great Britain, Germany, Italy and many other European countries. Unfortunately, an entity has passed a resolution condemning both the United States and Great Britain and France and Germany and Italy. Is it wise for us in BiH now for all its peoples and citizens? I don't think so. I would therefore like to say that the time will certainly come when BiH too should put this issue on the agenda. At this point, there's no hurry to discuss this matter at all. I think that we should try to build as a BiH state, as far as possible, an alliance and friendship policy with as many European and world countries as possible, especially those countries that are directly involved in these developments in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16918	Dear Ambassador Erić answered. And you, replica! Is it? Dear Ambassador Okolić. Replica, please. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16919	Well, I'd like Mr. Bećirović to explain to me, or to us who don't know, which is why we've defined who our strategic partners are. I am immediately from this discussion of his and from these countries, which he has counted to be our only strategic partners, building on. Because then we will insult Germany, Albania, Turkey, Switzerland and all other countries, with which I want to be a partner and my country to be a partner and to be with all other countries in the world. I have not pointed out that I do not want to be with her partner, but we want that or that I want my state of BiH to be a partner with all the countries in the world, who think good to humanity. So, the man counted only three countries, and I disagree, and here I am.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16920	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Erić. Is it a discussion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16921	Short to say, on behalf of the SDS Club. So we support this resolution, it is in line with the decisions of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska and I would not now enter these polemics. I think we should take the time to finish this assembly, and I suggest that in the future, when you propose the agenda together, sit down and don't bother us with things, and I expect that most of us will definitely bring the agenda that deals with the question of bread and the people, and I think it's very dangerous for the kid who's drowning to save someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16922	Thank you. No more reports. I'll give up the discussion and I'll just say that the SNSD will support the resolution and nothing else. We're having an argument. Moving to the 17th point of the agenda: Ad. 17. Denis Bećirović's initiative to adopt anti-corruption strategy in BiH Today, like the previous agenda, we voted to be on the agenda, the majority who voted for both points. It's not what the previous MP was talking about, it's what most of those agenda points are about, and that's why it's on the agenda. So 67 don't put everything on the College. So this Parliament has decided to make this the agenda, the way it is. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here, as a proposing, you have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16924	Since I submitted the initiative three sessions ago, given that it was copied and delivered to all MPs, I leave the possibility, if we are really in the tea area over time, that I am not explaining this initiative at all, but that we should just make a statement, unless you think we should open the debate. In that case, I'd give a certain explanation. Mr. Chairman, here's why I'm leaving that possibility. So I wouldn't give an introduction at all, given that I explained it three weeks ago, and if you think we need a debate, then I'd give an opening statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16925	I don't have anything to think about, don't think, there's an open debate. Any MP can answer that. If anyone can pick up, if they don't, I'm closing the argument. At 4:00 a.m. vote. So you suggested four o'clock, I said four o'clock, now you're proposing a second term. So don't, please, here's 15 to 4. [[PAUZA]] I ask you to complete the work of today's session, those from RS, the honourable MP Kadrić. Please, we're going to vote. In the consultation on the first item of the agenda, given the large number of amendments and very important issues, it is the Kolegijum's proposal to postpone the statement on this agenda point and that the group working on this try to agree and this law, whether they find agreement or not, will be found at a vote in Parliament on 3 April, when we have the next session. And so I'm asking, does dom object that this item of the agenda ends, that we don't vote? Thank you. We move to the second item of the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use of the Protection of the Name of BiH. We have a vote on the amendments first. So, honourable MP Ahmetović delivered two amendments. Please state the amandman I.. Do you have these amendments ahead of you? Is there a need to read them? If there's no need, prepare to vote. We're voting on the amandman and please prepare for the vote. 68 you can vote. Now! "For" 28, "against" three, "abstained", six, with a sufficient entity majority - I find that Amendment I has been adopted. We are going to vote on Amendment II. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 30, "against" three, "abstained" six. I agree that we have also adopted Amendment II We are now declaring ourselves on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of BiH (second reading), with amendments adopted. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 30, "against" was not, "abstained", 10, enough entity majority – I find that we have passed this law. We move to a vote on the third item of the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Participation of Members of the Armed Forces of BiH. We vote on the Commission's Defence and Security Report. You know that report was negative. In case we accept the report, this law falls. In case we don't accept the report, he's back to the Commission. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! ‘For’ 15, ‘against’ 24, ‘restricted’ one has been returned to the Commission. We move to a vote on the fourth item of the agenda of the proposal for a framework law on the protection of human beings and material goods from natural and other accidents (first reading). Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 38, "against" was not, "abstained" two. I realize we passed this law in our first reading. We move to the fifth item of the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act. The same is true in our first reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 37, "against" was not, "abstained" three. I realize we passed this law in our first reading. And there was a proposal to open a public debate on this law, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. 69 I ask Dom is it up to open a public debate about this law, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? Please prepare to vote. You can turn it off. Now! "For" 37, "against" was not, "abstained" three. I also find that we have adopted this conclusion on the organisation of a public debate. Moving to point 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Official Journal Act in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 34, "against" was not, "abstained" two. I realize we've passed this law. And, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, regarding this law, we have the conclusion of the honourable MP Novaković's Parliamentary Assembly of BiH asking the Public Enterprise "The Official Messenger of BiH" to submit to the House of Work for 2007, with an emphasis on financial indicators, as well as the work plan and the 2008 budget, as soon as possible. You've reached this conclusion, we don't even need to read it. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 39, "against" was not, one "abstained". I realize we've adopted this conclusion. We move to the seventh item of the agenda Report of the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Law on the revision of BiH institutions. We're voting on the report. Our commission has reached agreement on this, it needs Home to back up the report. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 35, there was no "against" four. I understand we've adopted the report. We move to the eighth item of the agenda Confirming the BiH presidency's decision to determine candidates for the BiH Armed Forces' general positions. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 36, "against" was not, "abstained" four. I understand we've confirmed the Bureau's decision. 70 We move to the ninth item of the agenda of the BiH Council of Ministers' Information on activities related to the formation and work of the truth-search Commission on the death of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej and others in Sarajevo from 1992 to 1995. In a discussion of all MPs and due to a large number of conclusions, we have prevailed in voting on the conclusion that the conclusions of our Equality Commission are being directed and that until the next session is offered to this House for adoption of the conclusions. Please – for human rights, excuse us – to vote on it. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 35, "against" one, "restricted" three. I realize we adopted that proposal. We are moving to vote on the 10th item of the agenda Report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina and on the work of the Commission for Data Protection for 2007. We had a proposal from the honourable MP, Huskić, to return this report to the Commission, given that this is the strongest conclusion and that it defines us afterwards on the vote of the report, we must first declare this conclusion. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 29, "against" six, "restricted" three. In relation to this item of the agenda, they will return to the Commission. Regarding this item of the agenda, we also had two conclusions from the honourable MP Novaković which, if you have no conclusions, I will read. 1. It undertakes the Data Protection Commission to come up with an activity plan, with a view to meeting citizens on this issue. 2. The Council of Ministers undertakes to provide financial and organisationally this activity plan. Please prepare to vote. You can vote on these conclusions. Now! "For" 37, "against" was not, "abstained" two. I realize we've adopted these conclusions. We move to the report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2007, with the opinion of our commission. We're voting on the report. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 36, "against" one, "sustained" three. I find that we have adopted the report, with the opinion of our commission, in which these conclusions are made. 71 We move to the 12th item of the agenda report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals in 2007. The vote just means the report, with the opinion of our commission. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! 33 "for", "against", three "abstained", with a sufficient entity majority -- I find that we adopted the Report. Now to me, honourable MP Bahtić, please, I just want to know if this proposal of yours is new within 90 days of the Council of Ministers; is it an integral part of this commission or is it a subsequent proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16927	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16928	Then we adopted him. We move to the 13th point of the agenda: Proposal for a resolution on responsibility – Proposers: Members of the SNSD Club. We have on the proposal of the honourable MP Izetbegović, and what the proposaler has accepted, that the content of the debate of MPs, based on this resolution, form a working group, in which two members from each club of MPs would enter. The working group would, on the basis of the motion for a resolution within 30 days, formulate a conclusion that will demonstrate the commitment of BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives to respect and implement the Dayton Peace Agreement on a stable, political and economic development of the whole country, an accelerated path towards Euro-Atlantic integration, equality of people and citizens, and continue to improve human rights throughout BiH. I hope you don't mind adding that within seven days, clubs are obliged to give their representatives and that they can start working, and since then, these 30 days are accounted for, and in case they don't agree, the motion for a resolution is put to the vote in the form offered by the SNSD. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 23, "against" 10, "abstained" six, with a sufficient entity majority - I find that we have adopted this conclusion. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission in order to bring the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents of Bosnia and Herzegovina into line. The proposals were: Commissioner Marković, Jukić, Kadrić. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! 72 "For" 31, "against" was not, "abstained", eight, enough entity majority -- I find that we have adopted. Point 15 of the agenda: Proposal to complement the interparliamentary friendship groups of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. In this proposal, we also have a certain addition in terms of replacement in the sixth group: Honorable MEP Belkić, the honourable MP Hadžiahmetović. It is the replacement and suggestion of the honourable MP Džaferović to pay attention to the formation of the leadership of these groups in relation to the decision on how to form commissions, our delegations and delegations, that those criteria that guided us in determining the leadership of these commissions and delegations are being guided. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! “For” 35, “against” was not, “abstained” five. I'm realizing we've adopted. We move to the 16th point of the agenda: a motion for a resolution on non-recognition of unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo and Metohija. Please prepare to vote. There were no amendments to this resolution. You can vote. Now! "For" 12, "against" 23, "abstained" four. The resolution did not receive the required majority. We move to the 17th point of the agenda: Denis Bećirović's initiative regarding the adoption of the Strategy. The initiative sets out deadlines and tasks. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 30, "against" one, "abstained" nine, enough with the entity majority - I find that we have adopted. Please, just a second of attention. So tomorrow's session starts at 1:00. With the desire to finish it in due time, we moved from 14 to 1300 hours. The people's home is at 1:00. So, regardless of whether the report was negative or positive, we at the session have to figure it out and nothing else. Anyway, tomorrow at 1:00. Dear Ambassador Zorić, you wanted something.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16929	Well, I did. It's too late. What are we gonna do till 1:00? 73
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-19-0.u16930	She asked the Commission to do it, the Commission asked for it. The session's over at 4:15.
