ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16587	I am opening the 24th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, at this session, we have one last question before we begin to discuss the agenda. And this is to decide on a motion for a resolution on the non-recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence, submitted on 4 March 2008 by Ambassador Branko Dokić. In line with the Rules of Procedure, we should decide whether the proposed resolution will be previously discussed on the committee responsible. Before that, please, given that last time the distinguished Minister Sredoje Nović was not at the session when the Council of Ministers was voted on, I call on him to now take the solemn oath.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16589	I'm asking Parliament to stand up. Declaring
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16590	Declaring
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16591	that I shall knowingly perform the duties which I have been entrusted with;
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16592	that I shall knowingly perform the duties which I have been entrusted with;
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16593	I respect the BiH Constitution;
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16594	I respect the BiH Constitution;
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16595	I fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH; 2
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16596	I fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH;
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16597	I protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16598	I protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16599	Let me congratulate you in front of the House. [[APLAuz]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have been given a review of the agenda of the 24th session of 17 points. I have a need to point out that yesterday from the Ministry of Security we received information on the current state of security in BiH, which you received yesterday or this morning at the MPs' clubs. Yesterday, we also received a request from the esteemed Security Minister, Mr Sadović, to move this point among the first points of the agenda, so that he could attend the session during the debate. However, we have discussed this point at the College and we have found that we do not have the opinion of the committee responsible for the information we have received on this point, so now in the written, agenda and I remind you of the provision of Article 64(4) of the Rules of Procedure of this House which reads: The College does not include in the agenda those issues... for which the committee has not delivered an opinion. According to the report, it is proposed that the information we received yesterday be forwarded to the committee responsible for considering and delivering opinions, which would mean that today we are removing this item from the agenda. The next request regarding the agenda was received from the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Namely, the D.A. is asking that information on the work of the D.A. be removed from this session, for the reason that V.D. The chief prosecutor is officially absent and unable to attend the session. And those were demands regarding this agenda. And it suggests that we take these two points off the agenda. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16601	At the beginning of last session, we agreed, Mr. Chairman, that the issue of this initiative regarding the adoption of the Anti-Corruption Strategy is being updated at the beginning of this session. I therefore propose that the statement on this initiative be one of the points of the 3rd agenda. I therefore remind you that, before even three sessions, I have submitted this initiative and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I think we should have already made a statement about this initiative. I also want to point out here, given that I got one letter from the College, I have to say that what the College is doing is nothing controversial, so it's good to do that. However, this activity of the College and this initiative, although having certain similarities, is not the same thing. My initiative exactly has a deadline to do so, and I think it's an important question that can't be postponed anymore. Therefore, I ask you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to put this on the agenda and that Parliament declares itself on this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16602	Of course, it is not disputed to offer initiatives to amend and supplement the agenda. We in the College felt that we had explained what we had done so far, what background we still thought we were doing. We didn't get any written response from you after whether that's enough or need to put it as a part of the agenda. We didn't get a note in writing, we only got some oral notice from the secretary of your service, so we didn't get anything in writing and it's perfectly legal for you to suggest it as a part of the agenda. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović had it, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16603	Point 16. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission to bring the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents into line. I'm asked by the people of the D.O.D. to pull this point forward to, say, 7-8th place, right behind the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16604	There's no microphone on. Why?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16605	They're in a hurry to work on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16606	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16607	So we can't get anything special, can we? Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16608	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16609	...my proposal to put you to the vote. I suggest, possibly, that if he does not receive the necessary support, that today be on the agenda, that here you have my consent, so that I stay with my initiative, and that this initiative, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, comes to the agenda at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16610	So, according to what Parliament is today determined, the committee in charge will have to do with the material it has, to determine accordingly. If there is no more debate on the agenda, I would first put this initiative on the part of the honourable MP Dokić as a previous issue, to vote on it going into the commission phase, which is why I call on Dom to prepare for the vote on this resolution proposed by the honourable MP Dokić to go into the commission phase, as a previous question. We're dealing with it as a previous question, and then we're going to vote on the agenda. So that's like the previous question, it's not discussed, it's either going to the commission or it's being placed as a part of the agenda. If it's put on as a part of the agenda, then we'll discuss it. That's the kind of practice we've had here so far. All resolutions previously go into the commission phase. I don't think there's any need to argue, it's all clear to everyone. So we're voting on whether this resolution will go into the commission phase. If this resolution does not have a majority for the commission phase, then it is placed as a item of the agenda and discussed. And then you have everything to say about that resolution. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 12, "against", 15, "restricted" four. We don't have enough entity majority. We vote in the second round. So we don't have a general majority. This resolution goes into the agenda and will be on the agenda as the last item of the agenda. We are now voting, i.e. we are voting... on the agenda in the proposals proposed by the honourable MP Bećirović. It means that his initiative is placed in the agenda. I'm warning you, we don't have a commission report, so it's gonna be difficult to put it on the agenda. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 15, "against" 12, with a sufficient entity majority – I find that this initiative is included in the agenda at the last point. Last act as an initiative. I find that we have adopted the agenda, with the recommendations that we have said, that these two dots are coming off the agenda and these two new ones that we have adopted. 5 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Election Law (second reading); 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Participation of Members of the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, police officers, civil servants and other employees in peace support operations and other activities abroad (Proposer of the Council of Ministers), with the Joint Defence and Security Commission Report; 4. Proposal for a framework law on the protection and rescue of people and material goods from natural and other accidents in BiH (first reading); 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Criminal Procedure Act (first reading); 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer of MP Adem Huskić); 7. Report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Law on the Internal Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 8. The BiH presidency's decision to determine candidates in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces (number 01,02-03-11008 of 23.01.2008), to confirm; 9. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on activities related to the formation and work of the Commission on the examination of the truth about the death of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej and others in Sarajevo in the period from 1992 to 1995; 10. Report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina and on the work of the Commission for Data Protection for 2007; 11. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2007; 12. Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals in 2007; 13. Proposal for a resolution on liability (proposers of the SNSD Club MPs); 14. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission to bring the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents of Bosnia and Herzegovina into line; 15. Proposal to complement the interparliamentary friendship groups of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly (proposer of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the House of Representatives); 16. Resolution on non-recognition of unilaterally declared independence between Kosovo and Metohija; 17. An initiative on the adoption of a Anti-Corruption Strategy Can this point of the agenda be read like that? Thank you. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda points. First item of the agenda 6 Ad.1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16613	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, as is known, whether by order or by decision of this house, an Interresor Working Group was formed, composed of representatives of Parliament, Council of Ministers and Election Commission, which worked on amendments and additions to BiH's election law. That's the bill you got. He was adopted in the first reading. And I will now speak as chairman of the Constitutional Commission. On the draft law you received, the Constitutional Commission adopted 13 amendments which, in my opinion, and in the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, improved the text of this law and described these amendments in the Commission Report. There were also a number of other amendments on the Commission which did not receive support from the Commission. The Commission, I would say, would make every effort to preserve the basic text of the law that came into the parliamentary procedure of the Interresor Red Group, because the work of the Interresor Working Group is organised so that it decides practically by consensus and all the solutions that have come from the Interresor Working Group are the result of consensus, practically all solutions, except for one amendment and in the Constitutional Commission Report, are the result of the practical consensus of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. So much in the discussion, as chairman of the Constitutional Legal Commission and as chairman of these Interresor Working Groups, I had a need to say this. And now I'm going to say just a few sentences about the amendment, since this is the second stage now, I'm going to take advantage of the opportunity to say something as an MP in this House that has been tabled by the amandman he has decided to defend in this plenary phase as well. 7 The amendment concerns the realisation or implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision on the constitutionality of the people in BiH. In fact, we have implemented the Election Law with these amendments and amendments to the election law, and I think in the right way of the Law on the Rights of National Minorities in BiH, because we have signed procedures to guarantee the seats of national minorities in local congregations, so I mean municipal and city halls in BiH. And that's not disputed, it's not disputed by the Interresor Working Group, it's not disputed either by the Constitutional Commission. There is one amendment here that, among other things, and at the Centre of Civil Initiative initiative initiative, something corrects these solutions that were in the original law, although it can also be discussed, long and wide. Here is the question, and that is my amendment: guaranteed or guaranteed representation of constituent peoples in local councils. We, if we don't do something now when we amend the Election Law, I'm afraid that after these elections and in those environments, we're going to make local choices, and in those environments, which are according to the '91 census. The year was highly multiethnic, obtaining a monoethnic municipal and city council due to the violent change in BiH's ethnic structure... census in '91. the year to this day. I therefore believe that we should do something and the Constitutional Commission adopted, on a proposal from fellow Genjac, an amendment that guarantees members of the constituent peoples at least one place in the local councils and in the cantonal congregations. I believe – and that amendment we had a big debate, we had some disagreements – but here, this amendment was adopted on the Constitutional Commission and I am obliged to say it. But in addition, I think it's not enough that we should do a wider procedure and guarantee in certain percentages of the multiethnic structure in those environments where it was really that way, according to the 1991 census. That is what the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitution of the people obliges us to do, and therefore my amendment goes in that direction. Actually, I took it. It's the idea of some of the members of the Central Election Commission from the work of this Interresor Working Group, when it couldn't pass, and I have to say, so that's the idea that came from them, for authorship. So it's not my original, but I am, because of the position I am in, and because of my commitment to such a solution, I am taking it out and representing that solution. And that is to say that the future congregations of municipalities and city councils have guaranteed seats according to the list of constituent peoples, according to the 1991 census, taking tolerance, i.e. deviation plus, minus 20%. Whether it will be so, as it will be, depends of course on this parliament, but I am taking this opportunity to draw attention to this very, very important issue in BiH once again, which I repeat, directly correspondence with the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people, to take care therefore and to do something about it, to do something. That's it, thank you. If there's any need, I'll take your word for it later.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16614	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16615	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues, I have proposed two groups of amendments. One, which treats amendments which are not accepted on the committee responsible. And the second, which treats the amendment to the adopted amendment of the committee responsible. When it comes to this second group of amendments, I must say that this amendment by Mr. Genjac, which was adopted on the Constitutional Legal Commission, is, firstly, not in agreement with the Constitution of the RS,.... what part of the voting body is also the RS. On the other hand, this choice of council members in the local congregation is completely detimulative for the voters to go out. After adopting such an amendment, indeed, voters who are minorities in some areas will not need to go out, use their rights, because they will have pre-supposed seats in the congregations. Also, I believe that this reduces people's interest in coming back. So, I don't think we have rightly resolved the issue of the constitutionality of the people or the participation of the constituent peoples in the legislative authority. Of course, each of us has the right to an idea. So Mr. Džaferović's idea to keep it in line with the list, plus - minus 20%, is an idea. We have worse situations in practice in BiH. There was a public competition in Brcko for selecting committees in the Brcko District Assembly when some SDS committees were removed. I guess that was also a contribution to democracy and democratic elections. And what Mr. Džaferović suggests is also a kind of contribution to democratic elections. I don't know if this model has been tested anywhere in the world. I suppose he's not and of course he's unacceptable to me. I believe that the constitutionality of the people must be defined by a much wider framework than the Election Law and that with one member in the Election Law we cannot resolve the issue of the constitutionality of the people in municipalities, and especially cannot in cantons. Because, gentlemen, our guarantee of the position of a councilman in the canton is, slightly speaking, the play of the decision on the constitutionality of the people. I'm convinced that this decision should have been brought down to a lower level but in all segments, especially to bring it down to canton level, and then to move on. This is how skipping the process, especially if it is not in agreement with the Constitution, I don't think it contributes to solving the problem and contributes to the realization of the idea proposed by the amendment. That is why we will not speak positively of this proposal, namely we will be against the proposed amendment. Also, depending on the position on this amandman I, i.e. on eradicating Article 58a, we will also define ourselves on the electoral law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16616	Dear Ambassador Džaferović: Replica. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16617	So, very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I understand that someone has their own attitude and that brings that attitude here, and that's it, is it? It's legitimate. Parliament is this and attitudes should be expressed but I would pray, so when attitudes are expressed, that things, let me say slightly, are not trying to caricate the statements of the type: is this tested anywhere in the world and the like. I see it as a kind of cartoon of what I've been saying. We don't have to go far into the world. Here in BiH, here in the entity parliaments, therefore there are guaranteed places in the Federation Parliament, there are also in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the Federation House of Representatives and nothing, it exists in the cantonal congregations based on the Constitutional Court Decision on the constitutionality of the people and... I think it should be extended to the local level, where they really feel the most, in fact, the most changes at the local level of the ethnic structure. So it's changed, and this is a choice for these local communities. That's what we're talking about. Therefore, I would ask that only arguments be made because, indeed, none of what is written and what I have said, this is very and many times searched on this Interresor Working Group and between us and nothing has been said in mind. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16618	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Raguž: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16619	Thank you. Thus, by respecting the discussion and arguments presented by Mr. Novaković, in the sense that there are different modalities that can be implemented by the Constitutional Court's decision on constitutionality and to reflect this demand and need, I still think that we are in a situation where we regulate this very important law before the local elections. And if we miss this moment now, we're missing four years. And then we'll... in public talk about it, and five years still waiting for us to do something concrete. Where life takes place, there's local... I think these amendments to Mr. Džaferović..../interrupted connection/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16620	Wait a minute, you're not registering!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16621	There he is. So, because you see, the story is that it can be done, and you miss the chance to do it now, and five years means the processes will take place in one direction that will not be stimulating for people or for, not for their return, but for their staying. You're all in a position to go out on the field and see where there's not one municipal councilman, and the environments were multiethnic, we don't have... today. We're not talking about any partial people or... but it's a general situation. I think we should respect that fact even if it's not an ideal solution. I can accept that these are not ideal solutions but, in any case, they are better than not to take those 10 kinds of measures and I think it deserves the really most serious effort of all of us to find a solution to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16622	Dear MP Ajanović: discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16623	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I'll be quite brief, but there are some things I'd like to underline. First of all, we know who remembers that from the '91 census. In the year, there was almost no municipality in BiH that was only one-national. It was in almost every municipality, and even in the Drava, which had 99 per cent and more Srbin, there were several... people who were other nationalities. The fact is that there was a war, that there was movement and that in many places there had been, at least not on paper, and there was a one-national environment, and I think we should support this, really these two amendments that talk about improving and certain situations and guaranteed, at least one vote, to certain peoples. When we decided that for minorities, why don't we do that for the constituent peoples as well? I don't think there should be any issue here. However, I have chosen the most to say one of my own opinions. In front of us, and on the Commission certainly, and today there are amendments that speak of Srebrenica, and we all know that there has been a fact that there has been genocide, and the duty of all institutions, including this institution Parliament, to lead certain special... reasons and special interest in that area, and therefore I believe that, therefore, I would really support this amendment which has been... restored to Srebrenica that the election law has special status, because it is one and a obligation and, if you want, honestly, let me tell you, if you read this Convention well, then you will see that it is the duty of all of us to correct the existing situation because where the genocide is done is not counted on by the demographics only people who are missing from this globe, who, not to say, are brutally liquidated, but always counting on how much the reproductive power of these people would be left to live on that ground. In fact, genocide is... the reason for the extermination of a national group in a particular area. And that is why I believe that all MPs in this House will have a sense and a hearing to think about today to find one of the best solutions to the Status of Srebrenica, in terms of this Electoral Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16624	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Genjac: discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16625	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are aware that the Election Law is a very important law and that the changes of such a kind of matter carry with them always great work and great responsibility, and in our conditions great problems. I have submitted some 20 amendments to the Constitutional Commission and nearly half of it has been accepted by consensus. And these are mostly technical improvements and some and perhaps essential. In particular, I think it is important that we have placed the issue of national minorities 11 in some principles and frameworks, because this and the Law on the Rights of National Minorities requires the Election Law to regulate the basic frameworks in which the right of national minorities in local self-government is exercised. Amendments to this law, since they come before municipal elections, were intentional and key motive is to ensure that national minorities and national minorities are represented in municipal councils, or municipalities. It was one of the basic motives for joining this bill, with these technical improvements which proved to be problems through the work of the Central Election Commission. And we don't have any big problems here. We have a problem that's spoken about, and I'd really like to answer some of the more difficult things to explain. After the last municipal elections, in 10 municipalities in the Federation that had a significant participation of Hrvat or Srbin and even 40%, there are no Srbin or Hrvat in these municipal councils. In some cases, no Bošnjak. There is, for example, Kladuša, Bihać, Gradac, Lukavac, Zepče, Živonica, Kalesia, Donji Vakuf, Kakanja, Livno, Bugojno, Viso, Beza, Ilijaš, Konjic. So here, in certain environments we have, let's say, 40% of one nation on the last list, there are now no council members, or councilmen from that nation. In RS, we have the same situation. For example, Banja Luka, Bosnian Krupa, Prnjavor, Derventa, Bosnian Brod, Modriča, Celinac, Doboj, Mrkonjic City, Kotor Varoš, Nevesinje, where there is either one nation or no two peoples. And this is about environments where there are about 40% and 30% in some cities on the last census. Which are the reasons why it happened, I wouldn't be here right now. We, I hope, agree on what the reasons are, in every reason. It's not the reasons that depend on those people who lived in those areas, it's not the expression of their will. The expression is their trouble, of course. Then, when we have resolved the issue of national minorities and guaranteed it, because it is the law that requires that a certain percentage per list of others must be represented in municipal councils, or municipalities, then the question really arises whether we can go through such a glare besides the fact that, as I know, in such a large number of municipalities, with such a large structure and percentage of the population, there is simply no representative of one, second or third people, of course, we could not, given the importance of local self-government, given the topic that is being solved, given everything that is important on the municipal council, or the congregation of the municipality. I have made one attempt in terms of amendments, to say that if in one municipality there was more than 3% of a nation in the last list, one committee was guaranteed to him, in a way that when examined, it was filled, there was 25, it was filled in 24, so it was seen whether there were all three peoples represented among those 24; if there were no people, the last place was assigned to a party that had such a qualified candidate and that had the largest amount. It's a very correct approach that provides one place. Why 3%? Because 3% of the censorship is in our law. You have a situation, there are three or more percent, two or three parties sign up, which is totally in line with democratic principles. One gets 2%, one 2.5%, the other 2.8%, and a large number of voters come out, but there are no censors and no constituent people. 12 This is, therefore, the principle that there are parties, that the party is to be reported, the censorship is to be maintained, but this guaranteed place guarantees that the possibility of constitutionally being presented. Note that this does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia? I think you should carefully deal with it, I don't see why it wouldn't be in line with the RS Constitution? The RS constitution does not say that it must be so but does not say that it cannot be so, or, if it is forbidden, then the constitution did not agree with the BiH Constitution, because both entities are multiethnic, in line with the Dayton Constitution. So I don't think I see where that would be contrary to the Constitution. Another remark that it would eventually demote voters to come to... because they have a guaranteed place! I don't think there's a comment at all, because now voters vote not because they don't or don't vote because they have a guaranteed place, so 25 seats, they're going to choose someone, but because they want to elect a representative from their political option. So, as much as you guarantee seats, there is still... a match between political entities, between political parties and voters, of course, are interested in selecting a councilman, or councilman from their political options, so I'm not going into a deeper analysis. That doesn't mean that it will demote voters not to go to the polls. I think considering this whole context, given the importance of having in mind one positive message that would be made with this kind of change, I think it's a far greater benefit than some kind of misunderstanding, I don't know either. I think this would greatly strengthen the representation and sense of security and the sense of respect for all constituent peoples in all municipalities, regardless of where they are and the impression of representation in the municipal council or the local community assembly, which I think would further motivate some processes. I don't really see any convincing argument about being against this guaranteed approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16626	The word has a respected chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16627	Thank you. It must be an important subject, and we will certainly discuss this subject not only today but also in the coming period and it is good to talk. However, it may not be good to make decisions that may have a systemic character, which are not well... clarified. I first support the Commission's work and believe that the Commission has done well and has worked on a few principles that I want to promote in the continued work of our committees, which is that the Commission could, by its rules, have reached certain solutions by revote. But she was aware that the solutions would not be able to win the required majority in this parliament. And that's why she was working with consensus. On the other hand, we went honestly and with good faith in the amendments and additions of the Election Law, knowing that the Election Commission has big problems in its work and wanting to enable our voters to get to the polls more easily, to vote easier, but that some of the ambiguities 13 that were clearly in the Electoral Law are being overcome. So, we didn't go with someone being duped or putting some of their programming goals into this Electoral Law. For this reason, I believe that the Constitutional Commission, by this same principle, should have worked and, if we are going to advocate certain principles in the work, then I see no reason why both the ustavnopravni and all the other committees here in the House, on that proposal that I had on amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure, to vote on the basis of what is voted on in this House. They'd be easier to come up with legal projects here in the very home and, that debate of all the commissions they should do, they wouldn't repeat here at this home. For this reason, I have also proposed these amendments, as you have seen, in line with what was written in the report on the work of the Ad hoc Commission, where I disagreed with the introduction of a new voting method. In my view, this is a step back, the vote by diplomatic and consular representations, I believe that the solution, the way of registration, the post-election vote was taken from the rules and regulations of the Interim Election Commission UPS, which reflects the highest possible standards when it comes to voting law, that this is in line with the Dayton Agreement, aneks III, and that we have applied this over a period of more than 10 years, to which our voters have become accustomed. I think we should go towards modernizing that way. The only more modern way of voting is by electronic means, so that the diplomatic-consular path and the way of voting, which both have our countries, and some of our countries in the neighbourhood, is a step back, not to mention the price that is planned here, about 500 thousand marks, that would burden BiH's additional budget. And believe me, I personally don't think it would bring anything new. No one can convince me that the DKP network, that is, in BiH and the world developed, can convince me that the mailbox is further, that it is not closer than the centre of the DKP in that country, so I think it is illogical and unacceptable. On the other hand, my amendment that goes – some here called for the consistency of the people, the Constitutional Court Decision – is going that way. Thus, the introduction of the Constitutional Court Decision into the Election Law and is related to Amendments III and IV because some names that do not have any legal foothold are currently used in the current text of the law. Some municipalities are called neither, nor have they ever been called that. It's about municipalities, for example, Krupa in the Union, which in this law is called the Bosnian Krupa – Krupa in the Union, the New City called Bosnian Novi – Novi Grad, etc. and, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, the electoral law had to comply with that decision, as have some other decisions. At the same time, when I was talking about that no one wanted to cheat on that committee, I believe that here are the members of the Election Commission, that further clarification should be made, for that reason is this subsequent amendment of the SNSD, the amendment concerning Article 60. The proposal for a law supplementing BiH's election law, which, I fear, changes Article 13.7 and makes it impossible for entities to determine their laws how to choose the mayor, the mayor. I do not want to believe that Article 13.7 is in the form that we adopted which says: The municipal chief, or mayor elected unfavorably, elects voters to be listed in the Central Election List in that constituency, in accordance with the entity law, the law of the municipality, or the city, means only to be chosen unhappily, but implies that it means that from those who choose directly, however, if we interpret it, we should interpret it in such a way that we have, in accordance with this and this first position – then we lack one member that we have abolished, which is a member of the 13.7 that says: and it processes the way in which we can directly choose the Commissioner. And we can get into a situation in case we adopt a member like this in 60 to be a member of 13.7. - 14 I am speaking to the Election Law – that entities for any reason do not adopt their entity laws, leave a void for the possibility to commit themselves, to choose the Commissioners indirectly. So, we've kicked out of the law this part about determination and way if entities decide by their laws to go to the indirect mayor's election, so I think we have two options. So let's get the old member back as it stands, which, in my opinion, is the easiest thing to do, which is why I suggested an amendment like this. Or to return (2), (3) and (4) the position of the old Article 13.7 to the law, where it is also stated the way in which the commissioners will be elected. For that reason, here's the SNSD and I will commit to this legal project. I ask all MPs to keep that in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16628	The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16629	My colleagues and colleagues, this is another replica to me after the discussion. I would ask you... I today have the capacity to chair this Interresor Working Group, the chairman of the Constitutional Commission and MPs. You can do whatever you want, I mean, according to the Rules of Procedure, you can tell me that I no longer have the right to discuss it, but I would ask you, it doesn't have to be that much, I won't, I sure as hell won't. Drago, I certainly won't use it... but if there's any need for any shorter interventions and later, please keep that in mind. There are some things that need to be explained here about the way we work, that the public knows it. If they knew, after all, all my colleagues and colleagues, I apologize to my colleagues. The Interresor Working Group is based on the consent of all members of the Interresor Working Group who were present at certain meetings of the Interresor Working Group, and could not work unless there was a quorum, so on the basis of the consensus, it proposed 80 interventions to the BiH Election Law. And that's these 80, or 79 members, which we have, and the 80th is talking about its entry into force, that's something that comes in itself, and in itself will come to the conclusion of this Parliament, after we adopt this law, to assign our Electoral Commission to pass, in an urgent time, to this Parliament, after the publication of this in the Official Messenger, the consolidated text of the Electoral Law, that it be adopted, that we also end this matter. I'm asking the secretary to record that thing. So, the 80 interventions contained here are based on the consensus at Interresor Working Group meetings, the members of the Interresor Working Group present, and we've always had a quorum. And some 15 to 18 sessions of the Interresor Working Group were held in connection with the Electoral Law. The rest are related to other laws, because we are working on the Law on conflict of interest and the Law on the financing of political parties. And the Law of Conflict of Interest has already come to parliamentary procedure. I need to say this after Mr. Chairman's discussion. The way of voting abroad is the result that has been changed is the result of an analysis by the Election Commission and a meeting with the foreign ministry that confirmed it can organise a vote in the DKPs. And I think that's the solution that needs to be supported by this parliament and that's the whole agreement on the Interresor Working Group. 15 When you take the Report of the Constitutional Commission and the Law, all you have is a practical result of the consent of all who participated in both the Interresor Working Group and the Constitutional and Legal Commission, except one thing. And that's what it is about a member of the 58th.a. of this representation. I told my colleagues I'd tell it at Parliament. When we made the decision because we felt on the Constitutional Legal Commission that it could not withstand criticism that there was not at least one representative of the constituent people in the local communities, that it is not possible to defend it. But it is fair to say that this matter is not the result of consensus, either on the Interresor Working Group or on the Constitutional Commission. And it is also fair to say that, when you refer to the bill, Mr. Živković, that Mr. Živković and Ivanić, who are members of this Interresor Working Group, said: Okay, you did so at that session when it comes to voting the diaspora in the DKPs, based on the consent that was at that quorum but, you know, you have our reserves. And they wrote their reserves here in this, but the Interresor Working Group decided by consensus and then, those who were present. I think you should know, in order not to get into a position, it's been a lot of work to get through this. This is a very complicated matter and procedure. There's 79 interventions here. For many of them, we say they're legal-technical. Some of them have been lost for a few hours. When does the mandate begin, when does the term of office stop? No Niko mentions that thing here in Parliament. But it's a very, very important thing that we appreciate as a legal-technical character. So all we have is a practical result of consensus except for this thing. And I call on Parliament, therefore, because we knew, we knew what we would come to when we came to Parliament and how it is decided in Parliament. Eh, now I call on Parliament, I, so now as an MP, to consider these things that I think are logical and to open up discussion and discussion about them. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16630	Dear Ambassador Novaković: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16631	...I would say that the question is, namely the discussion of the chairman, and it is about Article 13.7. So, from what I understand, SNSD has an amendment here, is it, or is there no amendment? I didn't get any amendment, did I? I seem to have heard that there is an amendment which was subsequently delivered, I do not know which member of the Rules of Procedure was invited by the club when he delivered the amendment, since there was no such amendment in the amendment phase. Secondly, this call to the Election Commission, the Central Election Commission, to interpret, as I understand it, is an invitation to the Central Election Commission to interpret the position (2) of this member who says: The municipal chief, or mayor, elected directly by voters. So to interpret whether this applies only to those who choose or that it means that they are all elected directly. So if it's an invitation to the Central Election Commission, then we practically can't finish the debate today without that interpretation. So we can't approach the vote on amendments until the Central Election Commission or the Working Group, which did this text, does not ambush – let's take a break – sit down and define what she meant by this. 16 So my proposal is that we do not finish the debate if, I am relying on the Chairman's proposal, so that we do not finish the debate until we have a clear opinion or working group, and it would be good for both the working groups and the Central Election Commission to interpret the positions (2) of Article 13.7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16632	The word has been respected by the president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16633	I hope all MPs have received this amendment 17.3. – means, is invested – SNSD, as referred to in Article 118(3). I, in agreement with my deputies, felt that new circumstances had arisen, with the initiative also being launched in the National Assembly of amendments and additions to the law, in which it is going towards the indirect selection of the commissioners. These are new moments, and with a subsequent view of this, we have found that this 13.7 is not clearly precise enough. What happens if, say, entities don't regulate it by their laws? This old interpretation of Article 13.7 makes this clear. This brings it... vaguely, so we asked for an additional explanation about it. Dear Lozančić, then Belkić. Here's the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16634	Thank you, Mr. President. You see,... here I will now answer both as a member of the Interresor Group and as one of the signatories of this proposal that has come into parliamentary procedure and I will comment on certain amendments that the Constitutional Commission has accepted, certain which have not accepted and certain positions of the HDZ Club on certain issues which are questionable, at least in the current debate and through the work of the Constitutional Commission. What Mr. Džaferović said absolutely stands. So, this Interressor Working Group, I don't know either, in multiple sessions, with a maximum effort to come up with some kind of solution, has sought solutions through consensus. And what we have agreed is indeed the result of the consensus on what we have been able to agree on. Some members of the Interresor Working Group asked for it at the time when we were completing the work, and everyone else accepted that it was possible for everyone to act as an amendment to the law on issues that did not receive consensus in the work of the Interresor Group. On this basis, all of you and the members of the Interresor Working Group were given the right and opportunity to make amendments to the draft law, i.e. the draft law and the amendment and addition of the laws proposed by the Interresor Working Group. By believing or believing that the work of the Constitutional Commission was very much required, given the complexity of the procedure, and, I say, the diversity of political interests, the political thinking of those who express the political will here in this House. It is clear that every law is an expression of political will, and the Electoral Law in particular or, I would say, a particularly political will. With us here, the expression of more political wills that are often not in the same direction, are not similar, 17 are not the same, but that we should coordinate to get a certain system that can be as much critical as possible, here's what I'm saying, the objective public. And I'll only stay here for one question. It concerns issues of national minorities' representation and the issue of representation of constituent peoples in municipal councils and cantonal congregations. I also asked about this question at one of the Interresor Group meetings: To whom, and why, in this country, can it bother that at least one representative of every constituent nation in this country sits in every municipal council in this country, or on the territory of the municipality on which the municipal council operates? What can this one councilman do to harm whom he can harm? Who can create a problem at all? And I'll agree with them that it's not an ideal solution. It's absolutely not ideal. It's not ideal for us to have such a destruction demographic in BiH today, it's not ideal, I mean it's clear, we all know that, but isn't it fair, I'm talking, I'm not going to talk about the political interests of anyone else's, human beings, where we're in most of our neighbours, who are here because of war events, to call it different, to remain in the minority, who can't really get their representation through real democratic means because they don't have numbers. I mean, now that they don't have the numbers, we can talk about it as much as we want. To provide them with what is written in the Constitution, what we are called upon to preserve human dignity. That, as equal citizens of this country, they can at least speak at the meetings of their local municipal councils about the problems that plague them. Which, by the way, is the representatives of an ethnic group, whose members they are. Clearly, one cannot make a decision. It's clear that one cannot stop the decision, clearly yes, it's all clear. What's the problem with being at least one? I am more in favour of this amendment, which Mr Džaferović has invested and I think he is much more honest, means much more fair, much more correct, and if there is a statement on the amendments and on this amendment – I hope that Mr Džaferović will not give up on this amendment – I will certainly support this amendment, because I think he is correct. And neither is this amendment to anyone's harm. Because... we're not saying that this amendment will ensure the representation of only Hrvat, just Bošnjak or only Srbin, all of them. Therefore, I don't see what should bother me if the Hrvat are represented somewhere, i.e. now to order both Bošnjak and Srbin, etc. There's no reason. And no one should fear that representation will endanger the work of the municipal councils. I just think it can make him rich, too. And that's the only way I'm gonna touch this. I'm glad it means that we've been through these changes and additions and the Law on the Rights of National Minorities. I hope, I say, that we will implement them because we have installed amendments to the Electoral Law the right of national minorities to be represented in the work of municipal councils. And I believe it won't be problematic and I don't see anyone here having any problems. And, look, that's it, now we've got a problem to deal with the representation of the constituent peoples, and we don't have a problem with national minority representatives! I mean, we have to be with ourselves, when... we're up to something or... we're up against something, clear with ourselves, that we have some logic, some consistency in what we stand for. So, here, I appreciate, once again, that every one of us here, and clubs and as individuals, we have both our own political will and our political demands, but here's to saying that no one wrongly understands me to appeal to all of us that at least we accept, if this amendment of Mr. Džaferović, which I think is correct, fair, appropriate, that at least we accept what our Constitutional Commission has adopted, which here keeps a minimum of 18 minimum of dignity for the representatives of every constituent people and for us here who, hopefully, we will vote that, to say, we have nevertheless tried to make some honest solutions for all of this country's citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16635	Dear Ambassador Novaković has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16636	You see, it would be good if we really listened to each other to the end, so then we'd probably interpret it the way they say, not the way they think. I really, since I was the only one talking about it, I guess this thinking applies to my discussion, because none of it was the way I discussed it. I never once said that I or the Club of the SDS minded the participation of constitutive peoples in the congregations. In any word, God Bog I said that! I've been giving some other reasons. Mr. Genjac mentioned Prnjavor. In the local elections in Prnjavor in 1996, there were four representatives from the Bosniak people. So there were four councilmen. In the 2004 local elections, no councilor from the Bosniak people was elected because they were not motivated to leave. Right? I say no one will ever be motivated to go out again. If he's minority there, there's no reason, and he'll totally, and it'll have a significant impact on demotivating his return. But of course, no one can be against democratically elected council members being members of the assembly, in accordance with the Electoral Law. So I absolutely didn't say it, and I'm asking my colleague and colleagues not to say it the way I didn't say it. I've been making my argument, Mr. Genjac said that argument doesn't fit, I respect it. He thinks it's not an adequate argument, but, Mr. Lozančić, my argument is not what you said. I'm afraid that's what you've purposely and foolishly interpreted her in such a way, and I wish she hadn't. I really wish it hadn't been for the malpractice of my discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16637	Dear Messenger Lozančić, answer; then the Genjac, the same answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16638	Dear colleague, here I am only now to look back on your exposure. And believe me, honestly... I didn't mean you at all, when I asked who could be bothered at all. I asked all of us that question. So I asked everyone a question, respecting your full right to think differently from me. But I'm not accusing you of what you think differently, if you think otherwise. It does, but I'm only answering you right now. So, in no word did I mention the Club of Representatives of the SDS or the Honorable Representative of Novaković. I've been thinking about everyone who's possibly bothered, and I've asked them who they can bother at all. There, it's... so, I'm sorry if you realized that it was... about your discussion. And I'm just going to make one brief comment on your replica yet. Be careful, you've got a nice thing to do with democratic standards today. And then today we say that people have no motive to go to elections in their community. Many did not have the motive to leave the area of their municipality, but at that time we did not refer to democratic standards. Niko of us. So, therefore, to respect the fact at which the moment or circumstances occurred, there is no one where he was, where he was born, where he denied it, etc. These are the elements we have to take care of. So if by any means I've brought you here into a position that you think I've been thinking about you, I haven't, and... I'm simply asking a question to all of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16639	The Honourable Messenger of the Genjac Replic, then Kalabić the Replic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16640	Oh, wait a minute,... you need to be careful with this election data. A colleague, Novaković, spoke earlier elections in which there was no censorship and elections in 2004 when it was a census of 3%. So, theoretically, what does that mean? 9% of one electoral body, one population can go to elections, three parties split, get below 3% and have no mandate. Something similar, not so drastic, happened in the last election in Prnjavor. There were voters, but one party got 2.33, one 2,37 etc. ...who didn't get a mandate. It's not about non-motivation. This way it can only motivate voters, and so, I mean, be careful with statistics.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16641	...from Prnjavor, honourable Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16642	Here's me from Prnjavor, and I remember something. And it's very important when we introduce some new standards to think a little bit about their practical application. Okay, morally, democratically, but we do sometimes play double games, so we're aware that I won't say we're cheating on the public, but we're aware that some things aren't right, but here we are, playing it a little bit like that. When we talk about these mandates, Mr. Genjac, in that situation, when one of the four SDA committees was elected, he only appeared once at a session in Prnjavor and never again, and the others were, watch out, SDP committees, and never asked him again why he never showed up again. Look, he had a mandate, he had everything. So this is also the fact that we need to talk about, given that there are very few of these mandates and that we care about these mandates being in office in some way. That was a fact and don't. That name is well known to you, the name of which is the name, respected both in Prnjavor and here in Sarajevo. But it didn't work. I don't know why, or I know, but it's not for bringing it out here right now. And in the second version, they won't, says counterpart Novaković, they didn't split up. The recommendation of the SDA is to vote for the head of the municipality, which has divided people from the other option. I, I guess they should have cared more about their mandate than some others who were fighting for their mandates, and that was a fact. Look, so now that we're putting into that plane all these challenges that these mandates are facing, then we have a problem. We have, say, a problem where voters vote in another area that might need to take care of that mandate. Are we going to guarantee them a mandate to ensure that they can participate in another political game, in which they might be less invited than in this municipality, in which I think they should vote. But we'll have a situation that we'll release them from their obligations here, and let them go somewhere where some political parties are more interested. 20 That's what I wanted, just notes. I'm not saying, when this is put into practice with some more facts, what it's going to look like. But I said we have to take care of it. The issue of the constitution of the people cannot be compared with the issue and relations to national minorities. It's a very difficult subject. I'm not sure this Constitutional Commission has the capacity to break it over its knees. It is a very difficult topic that BiH needs and needs to discuss both these solutions and possible new solutions, but in a different atmosphere, prepared with all possible arguments. I'm stressing again, I'm not sure that we can break that over our knees right now, because to be honest, this is also a question about the population list. One important thing that if we're already talking about this, and we want to put all this on the table, and I am going to put what Mr. Lozančić was saying, but I don't know how to avoid putting a population list in that context. And I guess that's the way to put it, and, let's say, what it looks like. I don't know, at least we have the right picture, with respect for the fact that it's made, by respecting the facts. So it's made, but at least we have it, it's what it is, so let's see. That's why I think we should talk about this, but, I mean, break it over our knees in one of these ways, with all these misunderstandings, I don't think it's real right now. And, when I answered, in order not to report for discussion, we warned on the Constitutional Legal Commission that the Interresor Working Group had given the result as it had and I think that the capacity of this House of Representatives is at this point that it was eventually looking for solutions to vote on proposals that the Interresor Working Group had come to, and I'm not sure that we have the capacity to go beyond that. The SNSD also warned on the Constitutional Commission, and today we are warning it. We don't think there's any capacity here to go beyond the proposal of the Interresor Working Group and, if we want, we need to talk about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16643	Dear second deputy chairman Beriz Belkić. Here you go. Discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16644	I'll be very brief. But I have to say that I'm in a dilemma whether it's a bigger reason to keep applying for replicas or to wait in line. So I'm one of those who repeated this amendment. There's already been a comment here about him. So my motives were next. Back in ten years, we had several hundred thousand people who voted, so our people who were outside, who voted in the BiH elections for our elections. We now have a few tens of thousands and this amendment has gone in the direction that organisational and technical assumptions are created so that our people show greater interest and that our people become involved in these processes in our country. So he refers to all citizens. It doesn't count how many, etc., those before I got some sort of persuasion, and so did Šefik. I hope I understand well that consultations have been made with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and communication with the Central Election Commission has not highlighted that it would be technically impossible to implement this. So here's why I repeated this amendment, and I think we should think about it. People from the Party for BiH have already talked about some amendments, and 21 Mr. Kadrić will certainly talk about the amendments he has submitted. I want to say something in general. So we have the next situation. The Šefik said Interresor Group 80 interventions, Constitutional Commission 13 amendments, Report etc. On the one hand, that's the fact we have. We have these deadlines that are spoken of until it's worth bringing changes and additions, to be true for this next election cycle and we have in some way dozens of amendments that we obviously don't have agreement on. That's what happened on the Constitutional Commission, because we were in a situation to repeat the amendments here. In my opinion, we should focus now and see what's acceptable. I don't think this effort should be thrown down the water, so to speak. Yet 80 law interventions were, yet the Constitutional Commission did something and it seems to me that we can't be satisfied with what we've been doing so far. Of course, we all got certain initiatives, certain demands, and as far as I'm concerned, I'd just insist that we treat Srebrenica the way we treat it humanly. Here, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16645	Thank you. The following has been signed up by honourable MP Kadrić, so Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16646	I thank you, Chairman. I'll do it very briefly. Indeed, I have renewed an amendment in which I seek to resolve this issue, the current question of fullness in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Given that the current National Assembly now has 81 MPs, and according to the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, there should be 83 MPs in the National Assembly and, by this amendment, we, me and Sadik Ahmetović, want to complete the MPs in the National Assembly and thus resolve the issue. Therefore, I really believe that this is acceptable, that this issue is currently being resolved, and this amendment has also received general agreement, support and in the Central Election Commission. And, therefore, I expect this amendment to be accepted during the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16647	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16648	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, there is no Mr. Kalabić, I wanted to ask him, which is not... in Prijedor to be replaced. So, it would have been better if he hadn't come, probably because there was no replacement, since he hadn't been to the assembly for two or three years. 22 But here, I will look back on these amendments that I have renewed in this procedure and most colleagues here today have talked about the importance that the constituent nations in BiH have a certain percentage in the congregations or councils. That's what Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Lozančić were talking about, and here I would perhaps today introduce an unconstitutional category of people, and these are the exiles, as you would like to call them, and I would like to allow these people to choose in a certain way to give them an opportunity, from a new distance. So 12 or 13 years after the war in BiH, I believe it's '95. The years and elections that followed after any time, and I believe that this time, which is before us today, is the time of BiH in which it is committed to going to the EU, to adopt European standards, and above all, human rights standards and, with that in mind, I have made an amendment that the exiles throughout BiH have the right or can be determined to vote in favour of the municipality from which they were expelled in '91. A year. My second amendment, I do not know, therefore, whether there is a need to elaborate it here in this House, given that many important world institutions have spoken a lot about Srebrenica in the past 13 years and talked about it within BiH and talked about it and the International Court of Justice in The Hague and, in this regard, I would like to call on this Parliament to still rise from one political, ethnic, however you will, shackles, to try to think today or tomorrow, eventually, when we vote, to provide space, where genocide was committed, that regardless of, therefore, regardless of the nationality that people have, that citizens have the right to vote on the '91 census. A year. I invite you to accept these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16649	Thank you. I don't have any more applications for discussion. Dear Ambassador Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16650	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I have renewed the amendment relating to Article 16 of the Law, where these amendments and the amendments to the laws provide for changing the way members of the electoral committees are appointed, i.e. to return to the state that was before 2001, when members of the electoral committee appointed municipal election committees, precisely, which was not the best solution, was in the past law and made an amendment and given the possibility that political entities could participate in the process of controlling the electoral process and thus ensure both a transparent and quality vote and a quality complete election process. For this reason, I propose that this amendment be adopted because it is similarly regulated in most democratic countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16651	Thank you. Here is Ambassador Džaferović in front of the promoter at the end. Here you go. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16652	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I don't think it would be fair to say no to the next thing, and it concerns the Central Election Commission of BiH and their contribution and work on these changes. A rapporteur under this law, I will say for all the laws coming to say this, whether, was Mr Arnautović Suad, a member of the Central Election Commission, and the chairman of the Central Election Commission at the time was Mr Stjepan Mikić. They are present here and Mr. Petrić and I welcome them and I want to say that, therefore, a member of the Central Election Commission, I want to point out their importance. In fact, their role and their analysis are crucial. True, we cut each hair into a thousand pieces, you know that, in a group, but it came from them, because they apply the BiH Election Law. Here I need to say, because I believe that the Central Election Commission in the Bosnian Herzegovina society should be on one higher level and should rise to one higher level than this level that we now have. We also have some laws that will come and concern, among other things, and it is treated that way, but today is the most solemn moment when what they have been doing for two years, and brought to us in the Interresor Working Group, is being considered, and here, in the name of the Interresor Working Group, I thank the entire Central Election Commission, no matter how expensive this will all be and what the result will be, already has the result, and, of course, the people who were from the Election Commission, members of the Interresor Working Group and the rapporteurs for these laws. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16653	Thank you. Is there a need for any of the Electoral Commission to speak? Mr. Suad Arnautović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16654	Mr. Chairman, distinguished members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, I would first of all like to thank you for the opportunity to address this high house. What I mean is, I'm a little excited because these last words of praise to Mr. Džaferović have hit us all so little together and made us happy. We don't usually get any commendation because the job we do is to investigate you, elected MPs, appointed advisors, punish those who break the law, and that job is not cute at all, believe me. So we haven't learned to boast, we've learned to be called, to be called nationalists, criminals, thieves, those who are extended hands of national or other parties of nationalists, etc. and very, very rarely we are in a position to be commended, except for this tall home which has already done so twice the last time we consider our annual reports. In that name, I really want to thank you as MPs. As far as this election law is concerned, everything has already been said. As the Central Election Commission, therefore, our powers stem from the powers of this high house, or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. What the BiH Parliamentary Assembly finds in its resolution, the Central 24 electoral commission will realise. So, for us, there will be no, so to speak, from a technical point of view, impossible solutions as set out in this Parliamentary Assembly. In this regard, we made our contribution, because we saw that the adoption of amendments and additions to the Election Law, when it comes to national minorities, was a solution that is practically inconclusive. That's why we initiated these changes, insisted on it. We have now come to such a solution that enables indeed in municipal councils, or municipalities to be represented in a fair and democratic way by elected representatives of national minorities. On other issues, we have grouped all these issues into four groups during our work in the Interresor Working Group, including the Constitutional and Legal Commission. So amendments that are acceptable, amendments that are not acceptable, amendments that are partly acceptable and can be modified, and amendments or proposals that are exclusively political. As an independent body, we do not want to engage in political debates, and we will not declare amendments that have a political character. We can talk about these amendments which, if you insist, are of a technical nature, which are, to put it that way, in that part of the operation. That's it. My request would be to adopt what has been established within the framework of the Interresor Working Group and the Constitutional Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16655	Thank you. Before I conclude the debate on this item of the agenda, given that there are no more applications for discussion, I would ask the proposings to take advantage of today's day and tomorrow together with the Central Election Commission, until there is a statement in accordance with the amendments and the whole of this law, to try to find a coherent position on what you said and with this discussion that was here. I think it would help us plead at the session on the law itself, and there are a number of amendments. Moving to the second item of the agenda: Ad2. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) The proposal for this law was adopted at the 20th session in the first reading. The relevant Constitutional and Legal Commission submitted the report on 27 February. As you have seen, the Commission adopted the proposal for a law in the proposed text. Dear MP Sadik Ahmetović delivered two amendments in the plenary phase that he wants to defend again. I'm opening a debate on this law and given... Dear Ambassador Belkić. Here you go. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16657	Here I apologize, Mr Ahmetović. I kind of took the right to comment on this amendment, for the simple reason that, if you remember, when we had this law in our first reading, I mentioned that we have a series of initiatives, i.e. interventions, complaints, so to speak, from an NGO sector that I don't think is negligible. So, they pointed to some changes in the amendments and additions of this law are intruding, so to speak, in the independence of these organisations, say, the union, the employers' association, etc. in a way that requires financial statements from them, etc. And in that sense, Mr Sadik Ahmetović, from the position of the President of the Commission, the relevant commission, made that amendment and, to tell you the truth, I was surprised, because here, in some ways, when we discussed it in the first reading, or I misread it, had the feeling that we were ready... to follow the lead of the NGO sector, i.e. warnings. I'd like to ask you, I've spoken to the Resort Ministry, of course, etc. which practically came out with the following attitude: if these amendments are accepted, what will remain practically from changes and additions? So the question remains: In what way is the abuse of the name BiH in name controlled? But it is certain that we will not be able to do so by submitting financial reports, etc. It will also be a security burden for the Ministry of Justice, which should then be financial experts, etc. So I, to tell you the truth, am close to supporting this amendment, so that it remains what remains, and if this amendment was not accepted, we in the BiH Party would vote against the amendment and the supplement. Then let the solution that is now in place, with certainty, remain in the ministry's obligation to consider how to protect the use of BiH's name.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16658	First came the honourable MP Dolić, and then the honourable MP, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16659	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, no doubt, we have a strange bill in front of us. To be honest, not after any more attempts, I have not come up with a rational reason to be run by the legislator of this law for one such legal proposal. I wish the bill promoter in the reasons for passing such a law had been a little more concrete and had cited analytical data or offered an analysis of the possible abuses of the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of BiH. I think BiH is very concerned about promoting the name of BiH, and it seems that this law is not only on that background, but rather in this way limiting the use of the name BiH directly affects and violates the fundamental human rights of citizens. Democracy is now increasing its scope and affecting all segments of human life and, as much as we may mind, the name BiH is being used and used where it does not sound promotional. Does this mean that tomorrow's association of alcoholics, drug addicts or homosexuals, along with their potential associations, will not be able to use the name BiH? It may not be nice for the ear and the eyes but 26 we must accept it as democratic achievements and tomorrow's reality. In particular, Article 4 relating to Article 8 is affected by the restriction of human rights consumption. Election law. This is really too high, not democratic and irrational, not to use any other term. Please, let's imagine that all legal persons who use the name BiH make reports on their work every year and describe in detail the activity they have performed and activities in the territory of all BiH. How many reports would that be, how long would it take for them to write and read these reports, and how much would subjectivism be involved in that? Does this mean that such reports should also be written by the authorities of the BiH state institution and a number of other issues raised in this way? So I remain with the view that this law is not only excessive but also harmful to democratic processes and human rights in BiH. Therefore, this law does not enjoy my support and I will not personally support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16660	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16661	My colleagues and colleagues, there is a need for the state to take care of how its name is used! And if anyone asks what the legion is or what the meaning of this law is, then it's contained in it. And, therefore, there is a need to, in addition to the Law on Associations and Foundations that we have brought here and which applies to those who will have the name BiH with one special norm, to regulate the relationship between the state and whoever uses its name. And, therefore, there is no dilemma that this law, in addition to the existing law, is necessary, but it seems to me that some errors have been made in the bill of law which is precisely the relationship between the state and that association, or the foundation, or organisation bearing a state name. These errors relate, first of all, to Article 13's injury. European Conventions on Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms. And we, in the Constitutional Commission, have taken great care of this issue, because we have also been alerted by international institutions present in BiH and, among other things, by the implementation of international legal acts, including the European Convention. Of course, the idea came from domestic organisations, the Helsinki Committee, trade unions, so those who bear the name of BiH in their name, and this was given due attention and the Constitutional Commission did not accept the amendments tabled by Mr Ahmetović, which are in the wake of the repair of these mistakes. I belong to the order of those who think differently. But the Constitutional Commission decided most of the votes as it had decided, and I don't think it's a good idea to stay in this text, because it doesn't practically change anything and it stands in violation of the European Convention. It will be difficult to endure a test and any serious criticism if it is questioned anywhere. 27 And for this reason, here I appeal now to the House of Representatives to reconsider these amendments, because they have no other background, except the intention of eradicating his opposition to Article 13. European Conventions on Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms. That is why it would be good if this House adopted amendments and then passed the law. I'm saying, this is what we're divided into in the Constitutional Commission. I belong to a minority. Most of them decided the way she decided and the report was delivered to the House. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16662	Thank you. Was it Novaković's replica or the debate? So, the replica was reported by distinguished representative Ekrem Ajanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16663	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, nothing is undemocratic if the abuse of the name BiH is banned. And no one can ever be a gay BiH. He could be a homosexual, an alcoholic, or he could be a drug addict in BiH. And that's a huge difference. That's one difference... that doesn't cost the name BiH. If someone wants to maintain an association that will be called BiH alcoholics, I am absolutely against it, that must be done and that cannot be done, such names cannot... register. Does anyone say it's democracy or not democracy, the one who talks about democracy must know the language of Bosnian, Serbian or Croatian or Yugoslav and the structure of words, so that he can speak certain things. Please, do you have anywhere to call... the Homosexuals Association of the United States? There are homosexuals in the United States or I don't know in Germany, etc. and let's not caricate things for the sake of democracy or something to play the honorary name of BiH, which is very, very, no one has grown to the heart, but some people have grown very much. I've grown very close to it and I've known since it's been used and, I mean, I'll always vote against it. And I was against it on the Commission, because certain controls have to be carried out. We didn't say on the Constitutional Commission that those reports should be submitted on financial resources, and that would be stupid. They are free, they can file a report to someone else but they must report on the use of the name BiH, because some... abuse it. And this one now, an MP who used to speak, he abused the name BiH, believing that in BiH all homosexuals, everyone, if you listen to him, were all alcoholics, that they were all junkies because they were... alcoholics in BiH. It means we're... alcoholics, all of us. And let me tell you,... 90% of people, I'm not gonna say 99%, not in Bosnia homosexuals, not being junkies, not being alcoholics, not being any other stuff. Thank you very much. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16664	I thank the honourable representative. Replica reply: Honored representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16665	I'm nowhere near... what my colleague said... I don't think I need a translator for what I said. Of course,... I've fenced myself that some things will be there...will not be pleasant for our ears or for our eyes etc. But democracy goes that way, too. I'm not sure that this is how we propose we can protect the name of BiH. That's what I was talking about. And that this is a restriction of rights, not a protection of the name of BiH. And this is where the reports are sought. Imagine what a bunch of reports that is. We do not read more important reports that we should read, let alone read reports of this type and then subjectively assess whether this one is in accordance with the law or not. And what is very important, which would make it more clear to all of us here if, with this law, we had received some kind of analysis of the violation of the Law on the Use of the Name of BiH. But we're talking about something in the fog, and I'm not sure that in this way we can protect the name of BiH, as we would like.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16666	Thank you. Next for discussion: Honorable Ambassador Novaković, pa Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16667	Well, you see, I'm closer... to the previous replica of my colleagues, since if we look at Article 1 of this law, then he clearly says when a registration authority can give someone the right to use the name BiH. And then he said: All legal persons who in their name want to use the name BiH can exercise the right under the following conditions, now that I am not reading these three attitudes that talk about these conditions. For me, Article 4 implies precisely the control of the application of these three positions. So, does anyone use a name, which uses the name BiH, performs activities in the territory of the whole of BiH, it was one of the conditions that could be registered. Or does the area of this activity refer to the territory of the whole of BiH? Then, I don't know, either, it can determine that it promotes BiH's interests and, in the end, that it is not contrary to the interests of the internal and international legal order. There is no mechanism today that will warn that someone who once received this name does not use it like this or does not meet the conditions he has met. I didn't understand, although it might have been different to formulate Article 4, but I didn't realize that there was someone here to report on their work, but a report on work, and a report on these three attitudes. And that makes it perfectly logical for me to remain this Article 4 or, eventually, – if there is some uncertainty, so it becomes the impression that he is seeking too broad clarification and reporting – then to reform it in a way that this clarification applies in the way it is registered, that is, to the conditions of registration. 29 For this reason, I voted against this amendment on the Commission, and today I will vote against it, because I do not think it violates the Convention on Human Rights. It is clearly stated here in the Convention itself, therefore, that this right, for this right, cannot be established by any organization other than that, so there is now, well, among other things, to protect the rights and freedoms of others. So, this control and disabling abuse protects the rights of those who do not abuse this name BiH and I really think that we are having an unnecessary problem, although, I repeat, it may have been happier to make a formulation on Article 4, i.e. amendments to Article 8.a). Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16668	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Prodanović. Here you go. You're giving up. Dear Ambassador Ahmetović. He was the only one who had two amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16669	Maybe on this discussion of Mr. Novaković. So, that the Convention says this: each person has the right to freedom of peaceful gathering, to freedom of association with another, including the right to establish a union and join in it in order to protect his interests. Two: No restrictions will be imposed for the exercise of these rights, other than those prescribed by law and necessary in a democratic society, in the interest of national security or public security, in order to prevent riots or crime, to protect health or morals, or to protect the rights and freedoms of others. This article does not prevent the legal restriction of the exercise of these rights to members of the Armed Forces, the police or the state administration. So, we got interventions -- just another sentence -- we got interventions from NGOs dealing with human rights in BiH and who have given us some attention that we are still breaking this convention and, in this respect, I have renewed this amendment and I think it would be good for this Parliament to respect this amendment and thus get out of this situation, so that we don't have, that we might not come into some other situation if we don't install this amendment in the original text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16670	Thank you. I don't see any more reports for discussion. Does anyone from the Department of Justice have a need to explain? There isn't. Thank you. Moving to the third item of the agenda: Add.3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Participation of Members of the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, police officers, civil servants and other employees in peace support operations and other activities abroad (proposer: Council of Ministers), with Joint Defence and Security Commission Report 30 At the 20th session, we adopted the bill from this point in our first reading. On 4 March, we received a negative report from the Joint Commission on Defence and Security. So we have a situation here to discuss a Commission report that's negative. I'm opening a debate. Dear Ambassador Džaferović, then Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16672	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, so this is exactly what you said about the negative report... The Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of our Parliament. The bottom line is next. So, the report is negative because no amendment has been adopted on the Commission asking to delete from the law what the law is written for, which is that BiH's peacekeeping missions abroad, other than the active military system, can also be part of the reserve composition. So, you're looking to delete that provision. I don't think it's right for the Council of Ministers to propose a council of ministers to have a reason, and the Ministry of Defense, which probably initiated that change provision, has reasons why the reserve composition is involved here and I think we should maintain that original rule of law solution. This means today to vote against the Joint Defence Commission's report and return this law to it for review. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16673	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16674	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I have the opposite opinion of Mr. Džaferović, my colleague and colleague from the Commission. And there we tried that thought to bring it together. And the reason for my opposite opinion and those who voted against the amendment and the addition of this law is next. Here's what you see and in the light of this commission which is why the law has been rejected, or has not passed is the next one. The defence ministry has pointed out on several occasions the problem of default and not only the problem but as a possible... the reality of the Ministry of Defence, and there are no objective reasons for this, except to say that there is no great interest in establishing a working relationship in the Ministry of Defence, or in the Armed Forces of BiH. I think it's Miss Deputy Minister and I and some of them, and then we exchanged opinions about it. And then the question is, is that really what it is? If there were any competitions published, if there was any evidence that the competition was being published without certain people reporting for those jobs, which I can't see for myself. And our guess is that by adopting this law, it would offer this state of affairs that the Ministry of Defense and the Armed Forces would not be filled in with an estimated number of people, which is 31 priorities to fill... The defence ministry is working better to make the Armed Forces work better, and thus to reduce the number of BiH employees. Another reason is that this law would require additional means to train these reserve people who would report for additional equipment and additional engagement, which would take place on these missions. That's why we think it may be unnecessary to pass this law for now, at this point, and that in some foreseeable time, if it turns out to be a shortage or surplus of people or workers or officers or members of the Armed Forces who could go into these peacekeeping missions, then here's what we can do is make one of these amendments and supplementing this law. That was the basic reason why we, who voted on this committee, voted as it is in this commission's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16675	Thank you. If there are no more reports, given that we will declare this law, in accordance with paragraph 112, and if we return this report to the Commission, it would be good to consider the time we will give to the Commission to re-read. That could be seven days, so we could figure it out at that agenda point. Moving to point four: Add.4. Proposal for a framework law on the protection and rescue of people and material goods from natural and other accidents in BiH (first reading) On 25 February, the Council of Ministers submitted the bill to the procedure. You received your opinion on constitutional law on 14 March 2008, the Commission's opinion on the principles of 13 March 2008. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16677	There are several points today that concern this Constitutional Commission and the Commission for Defence and Security, so I am standing up and talking by that principle. So it is an unusually important law for all of us in this country, a law that allows BiH to move faster towards these Euro-Atlantic integrations and legislation that allows for better use of the resources that BiH has in the fight against these natural disasters and natural disasters. The law is therefore in conformity at all levels. There are certain remarks coming from the Federation of BiH entity but not from the working group, not from the government, at least so far it has not arrived, but from some... institutions, but regardless, therefore, I find this very important, very important 32 law that introduces order in this area and that allows our country to deal with elementary disasters in a more efficient way. That is why I propose that this law be adopted today in the first reading, that we go to the commission and adopt it as a whole as a law of this House and this Parliament. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16678	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Alajbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16679	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to actually first read this proposal for a framework law on the protection and rescue of people and material goods from natural and other accidents in BiH to take advantage of is an opportunity to thank the College of the House of Representatives for the opportunity to promote the BiH Donor Network in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's hall today. At the same time, I would like to thank all the MPs and MPs who signed the donor card today and those who are not, of course, asking that after reading what is in our pamphlet and signing the donor card, and calling for Article 3 (2) of this law to say that all natural and legal persons in BiH are obliged to carry out personal, mutual protection, to provide assistance and to save human lives, material and other goods based on personal consciousness, conscience, relevant regulations and in accordance with their capabilities and abilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16680	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the discussion. Moving to the fifth item of the agenda: Add.5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Criminal Procedure Act (first reading) On 26 February, the Council of Ministers delivered the bill from this point to the procedure. The Constitutional Commission delivered its Opinion on the constitutional basis as well as the principles of the draft law on 14 March 2008. I'm opening a debate on principles, since the law is in the first reading. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16682	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, it is a very important law for every country that regulates the matter of criminal proceedings or proceedings in criminal matters before the Court of Justice of BiH, and it will be based on him to handle it, therefore, this law: harmonised and criminal proceedings in all other courts in BiH. So, an unusually important law for every country. This law is the result – as much as I have been informed by the Ministry of the Constitutional Legal Commission, namely how much we have been informed on the Constitutional and Legal Commission – the result of the work of the task force that has been monitoring the application of new criminal legislation in BiH since 2003, including these numerous interventions to criminal proceedings in BiH. In a concrete case, the BiH Criminal Procedure Act is the consequence of what has been seen in practice as a need to change and to be regulated in a different way in this law. I think we should support the principles of this law today. That the law contains the largest number of solutions to be accepted, which can withstand any criticism. It contains some solutions that we will have to discuss professionally and see where we are when these things are concerned. I'm not going to talk about them in particular today, I'm just going to point out that some of the questions that exist, first of all, can count two or three, whether, but it's very important to question the validity of the evidence that is being obtained in the investigation phase and the relationship further in the court of evidence, how they will be evaluated and appreciated, to see how these solutions are treated, the reasons for determining detention, etc., that I don't talk any further. What I'm trying to say is that today, or tomorrow, when we vote on this law, when we accept it in the first reading, this house also expresses the commitment expressed by the Constitutional Commission to conduct a kind of public expert debate until the second reading. So we have no other term than a public debate, but let it be known that it should be a professional public debate here at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to which representatives of the courts would be invited, prosecutors from BiH, people who apply, of course, the Ministry of Justice and all those related to this law. People who apply this law, to hear their opinions, their suggestions and, perhaps, when it comes to these laws,... introduce a new practice... in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH when adopting these laws, so that for you, the chairman, or for our Madam Secretary, that he may record, when you propose, is this also the conclusion that this matter stands: Yes, the House considers that a public debate should be held on this law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16683	Thank you. I have already noted that after voting on the law in the first reading, the House has determined to open a public debate on this law. Dear Ambassador Novaković had a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16684	Thank you very much. 34 I'll also be very brief. In fact, at the Commission's session, among other things, we received information that this law is making some changes in the field of human rights, namely that more protection of human rights is provided for by some of the solutions in this law. I then asked the promoters: Does this law protect the rights of those who are guilty or those who are damaged? I got an answer that he's protecting more of the defendant's rights. Otherwise, I believe that these rights are well protected, possibly too protected in this country, which shows also the number of crimes defined by the BiH Criminal Law. With that in mind, I would also like to announce amendments, meaning which in this area will aim...for some change in the section relating to the protection of human rights, so not only the guilty but also those who are damaged, and which are not covered by these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16685	Dear second deputy chairman, Mr. Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16686	I just wanted to welcome and support the definition of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which Mr. Džaferović has now presented for a simple reason, as far as it seems to be about amendments and additions, etc., seems to me like a layman to be about very important issues. I would just ask and remind myself... that the representatives of the Ministry of Justice here who are aware that, as we often do, we have received a letter from a high representative, or a letter from the OHR, which warns us of some solutions in the proposed changes and supplements that are not in line, are in line, etc. So, you have the OSCE observations there, they have the observations mentioned in the Special Report of the Ombudsman, the objections made to OHR by OHR, and I ask you to invite all these factors, therefore, to this public debate, of course, with our Ministry of Justice, and when we return here to have the cleared...laws, cleared dilemmas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16687	Thank you. If there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's official vote The promoter is MP Adem Huskić, the law is in first reading. On 11 February 2008, the honourable MP delivered the bill from this point to the procedure. The law shall be considered 35 by a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. At the 21st session, Dom adopted a request for a procedure, and the Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis on 18 February 2008 as well as on the principles of the proposed law. I am opening a debate in the first reading, noting that both the Council of Ministers and our Directorate for European Integration will be needed to determine this. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16689	Thank you. I don't think there's much to talk about this law, but here's the line, since I'm a pronoun, let me say that...... let me take this, let me say a few words. The Constitutional Commission considered this law in its first reading, supporting the principles unanimously. There are conclusions and I don't think there's any need to explain anything further, you've well explained. Here I expect the House will support the principles of this law in its first reading and let it go into further procedure and, I mean, there's no reason not to adopt the law, in my opinion, in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16690	Dear Ambassador Džaferović, and Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16691	Fellow Members and colleagues, therefore, should support the idea that what comes out as an official voice from this country is available to the widest possible number of people and should support the idea that this should be thrown out on, as it is said, on the use of the Internet. And if it wasn't for the money, this is where the state should find the money for this, and for this, there's money. So, "The Official Messenger of BiH" is a company owned by this country and, therefore, what is needed to implement this idea, many other countries have, and in this is the value of this initiative that Mr Huskić was talking about, therefore, his initiatives. It is necessary to hold a meeting of the Council of Ministers, the "Official Messenger" and the...proposer of this law until the second reading. And then to come up with a solution, because this thing has to be financially rounded up, because we want it to be on the Internet, that it's available, and we don't want "the official messenger of BiH" to fail. That's why, therefore, it takes this action and I'm asking you to, I think the Constitutional Commission has done it in some way in its conclusion but, if it isn't, I can't remember all these details now to record it as the conclusion of this home, with a vote. So, before the second reading, this matter must be clarified and the Council of Ministers must be involved in this project, as well as "The Official Messenger of BiH". That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16692	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Nanić, here you go, then Novaković. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16693	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I, with the support of these words of the promoter, want to make three dilemmas here and be familiar with them. What I see in this matter is, one part is Mr. Džaferović said: What is the position of the Public Enterprise, which is the founder of BiH on this issue? It doesn't mean what the attitude is about, whether they agree, whether there are any objections, whether or not they are asked whether they are asked, whether they are not asked etc. I think that's what we should do. Next, it states here that countries in the environment, in an explanation, say there is free of charge to have this information available. I'm, I'm going to be honest, not at this very last time we're talking about this law, but I've been trying through Croatian, as their official, national property is called, etc., and often you come... that certain information is protected, that you must be a subscriber and that you must... or have some number, maybe that number is related to money to be subscribers etc. So I'd like to have these exact countries where it's absolutely free of charge for all users, so for all the information, whether or not it is, it means that we have that information in the environment. Next, which is the thing I would like to share, means my dilemmas, is the date of application of the law, since here, it says, eight days from the day of publication and since both this company and this company probably have their own financial plans for this year, so that if the application affects their incomes or... expenditures etc. Yes, and that thing is incorporated into this law, that is, to make it clear. And of course, what Mr. Džaferović certainly said about the talks at the Council of Ministers and others. So, these dilemmas to be removed from me, until the second reading, we have that information.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16694	Thank you. I know, I just want to let you know that we've instructed... to determine the institutions that are needed when the motionary is MP, but until today we haven't received those answers, so we're going to re-emerge those institutions. There is no... answer to the request of the MPs. Dear Ambassador Novaković: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16695	You see, I would like to replicate the proposal for this law to be considered at the Council of Ministers to be attended by representatives of the Public Enterprise "The Official Messenger". In fact, I'm not sure that's how we always do it when we have these amendments to the laws or draft laws by the MPs. Also, I would like to remind you that the last few years here in Parliament have not accepted the report on the work of the Public Enterprise "The Official Messenger". We had significant objections last time we discussed that report. We never received an answer to these remarks, and we never put that report back on the agenda because we did not get an answer to the comments. As taught in this experience, they haven't even delivered a report for the past year, I guess they realize that, since it hasn't been the past few years, they don't have to deliver it anymore. 37 I think it's one of the enterprises, public enterprises that... in this House most rarely received support for their work, or I'm sure that in fact, I'm sure that it was not one but the most rarely supported for its work. I'm not about to fail the Public Enterprise "The Official Messenger", but I'm not about to function in the way it works, in a way that nobody interferes in their work, and I have to say that, when we looked at there a report on the number of employees, and I don't know either, then you could get the impression that many of them don't interfere with their work, how many employees were there and how they treated the conclusions of this home here. I am in favour of preserving this company, I am in favour of being given a report in which way and who has established the prices of their services, I am in order to see how correct they are to the users of the services, but I am not in a position to force, as we once did, all that they must use the services of the "Official Messenger". I think that this idea proposed by a colleague, so that this "Official Messenger" can, that is, be published on the Internet, a very good idea, and there are ways, after all, and that this site is protected and charged, so as to ensure the conditions for survival of this institution. But I repeat, the way it is now organized, with the number of workers working now, with the way it's working now, with the relationship to this Parliament, I'm not in favour of protecting it like that... just because it's a public enterprise. Here, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16696	Dear Ambassador Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16697	kolega Novaković, there was really no need for... this replica or, as it is said, or by correcting the wrong assumption, because, by my judgment, this was not a correction of the wrong allegation, this, in my opinion, was more of a distortion of the right allegation, so then the speech after the distortion of the true allegation. You should have followed what I was saying. So it's clear to me that they won't sit there these from... BiH's "officer official" with the Council of Ministers and with Huskić and then make a decision with him. The Council of Ministers should give its opinion as it states in the position of the Constitutional Legal Commission and should, of course, obtain the position of "the Official Messenger", because this concerns them. And that's what it says in this report, and that's all I wanted to say. I had no intention of opening these topics to Mr. Novakvić. A way of doing business? We've had these reports, we know what it's called, everything here in Parliament, and we know who's dealing with it. But to this law, if we want to realize this idea, we will not be able to come without the opinion of the Council of Ministers and, of course, without the opinion of those to whom this is concerned, and we need that thing. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16698	Thank you. Replica? It's no one else! Dear Ambassador Okolić. It's a replica, isn't it? 38
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16699	No, the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16700	Discussion! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16701	I think that this matter is well-opened around this "Official Messenger" and that it should be released in this first reading, and the amendments can be arranged so that this company does not fail, which is not a wish, I do not believe, at least that anyone's wish is here. So it's not our wish to fail. But we need some things to put in place already. There are many objections from the field from the users of the "Official Messenger" and from those who are forced to use the "Official Messenger" on some of the "Official Messenger" procedures. Then you heard about the report, you heard about... that we don't have any real information about financial reports, or the number of employees, etc. Furthermore, what still made me feel that something about this should be done so that they too would be more careful and to realize that someone discussed them and that they had to stick to some rules, that they couldn't be an institution for themselves, that extremely good sources of income had, that they couldn't handle anyone's accounts. I was offered this when I asked the official messenger six or seven months ago to make sure that, on the basis of the comments made by the "Official Messenger" user, that the ads and notifications were chronologically agreed on in two ways, as we ask them, or on one or on the other, as it is easier. It's simply responsible that he can't, that it's only possible the way they're doing it right now. I don't think it's just that possible and I think that this initiative to amend and supplement the Law on the "Official Messenger" will come up with some solutions that are appropriate for them and for us. And that's why I support this first reading, and we'll see through the amendments, and I will announce an amendment in which I will protect that this house will certainly not fail, that there is something to do about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16702	Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16703	It's not a replica. Bog, save it! You see, as far as I know, we in Parliament were trying more to get the official messenger's report and, whenever they delivered the report, I have to say that he was positive in a financial sense. There were these problems: who owns, who sets, as he sets, these relations that have not been defined, and that should be defined. But I don't think it's the law. This law had only one sentence – to transfer the actual official messenger to the Internet. And I think it's a fantastic thing and, Božiji's people, today, when you want to print an official messenger, everything on the computer, hard drive, and only now that hard drive needs to be moved. I think that here the Council of Ministers needs to sit down to explain some things, with a note that this list, the Official Messenger, can be even more profitable, if it is known that part: so you can charge that information, and the other part to...,... and to solve these issues, and that 39 absolutely agrees. Not through amendments, but simply to launch some initiative in an organisational sense. I don't know how to do that, but in this sense, it simply defines exactly who's in charge, who's in charge, who's in line, because, as far as I know, we've never done a report on the situation in "The Official Messenger," and it's always been positive. That's interesting. Simply, these are issues that this Parliament should discuss, so it seems to me that the Council of Ministers with the representatives of the Official Messenger should define and make a proposal to address these issues, which are now being imposed here by us MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16704	Dear Ambassador Erić: Replica. No smaller law, no more discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16705	Well, nothing. I'm just a replica of my colleague Bešlagić. It's true that we don't have reports the way they're supposed to be. So, the Finance Commission has discussed it on several occasions and audit reports, so all these reports were negative and that's why I've replicated it and we need to take care of it and see how to prevent it. So, the reports are all negative and our commission tried to solve it on a few occasions, but it didn't solve it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16706	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković is a discussion. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16707	So you see, what a colleague of yours has said to whom you are replicating, I have no one to replicate, so I will discuss. In fact, I want to go very briefly into two sentences just to get to know the Dom with the fact, let's say, I'm talking about this concern, that, as far as I have information, "The Official Messenger" planned 10 million marks this year to build a new building, for the headquarters of "The Official Messenger". Look, it's a serious number, and we're here today sharing concerns about their fate. So, I propose that the House today draw one conclusion which requires the Parliamentary Assembly from the Public Undertaking "The Official Messenger" to deliver a report for 2007 and the public enterprise budget as well as a work plan for 2008. I haven't seen this report here, is that right, the audit report and it's negative, which in itself points to the need for one such conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16708	We vote after the law, right? We still have reports for this discussion. Dear Ambassador Jašarević and we are no longer registered. Here you go. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16709	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the key problem we need to consider today is Article 1 and Article 2. The Law on the Official Journal of BiH. So let me read: this law regulates the way the laws, other regulations, general and other acts of the BiH body are published in the official BiH report. The name of the BiH official vote is "The Official Messenger of BiH". Therefore, the laws and all of this listed in Article 5 are prescribed to be published in the official BiH vote, which is called "the Official Messenger of BiH". So, officially only the newspaper, the written newspaper, is a way of publishing according to what our law says. The idea that the text of these public documents is published on the Internet is what the Proposer and Mr Džaferović spoke about and others, that as many people as possible in BiH and outside BiH are familiar with the BiH legislation, where the "Official Messenger" under this law does not take responsibility for the accuracy of the published text on the internet, or on that page, if it is not prescribed by this law. In view of the experience of this Parliament that the amendment can only respond to a law that is in the procedure, we are therefore not able to do so in this step except to support this idea, which is basically a good, advanced idea or to ask for some special circumstances, and to solve the question: Is publication on the Internet and an official act, therefore, from which the texts of the laws and any other acts can be taken? It is one, please, or it is informative, to inform the public about what this BiH legislation is, that is one problem. Another problem is advertising in the "Official Messenger" which is not even prescribed in this law. And that is, according to some people, a more important source of income to the “officer. ” I'm not sure that at this stage we have the capacity to and that part, because this law can be amended to only be published on the website of Article 5, so this legislation,... the law, and that the advertising part is still read only from the written text. What Mr. Nanić was talking about, so Croatia's laws are a limitless approach, in that second part of advertising there are certain barriers. So it's because of what everyone wants to have, so sources of income. That's why I think it is a very important financial elaborate of this law. If it only goes to the law and leaves the advertising part to the Official Journal, then it is one math, one bill, and a confirmation that no funds from the budget are affected. And secondly, if everything goes online, then it must be counted on that certain funds may have to be provided from the Budget of BiH. And I have to say this eventually. In a bid to encourage and improve the Public Procurement Sector, EU countries are funding public procurement contracts that are the subject of public procurement. It's just that it has to be aware that these are higher-value contracts. There the laws didn't cover all the contracts that we cheated on when we passed the law, so let me say, from very low amounts of 30 and 60 grand we covered it. There's a higher limit. But in order to improve the Public Procurement Sector, then the European Commission is encouraging and funding this free advertising. So that's why I point out that this is a small procedure, but we need to see how far the idea can go in this step so that no empty space can be made and see if we can do it in one step or if it still has to be done in more steps. 41 And finally let me plead. I very much support that BiH laws and other acts are on the websites to get people to know about the laws in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16710	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Joint Commission report on the alignment of the text of the Law on the Internal Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina I remind you that after this law was passed in homes in different texts, the Joint Commission of both homes was formed to bring the same text into line. We received the Joint Commission's report on February 21st. The Commission, as you have seen in the Report, has reached agreement on the same text, by adopting two amendments that have been kept in the Report. I am opening a debate and asking the MPs: Is it necessary to discuss the Joint Commission Report that has reached agreement? If no one's answering for a hearing, I'm closing the argument. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda: Ad. 8. BiH presidency's decision to identify candidates in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces for confirmation
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16713	The Honorable President, Dr. Milorad Živković, has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16714	Thank you. As you have seen, in the Report our commission unanimously supported these proposals and I believe that it worked in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with the materials they received. But with 42, since there's a representative and the Department of Defense here, right, I want to clarify certain positions for all of us. I'd like to ask a few questions, which may come from an indeterminate defense law where we don't know what happens when a person in a general position spends four years. Are they placed in the general position on the principle of rotation and re-set at four years? If the principle of rotation is applied, does this mean that until they reach the pension stage they will no longer be able to advance others in the Armed Forces of BiH? Why would the general's... faces be in the sense of being detained in relation to the others at lower levels? And why is the BiH Defence Act not defined the way in which other general duties are appointed, for example the commanders of the infantry brigades? On the other hand, we in the BiH Parliament, although under the law we are competent to confirm, are given a table of one proposal at a time and we do not have the opportunity to define ourselves from several proposals. It also happens that in practice from the indetermination of the law... some persons are not in accordance with the law of Article 116(g) of the Armed Forces Act sufficiently qualified for general positions, but for the simple reason that we do not have persons in those places we also place persons who do not comply with the law, i.e. in this proposal proposed. These are some misunderstandings regarding the proposal itself, regarding the indetermination of the law but I also warn the Parliamentary Assembly that for certain reasons we have passed this deadline relating to Article 30... The law on BiH's defence that the Parliamentary Assembly is confirming its appointment within 45 days of the date on which the Bureau delivers its appointment decision to it. The truth is, the Presidency did it on 23rd. One, however, it is also true that it has been 45 days since that day. From all these misunderstandings and... I'm asking myself. Here, I would like to ask the representatives of the Ministry of Defence if they can explain it further or if we ask the Presidency to submit another report within which Parliament will determine the law accordingly. Thank you. The Honorable Deputy Secretary of Defense, Ms. Marina Pendeš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16715	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, to this last question or doubt, perhaps I am not the person who should give an answer. Since they are bound by deadlines, it is more important to Parliament itself. As for the Decision setting candidates in general positions, this proposal for a decision that came to you from the Presidency in its introduction said that: the decision of 18 April last year, the number and that one, is being put out of effect. So, already on April 18th last year, a decision was taken by the Presidency to determine candidates for general positions in the Armed Forces of BiH, where there were six names – while one of the generals submitted a request for retirement for health reasons – so that all those procedures, there were certain changes, where we had to propose a new name instead of an operational command commander, who was also the commander of the brigade. And then to the post of commander of the brigade, the next name. This is one of the reasons why the Presidency had to reconsider the decision, and we in the ministry are waiting for a report and a check by EUFOR, which is in line with the instructions to the parties. So this is one of the reasons why certain objective reasons existed in 43 terms of faster action or decision-making within the Presidency itself or better put forward a decision at the Ministry of Defence to be addressed to the Presidency. The law defined that up to four years someone could be in the general position, you're right when you say that this is about Joint Chiefs of Support, or Operational Command. But that doesn't mean you can have that mandate, so it's up to four years max. The law also defined that the leadership positions, within the meaning of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, then the Commander of the Operational Command and the Support Command, that these persons could not be of the same constituent people but of the three constituent peoples, were defined by the law. And the presidency is determined by the General Court. Since in the seventh month of 2004, and then we had a second law and, in another way, formed the Armed Forces, which had a Joint Chief of Staff in their chain of command, the Operational Command and below were... brigades, in the meantime, by amending the Defence Act, or the Service Act, and after the presidential decision, a new command was founded, which is the Support Command, so that in 2004, generals were appointed in the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Operational Command, and only now with this appointment are we going to appoint a general to the positions of the Support Command, so that it is not at the same time the appointment. So, the appointment is about a man up to four years old, just... now there may be doubt, there may be doubt, but again this house should be evaluated, given that he adopted the Defence Act, the first and second, or the Service Act, because when he appointed the Chief General of Joint Chiefs, his two deputies, the Commander of Operational Command and his two deputies, there is only that chain, meaning that vertical. After almost two years, there is also an operational support command. With this appointment, we now appoint a commander, or general in that position. So that the rotation, if amended, will not be possible for the Joint Chief of Staff for four years, means that it should be replaced or rotated automatically, and those below should be replaced or rotated, so that the Chief of Joint Staff, or the Commander of the Operational Command, or in the subcommand, does not come from the same people. Since the Defence Act has clearly defined, I would say, general positions, at least so for those of us who participated, here in the creation of law in the Ministry of Defence, persons who should meet certain conditions in future when proposing to general positions. And these existing generals, I, I apologize if someone misunderstood, are essentially transition generals, generals through reform, and we are all aware of that, means that at the moment of appointment, the first appointment of the generals by the foundation of the Ministry of Defence, there was a framework law that did not elaborate certain details, so that we proposed people we thought would be able to meet the tasks set before them, regardless of certain conditions that we later defined through the new Defence Act, or the Service Act. Taking into account the consents, taking care of their responsibilities and the jobs they have been doing so far, the same Ministry of Defence proposed that the Presidency adopt one such decision, and in this sense we in the ministry believe that persons who have been proposed fit both morally and materially and professionally for the positions as recognised by the Ministry of Defence. I don't know if I've completely, you understand, answered all your doubts, but this 44 is what we at the Department of Defense have concluded and proposed and I've tried to mean chronologically e-connection, which is why there are certain differences in appointments, or mandates, the duration of the term of office?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16716	Thank you. Is there anyone else registered? If he doesn't, we'll close the argument. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, Ad. Nine. Information from the Council of Ministers on activities related to the formation and work of the Commission on the examination of the truth about the death of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej and others in Sarajevo from 1992 to 1995 Is there any need from the Council of Ministers to explain? We put this item on the agenda of the SDS Club initiative, also at the 22nd session, was postponed for this session. After the request, we received information from the Council of Ministers regarding this point and after receiving the information we included in the agenda and forwarded it to you. I'm opening a debate. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16718	Mr. Chairman, you see, we agreed to work today until 6:00. Given that we have about 20 minutes left, I think it would be good if we didn't start this item on the agenda, because we're just going to come up with something and then maybe next time we're going to repeat ourselves in the discussions. So I suggest we end the debate at this point now. I hope I have your consent in college, otherwise I'll have to ask for a break by 6:00, and then we'll interrupt, so after the break. It's not blackmail. It's not blackmail. It's a pragmatic solution. Here I'd really like to ask if we don't start the debate, because we're not going to finish it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16719	Thank you. After such a clear position on this, do we have a chance to complete points that are not disputed until 1600 hours, such as point 14. Appointment of three members of the Joint Commission, etc. Can you do that? Okay, so we're going back to work tomorrow. At 10.00, we start with the ninth item of the agenda. 45 And now I'm opening item 14 of the agenda: ad. 14. Appointment of three members in the Joint Commission to bring Bosnia and Herzegovina's Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents We have discussed this in the College, and we have suggested that the House accept our proposal, in which we are running for the honourable MP Jukić, the honourable MP Kadrić and the honourable Member Marković in the commission. If there are any other suggestions, please come out with your suggestions. If not, I'm closing this agenda. We're going to 15. Ad. 15. Proposal to complement BiH Parliamentary Assembly's interparliamentary friendship groups
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16722	So here I would just like to point out something that awaits us, given the six groups that have 10, 11 MPs, and 16 to 20, 22 states, that we will remain with the problem of how these groups will function. I'd like to make one suggestion to maybe set one person for one group, etc. It may again remain a conclusion in the jurisdiction of one of the committees that these things are functionally completed after we form these groups. Because we're going to get to a situation, here's a group for Western Europe with 16 states, there are 11 MPs, someone has certain interests that this way goes again...proceeds maybe one of the commissions, to complete the appointments of these, these, just one. There was a need for me to give a suggestion about the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16723	I have a suggestion from the Secretary of the House that this has been resolved by a decision in which groups of friendships to call or whoever comes determines the delegation and the names of people who are 46 about this problem, that is, the country's interest. So they need to determine their president, etc. etc. It's all in line with the decision. Dear Ambassador Belkić. Suggestion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16724	Here's what I hope is that I won't violate the business procedure if I propose another correction to these amendments and supplement them. So, I specifically suggest, although not being treated here in Japan, I don't see that Japan is here, so I suggest that this group of friendships where Japan is I propose Azra Hadžiahmetović, for a simple reason, has been associated with the official authorities for years, i.e. the Academic Community of Japan, and on several occasions she has participated and has continued communication. I don't know how it happened, whether you, Azra, applied at all, so it's possible that there's some technical error, etc. So, if possible, I suggest we add here that in a group of countries where Japan is located also Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16725	We have an electronic application here: the honourable MP, Remzija Kadrić. Is that standing or is that before? Okay. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16726	On the occasion of this item of the agenda, let this go as it goes, but I would ask, I don't know, or to inform us of you from the College, chairing: When will these groups be established and how will they be established? Watch what it's called, what a decision, I don't know what it's called, what it's called, when it's going to be built, when you're going to call these groups, when you're going to make a schedule, if you have, what it's called, what plan, that we know. Because people are asking us. Please. So tell us something, Mr. Belkić, here, what's your name, what's your plan, let's see what we know, to know, I mean, that, we need to know.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16727	The word has been respected by the president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16728	I would like to warn the House that, on several occasions, at the very session of the House and personally behind this pay phone, we have warned the MPs to apply for the groups of friendships they are interested in. We in the House of Representatives have made an agreement and with the House of Peoples in which the relationship should be created by these groups. And forwarded to our Foreign Affairs Commission, which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, is proposed to the House, and the House confirms these groups of friendships, after which the House of Nations changed its names and added some other names; we had unanimity texts, unsatisfactory texts of the adopted names of the groups of friendships of the House of Commons and the House of Peoples. All of this was done to speed up these procedures and to make countries that care about come to us and to express the wish that we too, who are representatives of Parliament, expressed their desire to work with certain countries in particular and that we came to the position that we now have to agree 47 of these texts with another home and that this parity, which is pre-arranged between the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, is to be done. After today's conclusion of this agenda point and after the alignment of these texts, the procedure comes to the secretary to convene groups by decision and between them groups meet and elect the chairman and two vice-presidents. It is a procedure that we must respect and which must end in this Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16729	What? Replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16730	Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16731	...not this replica, this is just trying to help out a little bit. Look, here, you're going to have to do this – that's the question that I actually did, and it came up a little while ago – so you need to make a schedule for the heads of these groups, of course, the position of the heads of the group has much less than there are... MPs and you're going to need to make some interparty agreement, this, what, as it is already walking here in Parliament with us. Now, since you are, therefore, the College and the sekretarijat, I want to share with you and the House one thought to do the following. We didn't make groups of friendships for just one country, but groups of friendships for several countries. And each of these members of the Friendship Group, apart from being a member of a group of friendships for all countries, can also be the head of a delegation for one country, may the leaders of delegations be either two by two and make the accounts, then you don't really need any interparty agreement, just make sure that they're all represented. So, each member of the group, at the same time, except to be a member of the region group, for the region, for several countries, will also be in charge as chairman of one of the countries in the group. This is what I wanted to suggest that you have that in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16732	I would ask MPs to read the Decision on the establishment of a work cycle between parliamentary groups of friendships in which members state in which way it is to be done and to make the conclusion to the agenda point in writing... propose or amend and supplement this in some member or conclusion that we regulate what you have now proposed to agree on the chairman. So we have a decision, the decision is regulated to the members, it does not strictly state the way it will be done, therefore, I ask you to submit your proposal to the conclusion, so that you can put it to the vote. Okay. Dear Ambassador Nanić wanted a replica. Is it? Here you go. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16733	It is related, Mr Belkić suggested – it is true here, I thought the President of the Commission would call – but here he says that we have had three or four times here and it is very difficult to touch this now: nationality, gender, home one, home the other, this is the highlight of all possible calculations. I just want to mention one more thing here that there's a lot of double jobs here. We have the BiH Foreign Affairs Commission, we have the Commission for European Integration. Indeed, great powers are taken to the Foreign Affairs Commission, which in other parliaments is one of the very important commissions and, in that sense, I just want this, here to hear it, that these things should not... coincide. We had a problem. We are in one session, the Commission has also discussed the travels of certain delegations, certain commissions, etc. You know what's the jurisdiction that committees and let these things really take care of in these decisions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16734	Thank you. Is there anyone else? If he doesn't, I'll close the debate and we'll interrupt the session. Dear Ambassador Suljkanović, just a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16735	Agenda point 11. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2007. We've worked this out on the Transport and Communications Commission. Mr. Salkić waited very disciplinedly all day and I think he can present this report, which they delivered, in 10 minutes. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16736	Is there any will in Parliament that we should discuss this item of the agenda, too, to finish it. Dear Ambassador Križanović wanted something. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16737	...related to this, but I had a need to make one technical intervention. During this session, I expected to receive material for the last item of the agenda, in connection with this resolution by my colleague Dokić. Namely, I don't know if the other colleagues got it, but we don't have that resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16738	Youmoratiti have to check it out at the SDP Club,...losing documents. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16739	If we're the only ones, think I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16740	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16741	Here, let them raise the hands they don't have, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16742	Okay, wait a minute. Please, is there any readiness for us to finish another part of the agenda tonight? If there is, if there is a willingness, and apparently there is, we will also consider the 11th point: Ad. 11. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2007 Is there a need? Dear Messenger Dokić, and Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16744	Mr. Chairman, I think it is my turn that on behalf of the committee responsible, who evaluated this report, I say a few sentences. I won't bother you very much. So, the Communications and Transport Commission considered this report and accepted and even very commendably expressed itself on the content of the report itself and on the way it was made, with several conclusions agreed by the three present chairmans, or not Mr Salkić but was his deputy, who was on the Commission and, if I did not read to you now, you have this report, what are these conclusions, so I propose that we consider the report as a whole the relevant commission, and then the Derk Report afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16745	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16746	I thank you, Chairman. I appreciate that this problem, and at this time in which the current special event in the Federation, related to the energy sector, is current issues, I don't think we should have accelerated this way of making this decision, but most of it was for. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16747	If we fail to finish, we will not conclude the debate and we can continue the debate and tomorrow, it is not a problem at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16748	But it's a lot of distractions and attention, but good. I'll only mention two things here. Some of them are listed and many of them and others indicated at the Commission's session and which I am a member, is. The first is that we really have an institution, which is one of the five institutions in BiH, assessed positively by audit institutions in BiH, which we should certainly commend and say that the business of the company itself, the institution itself, was transparent and positive. I want here on page 5 about the activities that have been led under the Directorate is the Regulation on Connection and those jobs – I shorten a lot, a lot of details I skip – means that the rest is a complex and responsible process of clear, predictable and enforceable solutions in the specific structural sector in BiH, meaning that this activity should be welcomed in which it is done, given the very important thing, regarding responsible bond relations, that the Directorate itself is ending it, or the institution. And, secondly, in addition to all the things I said I would skip, it is this customer protection institute, which has been repeated to us for the second year and, given the findings that the assessment is and the current situation is such an assessment that the trend of price growth will continue in the next period, that it is necessary to do a systematic and clear Institute of Subsidisation of the most vulnerable energy consumers, and that this... practice and approach and principle, but it is not the job of this institution, but that it is the work of the competent governments of entity and Council of Ministers and, in that sense, we have discussed the Commission, but we have not reached a conclusion on this issue and it would be necessary to draw binding conclusions on governments to engage more clearly in this problem, and the Derk institution to help with the adoption of these regulations.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16749	Thank you. Is there a need from Derk to explain? There isn't. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16750	I'm sorry. It's not a replica, it's not a discussion, I don't even know what it is, but it's a little unusual for the Derek report, the State Regulatory Agency, or the Commission on Electricity to consider the Commission for Transport and Communications. I've been trying, here's the persistent listening to a distinguished colleague, Dokić, to find some logic, but I really can't find it. In my opinion, from our commissions, the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, or the Commission for Finance or the Joint Commission for Economic Development, may have been the most suitable because consumer protection, regulation in the field of electricity, key development sector, I apologize, but indeed, I would ask for the future, when we have a report of this kind, that we still manage some other criteria. This is not an objection. I know we don't have adequate commissions, but this really isn't an adequate commission. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16751	Thank you. I know we didn't do anything that we didn't do all last year. So, this has been done all the time by this same commission and for the past four years, when you and I were MPs, and that was done by the same commission, so we didn't transfer jurisdiction. Foreign trade, then it's something different. Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16752	Well, I'm not the one for this job. Thank you to my kolegica Azra, if she manages to push through this idea of hers, but I will tell you that there are other illogicalities that are incomparably greater. Is it logical for you that the area, here, is the electrical area of the Ministry of Foreign Trade? That's what you're saying because you used to be a minister, so you put it there, and it doesn't make any sense to me, but not to open those questions now. As far as we're concerned, we've been given the task of Parliament to do so. Here, the Secretary of the Commission says that this commission has always considered it. I don't know, to be clear, but as far as I'm concerned, as president of this committee, I'd be very grateful if you push that into another commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-1.u16753	Let's think about whether this committee has always done it. If it doesn't, let's move it. If there are no more reports, I'll conclude the debate on this agenda point. We start tomorrow at 10:00. The seat was interrupted at 1800 hours.
