ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3025	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we begin. Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, honored guests, I welcome you all and open the 23rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Today's session is attended by 14 delegates, four from the Bosniak people, five from the Croatian people and five from the Serb people. Mr. Sulejman Tihić justified his absence, since he was prevented from attending today's session. For the 23rd session, I suggest the next updated agenda compared to what you've received in the conference. 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 22nd session of the House of Nations; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Insurance of Deposits in Banks of BiH by an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure; 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure; 5. Proposal for a Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (second reading) – Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 6. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports in BiH (second reading) – Proposer Constitutional Commission; 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Classification of Activities in BiH (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Security and Security Agency of BiH (first reading) – Proposer of the Joint Security and Intelligence Commission for the Control of the work of the Security Agency of BiH; 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Secret Information (First Reading) – Proposer of the Joint Security and Intelligence Commission for the Control of the Work of the Security and Security Agency of BiH; 2 10. Proposal for a law on minor perpetrators of criminal offences and criminal protection of children and minors (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 11. Proposal for a Law on the Protection and Well-being of Animals (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 12. Report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for the period January-December 2007; 13. Information on the state of property delicacies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with an emphasis on the crime of estrangement of vehicles in 2006 and 2007 and in the first six months of 2008; 14. Report by the Joint Committee on Harmonisation of the Proposal for the appointment of the Ombudsman in the Ombudsman Institution for Human Rights of BiH; 15. Report of the Joint Committee on Harmonisation of the Proposal for appointment of the Vice-General Auditor; 16. Report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in BiH for the period from 1. 1. 2008 to 30. Six. 2008; 17. Temporary report on the work of the Interresor Working Group on the draft Immunity Act; 18. Annual Progress Report (monitoring the implementation of Action Plan 1 of the Public Administration Reform Strategy in Bosnia and Herzegovina – materials of the Council of Ministers of BiH); 19. Declaration of Good Administration – Proposer of the House of Representatives; 20. Proposal for a conclusion on Information on Life and Body Crimes, with an emphasis on domestic violence for 2006 and 2007 and on trends in the first three months of 2008; 21. Selection of members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security (Rang-list of the Council of Ministers of BiH); 22. The request of the constitutional committees of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's home to give authority to determine the consolidated text of the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH; 23. An initiative to draft a new law on public procurement of BiH – Proposer Dušanka Majkić; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Bank Austria Credit Assessment AG – Fojnica-Kiseljak Water Construction Project and the Lepenica-Kiseljak sewage collector; 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on reciprocal improvement and protection of investments; 26. Giving consent to ratification of the Finance Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation of BiH and the European Investment Bank – Water and sewerage project in the Federation of BiH; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the European Agreement on the submission of applications for legal aid; 28. The appointment of the Ad hoc Commission for the making of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and the creation of the consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. This is a harmonised agenda for the College of the House of Peoples. 3 Is anyone answering for a word? Niko. So there are no amendments and additions and this agenda is considered to be harmonised. We're moving to the first item of the Ad agenda. 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3028	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3029	Satisfied with the answer. Slobodan Šaraba, question asked at the 22nd session of the House of Peoples. Are you?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3030	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected members of the working presidency, I must say that I am absolutely dissatisfied with the answer I set in the previous session and referred to persons who have been replaced by a high representative and who have been deprived of fundamental human and civil rights. I'm unhappy for two reasons. First, which I didn't get from the High Representative, but I got an answer from the man who signed this document and whose name is Eduard Daust, head of the Legal Department. So I asked the High Representative personally, believing that these decisions made by the High Representative were injured by basic human and civil rights to a large number of persons in BiH and I asked for these changes to allow individuals to at least exercise basic human and civil rights, such as the right to work, the right to social assistance, the right to insurance, the right to help in unemployment. Unfortunately, I received a completely wrong answer and a reply saying in one sentence that those decisions were made by a high representative to whom those persons were removed or for reasons directly or indirectly linked to the lack of co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. I really do not want to comment on this, and, Mr. Chairman, I am completely dissatisfied with the answer I have received to the question I have decidently asked these people to make possible what is set out in the BiH Constitution. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3031	Thank you very much. Although I think our ability to influence this area as a Kolegijuma is such that there's nothing special we can do anymore. Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija has also received the answer. So are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3032	Partly satisfied.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3033	Partly, thank you. Then Mr. Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3034	I'm happy with the answer, but here I have to say that I'm not satisfied with the fact that it's numbered in response, and that's actually going to cause me to ask an additional question at one of the next sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3035	Thank you very much. Any new questions from the delegates?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3036	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3037	What? Well, but now I'm going with the usual question and I'm asking everyone to sign in, because you have the ability to electronically, who has the intention to ask the question, so I get it. Mr. Božo Rajić answered first.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3038	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll text this opening argument and deliver the question... and then it can be multiplied. On the occasion of a saga on the Ombudsmans, BiH personally as well as many other MPs, i.e. representatives of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, addressed the Ombudsman candidate Mr. Mariofil Ljubić to point out a number of irregularities in the process of naming BiH's Ombudsman. He argues that the Ad hoc committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives wrote and warned that the election of the Ombudsman had been removed from the framework of the law and that it was necessary to return it to legal frameworks but that no one had ever answered 5 of its questions. Furthermore, he demanded that it be examined that and whose actions were carried out by representatives of the House of People at the meeting, held on 23 July 2008, it was false that the House of Peoples had not received a decision by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the election of the Ombudsman at a session of the House since 14 July 2008. Mr Ljubić said he had checked the allegations and determined that the House of Peoples had received a stated decision from the House of Representatives on 15 July 2008 through the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Office, under the number of 01-50-1-15- 32/08. I would like to ask the question of the College of the People's House and the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH: 'Is Mr. Mariofil Ljubić referring to the conscious hiding of the Zatumni dom's decision from the MPs of the House of Peoples correct and, if so, who is responsible?' Due to the urgency of the issue and the legal protection of the candidates, I demand a written answer, and very urgent. Attachment: letter from Mr. Mariofil Ljubić,... many representatives, Secretariat of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3039	Thank you very much. The delegation question is Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3040	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome you and the co-chairman, distinguished colleagues, ministers and all the guests of this session today. We only had the anniversary of the BiH Army two or three days ago. I attended one of the celebrations, and I saw a sad picture when we saw the musicians of the BiH Army in the House of the Army who were in worn out, worn out and army uniforms from the battlefield. I don't think they were on the battlefield, but there are uniforms that are for wear, exercise, etc. That's why I'm asking the Ministry of Defence and the Joint Armed Forces Command of BiH: 'When can we expect the procurement of formal uniforms for members of the Armed Forces to the music band's troops?' And the second question is the same title: 'When will the decision on advanced generals in the General Assembly be applied that was made a year ago? I mean the recognition of rank, wages and all that goes with that part."
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3041	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3042	My question has been asked to the State Agency for Investigation and Protection. Therefore, the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection in Article 14 states the tasks of the Department for the Protection of Personalities and Objects and says: 'The Department for the Protection of Persons and Objects shall carry out the physical and technical protection of persons protected under this law, as well as protected facilities and social property.' In Article 15. The law lists who are protected persons, which means members of the BiH presidency, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers in the Council of Ministers, the chairman of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, the chairman of the House of Representatives, the President of the BiH Court, the chief prosecutor of BiH, so also foreign officials visiting BiH and other persons, following the decision of the Council of Ministers. 'According to the reasoned request of protected persons from the stand (1), SIPA will provide protection to the other members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, other judges of the Court of Justice, the Deputy Prosecutor and other prosecutors of BiH, after the decision of the Director, and based on the expert assessment of the SIPA.' I ask the Director of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection to give us, in order to provide timely and accurate information on the availability of public money intended to cover the costs of the involvement of SIPA police authorities, to protect the facilities and persons, to answer the following questions: '1. What's the number of people involved in security at the state level? How much total was the financial resources, and how many people were hired for these purposes in 2007? 2. How much was spent in 2008 for the security of persons and objects, and how many people were engaged in the realization of this obligation? Show the situation on 30.9. and give an assessment by the end of 2008. 3. How much of this purpose is the budget planned in 2009 and how many people are planned to implement this obligation?" I beg your answer on the written path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3043	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3044	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I will ask three delegate questions, or I will renew one because I asked him five months ago, unfortunately I did not get any answer, or any indication that I would get an answer, and since I consider him extremely significant, then I will repeat it. 'What does the Council of Ministers intend to do to stop further theft of electricity from the Trebišnica hydropower plant system by Croatia's electricity industry?' 7 Since I have asked this question earlier, I have not received any answer, in the meantime this debt is, and I have a list here, it is quite growing and it is currently about 3.5 billion kWh, which is somewhere around 200 million marks, so I ask the Council of Ministers to take urgent measures to stop further damage suffered by the RS and BiH energy sectors. My second question is, "Why has the distribution of funds intended for returnees of Serbian nationality in the Municipality of Ravna, which were approved in the first half of this year, and what criteria has the commission used to determine who will be assisted?" In the first half of this year from BiH level, and within the framework of the implementation of joint projects, funds were granted to help rebuild destroyed houses for returnees of Serbian nationality in the Municipality of Ravna, along with a border belt with a municipality of Trebinje of 175,000 marks. Although the construction season has already been completed, the allocation of these funds has not yet been made, and it is not known when it will be. And my third question is, "When will the joint session of the two BiH Paraliamentary Assembly on State Information in the diplomatic and consular network of BiH continue?" Since the 8th joint session of both homes, held on 23.04, was suspended when this item of the agenda began to be considered, I believe it is necessary to proceed urgently with regard to the catastrophic situation in certain parts of this network. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3045	Thank you very much. Mrs Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3046	Thank you, Chairman. My question was addressed to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the competent Ministry of Finance and Treasury. I ask: 'What has the Council of Ministers, or the competent ministry, done or what is it intended to do to protect the equalisation of BiH institutions' employees on maternity leave?' I ask this question because now that the Law on Salaries and Efforts in BiH institutions has been adopted, most of us know that we have a situation to give birth, employees of BiH institutions, who have the right to pay from the Budget of BiH, receive compensation during the use of maternity leave that is not uniform, by some receiving full-time compensation, 100% of the salary they made during the previous period, while some receive this fee in a very small amount, and some do not receive at all, depending on the place of residence,...the place where they have their residence. If the law regulates equal wages for all 8 employees of BiH institutions, I think the issue of compensation should be equally regulated, because the European Convention on Human Rights, which is an integral part of the BiH Constitution, guarantees the enjoyment of all rights without discrimination, and this is confirmed by Protocol 12 to the European Convention guaranteeing the enjoyment of all rights without discrimination on any basis on the level of the entire territory of BiH. And, I want an answer from the finance ministry whether this problem has been addressed and whether the ministry has proposed to the Council of Ministers to address this problem and also a specific member of the Law on Salaries or Refunds in BiH institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3047	Thank you very much. There are no new reports. I remind the delegates who have asked the question that they should be delivered in writing. He delivered one number, but not all of them, so I ask you to carry out that obligation. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 22nd session of the House of Peoples Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. We're going to vote. Prepare to vote. You can vote! It's a final vote. I find that with 14 votes "for" the 22nd session was adopted. We're going to the third point, Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Insurance of Deposits in Banks of BiH by an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3050	So, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, I have a duty to say a few words about this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act. So we saw that the Council of Ministers let us into the parliamentary procedure of the law, in which the amount of guarantee for all savings stakes is increased from 7,500 to 20,000. I think this is the third deposit increase since 2002 when it was 5,000. I think it is necessary to consider this bill as an emergency procedure in order to find it and we should have already completed this procedure, but here we have had a delay, so today we should finish. We see that it is important that the bill provides for the abolition of deposit guarantees for legal persons, which creates a possibility for savings insurance, to increase citizens' savings insurance above the initially proposed 15,000. I have no doubt that there should be any controversy about this, but there remains one issue that is imposed on most people, which is how, despite the increase in insurance under this bill, BiH has a far and convincing minimum amount of deposits from all the countries in the region. I know that the European insurance policy is up to 50,000 euros. Well, let's say the other countries in the environment aren't in a much better economic situation. There's an interesting answer to that, and I'd like someone to tell me about it and, therefore, the club of delegates of the Serbian people will support this proposal, and I believe that this will be resolved as much as 90% as announced. That's it, but I'd like the deputy minister to answer my question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3051	Thank you very much. The next person to answer the word is Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3052	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues and everyone else present here, I think – I only wanted to express in one sentence, but here is already said in what Mrs. Dušanka said – to express dissatisfaction although I will positively determine myself according to this amendment and supplement of the Deposit Insurance Act, but I wanted to express my dissatisfaction with the limit established here, 20 thousand marks. I think the message we sent over this limit is far below all those found where they were found, and there are a lot of countries that haven't even established that limit, for example. Neighbouring Slovenia, not to send a very encouraging message to people who live here, work and have that money. Insurance is, in fact, the creation of security, not just the insurance of money, but the creation of security for working with money, especially for investment. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3053	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3054	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So Mr. Zno had his discussion in part and said what I wanted to ask, but here I am going to ask that particular question. So these changes are quite clear, these changes have provided guarantees for savings stakes of up to 20,000 marks. I ask the basic human question: "What about the savings stakes of over 20,000 marks? Are your stakes in danger?" I personally think that the representatives of the ministry should answer that question completely concretely. People in these places in the past are very often and cheated and light and I personally think they should be told specifically whether the savings stakes are greater than 20 grand in danger? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3055	Thank you very much. Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3056	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, of course, I join those who express the satisfaction that the Council of Ministers, through the competent ministry, has launched amendments and additions to this law to protect the savings roles of citizens at this time of absolute uncertainty and catastrophic predictions. However, I generally advocate the clarity of qualifications, even in laws. Since it is a procedure in which it cannot intervene in text or in the amendment sense, I would only then like the Ministry of Finance to explain a little, for the sake of the public, not so much for me, the provisions of Articles 2 and 4. So, what does it matter? In particular, Article 2 states that the secured deposit within the meaning of this law is part of a maximum of 20 thousand KM of the appropriate deposit of a natural person covered by insurance through the Insurance Fund. Please explain the concept, for public reasons, which means 'appropriate deposit'. And in Article 4, what the citizens must be most interested in, saves: What is the state guaranteeing, or guaranteeing the Deposit Insurance Agency? Am I deposited by one bank, deposit by one person or multiplied by those two effects, deposit both per person and per bank? I understand that Article 4 speaks precisely about the other, that the maximum amount of the secured deposit together with the interest calculated, so here we now have one question whether it is guaranteed to secure the secured deposits in the nominal amount or the credited interest. So that's the third question now. And paid by the Agency by a natural person per bank... an appropriate deposit of a reduced legal contractual obligation that the debtor has to the bank or which is smaller. [[isn't understood...]] So to me, this provision of this article is quite confusing, very vague. But I understand about like this... that it's guaranteed for individual roles per person per bank. So, I can, simplistically put, have... in ten banks a role of up to 20,000 marks and for each one we are guaranteed. So I can have five banks and I can have ten banks to guarantee me, whether it's one person or more for the whole stake. And secondly, I get paid an amount that... corresponds to a broken state if it has a commitment to the bank, but I don't understand what this means 'or if it's smaller'. What does "if it's smaller" mean? 11 If he says it's up to 20, then I guess it includes some smaller amounts, it could be a stamp and it could be 19.999. I would ask Mr Kasumović to try to explain it a little bit, because people are interested in this when the law is passed on guaranteeing the roles, to see what it is that guarantees, not that we need the law interpreter again as soon as we get out of here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3057	Thank you very much. Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3058	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman, Honorable colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the media, distinguished guests, the Bosniak People's Delegations Club supports the procedure to adopt this law by an urgent procedure, and we will support it as well as the adoption of the law itself. In view of the procedure, of course, it could not have been amended, but I support discussions between colleagues and colleagues who speak of certain inaccuracies in this law. So, I support, on the one hand, the urge to protect citizens and to carry out a kind of savings deposit insurance in banks, but the formulations contained in this law are not clear and may not be best. Because with changes and additions, whether or not it falls under the provisions of the laws that spoke of insurances that were smaller amounts, and here it says up to 20,000. So up to 20,000 is both stamps and two and five and up to 20,000, especially when it comes to the fact that Article 4 behind the position (1) adds a new position that says that "The Agency's Management Board, on a proposal from the Director of the Agency, is making a decision to change the amount of the secured deposit and to be published in the Official Messenger of BiH". So, just someone needs to bring in what's... the amount. Here would be a better and happier and safer formulation – at least 20,000. And then let's, uh, let's, uh, let the Agency bring in and make it 20.001 marks or more. Also, in addition to this, I would like to say that, logically, a large number of citizens have fewer savings and, of course, it should be protected. And a smaller number of citizens, a smaller, quite small number, either in absolute or in percentage terms, have higher savings in banks. So it was quite logical and it was possible to predict a larger amount... so let's say, I don't know, 30 or 50 thousand as a protected amount, because that in the total amount of savings and in the total amount of protected citizens would do no harm to anyone. After all, the state wants to protect its citizens and the state would have no harm if we had seen a greater amount, as the amount secured, in this law. I'm sorry these changes didn't go this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3059	Thank you very much. Here I have one more time that you signed up. No, I haven't reported you again, so press that application for me. Now I've got it. Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3060	I'll find a lot of that new word. The state is doing this to encourage the savings, i.e. the people who have the money to invest in the bank so that we and the legal persons can use that money, enlarge, increase, etc. That's why I think, like Rančić, that it was meant to get into this more courageously, that people were relieved of their role in the bank. This savings is the motor power of this country's development. If we don't do it now, because the outflow won't be for a year or two, to forget, there's no more money coming in here that can be spent on loans. This should be considered if, in some future time, in some change, we get a little bolder into it, so we say, well, let's say it's a hundred thousand, because it's a little quiet that's going to transfer these twenty, but we're simply going to give the citizen a signal that his savings stake is safe and we're going to benefit from it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3061	Thank you very much. There are no more reported, and there have been a lot of requests for clarification, so I propose that Deputy Finance Minister respond, Mr Kasumović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3062	Dear Chairman, distinguished delegates, distinguished colleagues and media, I will be right at the beginning, in order not to have any dilemmas, ask you, say, always that folk has the saying 'better sparrow in hand than pigeon on the branch', I ask you to, and with all the inadequacies, these changes and complements to adopt this today for the following reasons. You see, we're the only country in the region that hasn't arranged anything yet. All of our neighbouring countries have responded in a timely manner, and within seven days, all of this procedure has been completed. In the surrounding countries, the secured deposit is 50,000 euros. The European Commission made a decision two days ago for its members to be an unlimited deposit, that EU countries guarantee all savings an unlimited deposit. The following is happening in BiH. It was launched suddenly that many were disbursing their funds in banks, according to some information, and some were exported to neighboring our countries, where they were guaranteed a higher amount, etc., etc. The financial crisis that has hit the whole world and BiH is touching and the first thing it has touched in BiH is the banks, and it immediately touched the economy. Because banks are getting harder and harder to get money, and people who do business know what it means. We want it this way, so this is the responsibility of the BiH Banking Agency, and the Ministry of Finance and Treasury as a resolute ministry is the only thing that should be followed by the Council of Ministers and Parliament. I'll do it again. So, ask that, with all our inadequacies, we adopt this, but I'd like to ask you for one conclusion. BiH has been determined to go irrevocably to the Euro-Atlantic community. That all laws that are passed should be at the back of it. BiH is one of the most non-indebted states in the region, on this side, means other parameters when we take it, there is no reason that the BiH state cannot afford up to 50,000 and more euros guarantee its savings. But since we know that our procedures are taking a long time and I ask you all to adopt this, but also the conclusion -- they are in charge of seeing, to sort us out, whether, we have defined ourselves towards the EU, there is space, for this only 13 needs a little more will, this doesn't need a little policy -- I hope this goes away because it is all about all BiH citizens. Secondly, the interest on the loans our economy is raising has already accumulated and the worst is not enough, and at these expensive interest rates, there is not enough resources. This is the only way, when the BiH state expects a record debalancing of exports from imports this year. So that's what you need to know, so this year will be the biggest imbalance of imports and exports. We have nothing else to do but help our economy, our citizens, to somehow encourage people to save, to disarm funds and that. And to do that, you know just how many problems and today we have about the old foreign savings, because it's not easy for people and you people to conclude, simply, we all have to do both the government and everyone else to encourage the citizens to save, because that's the only thing that's going to make a good economy, and then to us all indirectly. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, there were only two more questions I didn't answer. So, in Article 2, the secured deposit under this law is up to a maximum of 20 grand. So that's clear, accurate. What does "suitable" mean? So it's all done... that he has a contract, that he has, that you understand me, that the bank and the one that lays everything has decadent and precise. Article 4 says, again, 20,000, it means 20,000 marks, not including interest and not interest. So up to 20,000 in total government guarantees, that's it. And what you're saying is, meaning a legally agreed amount, so banks are made available through this way in a variant that one who has a secure deposit of 20,000, and also has a loan from the bank, it's said that this one and in the variant, not Bog, then the bank fails, so the state guarantees, means for that amount that he owes the bank will be reduced to that deposit.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3063	Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3064	I haven't heard two answers that interest me. The first is the answer, so there's absolutely no doubt, I don't believe anyone here today in this house is sitting who isn't in favor of supporting this law and passing, so let's conclude that further possibilities are being reconsidered. But for the sake of clarity, people are interested just because of this... what are these amounts that guarantee relatively low, so let's say someone who has 50,000 will split into three places – is there a guarantee for all three stakes in person or just one?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3065	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3066	Then Article 4 is not consistent, it's not correct, if that's the case. Because it says here on the bank and on the person. So it's not consistent. And secondly, if you say up to 20,000 marks in total, then someone who's been saving 10 years can already be more interest than the principal. So you're not guaranteed a nominal amount of 14 savings. Thus, these are two fundamentally different questions. However, it should be seen in the future, and I am to do today what we can do and to go on doing something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3067	Thank you very much. I suggest this way, we've had the debate and the method of how we're going to vote and the essence. And now to say first that we are voting, and in the end, we are going to conclude someone, possibly, if we agree, so that we will now vote first on whether the bill will be considered in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure. Prepare to vote. You can vote! Thank you. I find that... someone didn't vote for me, but abstention, is it? Okay, well, then 13 "for", one "abstained". I find that a proposal for this law to be considered under Article 122 has been adopted. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Now we're voting on the bill. Prepare to vote. You can vote! I find that with 13 votes "yes" and one "abstained", with the required majority, this law has been passed. It was a proposal, the truth of the deputy minister, but as I understand it, just a second, that they're people who agree. Here, Mrs. Majkić will have a proposal for a formulation to draw some conclusion that would be entrusted to the competent authorities to monitor this movement and propose and possibly increase the amount secured. I agree with that conclusion in this context, with what I remind myself again, deposits are secured according to the size of the reserve fund. There's a deposit insurance fund that guarantees it by its size. So it's neither budget nor anything but this fund and banks must naturally meet the conditions... I think all our banks have met these conditions, that they're all in that fund. The scope of this fund depends on it, depending on the level of the individual deposit to be provided and my opinion is that this conclusion should possibly be extended in a way that the competent institutions work to increase this fund and in accordance with that by height. Here, that's all I wanted to suggest eventually. Mrs. Majkić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3068	I just thought, in the context of the proposal of the Deputy Minister, that the conclusion might be, 'It is up to the Council of Ministers to consider the possibility, until the bill is proposed, which would increase the amount of the principal for all savings roles of citizens from the current 20 to 50,000 marks.' 15
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3069	Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3070	I have one initiative... because it depends on a lot of things, rather than following this situation and, in any case, as soon as the possibility arises, raises this figure to one that is possible. We can do it every month if... it's like that. So I wouldn't bid the number, why not 100 grand if that's possible, because there's 100 grand in the environment everywhere. And I think it can be done in the present time that this is a little too careful.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3071	And can you allow the chairman, who is otherwise obliged to try to formulate the conclusion, that he formulate when he has not received a concrete proposal, so I suggest, if he can, a compromise solution like this: 'The people's house is in charge of competent institutions, and above all the Council of Ministers, that they engage in an increase in the amount of the Deposit Insurance Fund and ask, in particular, the Council of Ministers to propose, within the shortest time, new amendments and to supplement laws that would bring the amount closer to the secured deposits in the environment.' Mrs. Majkić, is that about it, and it's not a numbered amount. I suggest you prepare for the vote to define yourself for this conclusion as well. You can vote. I find that, with 14 votes "yes", this conclusion has been reached by the majority and adopted. We're going to the fifth point, that's it; I'm sorry, the fourth point, I apologize; Ad. 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure So, the House again decides on a request to consider the bill to this member. The amendments don't apply. The House of Representatives adopted the request for the draft law to be considered by an urgent procedure and subsequently adopted that law. I'm opening a debate and I suggest we hold a joint discussion on both 122 and content. Are there any interested in the debate? Mrs. Majkić answered her word. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3073	So what I'm saying is, as is the previous law, that this should be passed as soon as possible and that we have already lost a lot of time and that the significant European Commission funds are at the disposal of BiH which cannot raise. And that the IPA Tax Administration has done everything not to implement an amendment to the law, but in the end, it has realised that a change must be made in terms of the regulation of VAT exemption for all projects financed from the IPA Funds. So we have nothing to do with this, but to pass this law as soon as possible so that we can have these resources at our disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3074	Thank you. I don't have any more charges to argue with. Can we approach the vote? First, we will declare whether this law... will be considered in accordance with Article 122. Prepare to vote. You can vote! I find that, with 13 votes, "this law has been passed, the proposal has been adopted. We are now pleading on the bill's proposal. Prepare to vote. You can vote! I find that, with 13 votes "yes", the bill on... amendments to the VAT law has been passed. We're going to the fifth point, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Code of Conduct for MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics (second reading) The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Code Proposal. The House of Representatives adopted the amendment code adopted by the Joint Commission. You've also received the Joint Commission Report. The Commission adopted eight amendments which have thus become an integral part of the proposal for a code. New amendments to the proposal for a code were submitted by the delegate Dušanka Majkić. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić answered her word. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3076	So, I've offered these amendments for a long time, for a year these amendments are being brought to the wolf, and, as it went to the House of Representatives, Mr. Prodanović has taken over my amendments and these two amendments have not been adopted and I want to defend them again today. I think, in fact... that, in particular, this amendment to Article 13 may be a key amendment on which this Rules of Procedure rests. What exactly is this about? In a country so accused of corruption to define such a clumsy and unsettled issue of corruption for me is very symptomatic, especially that some MPs and delegates tried to defend it in different ways. But a member who reads: "The elected officials will refrain from any conduct that, according to current domestic or international criminal legislation, could be characterised as corruption." What? How? Where? Nothing. To this member, I have suggested that this amendment, which, in accordance with legislative and international practice, defines possible forms of corrupt behaviour of elected officials, leaves no room or dilemma for different interpretations of corruption unlike that proposed in Article 3. So, this amendment says: 'The elected officials will refrain from any kind of corrupt behaviour, which relates to: 1. All types of abuse of a position carried out out out of kindness; 2. All forms of behaviour aimed at proposing, adopting and interpreting laws, decisions and other rules that go in favour of the elected official, individual, group or company in the public or private sector; 3. All forms of deliberate distortion... of the proper application of existing laws, rules and regulations with a view to putting into a more favourable position (so I ask you, colleague Ademe, if you are not interested in me stopping)..........chosen officials, individuals, groups or companies in the public or private sector. I really can't believe that this kind of contribution that precisely defines all forms of corruption where it can occur most, in which fields, and that's the basis for sanctioning at the moment, that something like this couldn't have been accepted on this committee, and that's why I suggest that the House adopt this amendment. We'll do it one at a time, or we'll get it right away...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3077	Thank you very much. Is there any other interested in the debate in general, so we'll do it when it comes. Mr. Božo Rajić, then Mr. Šaraba. _________(?) 18 [[no microphone turned on]] It's not registered, just press.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3079	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers and Guests, I have come forward because, in one part of the general debate, I would like to make my point on the code as a matter of fact, not on amendments. Mrs. Majkić, I've been listening to you, and I expect you to do the same. So, I volunteered to say why I'd be against making codes, no, that's first. So, I believe that in BiH, in addition to the various non-productive energies spent here, there is one energy consumption on the so-called. Pre-normativeism, or excessive normation of something that does not need to be normized at all. I think the code is not a question of establishing standards of conduct, it's a question... and it's taken from home, from school, from a religious institution, who believes, or doesn't. The Codex won't reenact us, and I don't believe it, and that's why I'm opposed to infantile acts that contain such acts. So that's my attitude, that's my resistance to stupidity, because we're not yesterday, we're not people who don't know how to think, we're not people who don't know what a crime is, which is a moral act, which is an immoral act. If you look at this code as a whole, then you'll see that it defines the term of an official, it's defined by law, especially by Election Law. He speaks here, I want to define you in a special way, that the MP works by law and that he is obliged to act solely with the public interest. So we took an oath, we took an oath to work under the Constitution of this country and by a law that implies the protection of general interest, of general good, not of our own interest. The Codex teaches us that we must stick to certain principles, these are general ethical principles. I say, she's being brought out of the house but you can't find them anywhere on the street. That responsibility is understood in the performance of every duty, fairer, completely irrational term – which is honesty, integrity, objectivity, etc., that in some final parts of this text, in addition to amendments, which have already been adopted on this committee or not, talk about banning and abuse of power in their own interests. This is verified in all the laws of the world as a criminal offence prescribed by criminal law. The conflict of interest is defined by our Electoral Law and some other laws. The limitations of the simultaneous behaviour of several functions are also the subject of matter regulated by the Electoral Law. Applying powers, banning corruption? Corruption is a criminal offence in all countries, so so is BiH. So when we add all of this up, subtract, we're trying to re-integrate a whole series of legal regulations that talk about illicit actions, to give them some moral dimension, because if we didn't bring it, we didn't know by now, now that we're getting the code, we're going to become other people. And I don't remember. If anyone remembers, I'd like to be reminded of that, when in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, there has been any act that would look like an incident, a violation of the dignity of a person or of rude behavior? I don't remember that. Who needs this material? It takes those who need to justify their presence here. I don't need this code, I'm ready as a man and as a representative for all my actions to answer at the moral, criminal and criminal level, and I don't need to be taught how to treat the public, to the public, to the people, to the citizens, to my fellow MPs. 19 Thank you very much. And that's why I'm going to be, I'm going to vote against it, because it's a principled attitude against every amendment and text in general.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3080	Thank you. We have a replica, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3081	There have been cases, Mr. Božo Rajić, unsuitable, incorrect and, I don't know, all the conduct of the MPs. And this code is not made for one person, it is made for present and future parliamentarians. Many countries have it, and I don't see why it shouldn't be BiH, because we have a very ugly opinion of the government in public. We can think very well of ourselves, and that won't stop us from seeing our picture in the mirror as undistorted, and the question of whether or not others see us that way. When we spoke on the subject of the principle of this law, you voted yes. Now we have a second phase in which we are talking about amendments. The opening of the story of principles is now inconsistencies. I'm asking you to stick to the amendment, because phase two is the amendment phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3082	Thank you very much. Mr. Rajić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3083	Mrs. Majkić, I wouldn't compromise with your conviction, and neither would you with mine. It's my belief that this is an abuse of counsel. I remain in it, I have supported the principles because the constitutional basis set out there in the principles of the law I supported, let it enter the procedure. And at the stage when we decide on the whole of this project today, I have the right to be against it and I explained why I'm against it. And that doesn't limit your right to be in.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3084	Thank you very much. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3085	Well, I would like to refer to this amendment proposed by Mrs Dušanka Majkić, which this commission and the working group working on these amendments, in fact, to the reasons – whether certain amendments should be included in the proposal for a Code of Conduct and proposed as an amendment to this Commission, why this working group, headed by me, rejected this amendment and recommended that the amendment not become an amendment to the Commission and did not become such an integral part of the Proposed Code of Conduct. So here, Mrs. Majkić, 20 is where you listed some of the forms of corruptive behaviour, but I would like to remind the MPs that BiH did not have defined criminal acts of corruption by 2003. By 2003, we didn't even know what could be under the idea of corruption. By amending criminal law in 2003, BiH's Criminal Law and entity laws, a special chapter was introduced into criminal law, which is the crimes of the corporation. And it covers broader forms of corruption than what Mrs. Majkić may be, she may disagree with me, but believe me, corruption is something that has also been defined by the UN Convention against Corruption and the Council of Europe Convention against Corruption. And our criminal legislation, the material and criminal legislation, which is prescribed by criminal acts, has respected the views of these conventions and incorporated them into our positive criminal legislation. So, here's only in the BiH Criminal Law and the entity laws under the corporation, I'm going to list some crimes that are not contained in this amendment, which was cited by Ms. Majkić, which are for example. abuse of position, she says, out of kindness. The law doesn't know that. Abuse of a position is an abuse of position, and it can only be committed with imagination. Whether you get yourself or someone else to get property-legal benefits, that's what the law says. Unaware work in the service is also a criminal act of corruption, taking and giving bribes is also a criminal act of corruption and the entire diapazon of criminal acts. I think that this definition, as it has been left in this code, is much broader and enables under this Article 13, as it is given in this code and in some other criminal acts that the law regulates and regulates international conventions on the fight against corruption, and not just this. This, I think, is a lot of rope and it's pretty stiff and I can't get all the forms of corruption under this amendment that Mrs. Majkić here formulated. I respect her knowledge of economic sciences, but this is a question of law and, behold, allow the working group of this amendment to refuse for these reasons.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3086	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3087	I know... why this amendment can't pass. Don't let anyone think I'm so unconscious to see why we insist on going through these three unblemished, three rows of this unwitting, that don't mean anything to this thing that's getting closer to the truth. Dear colleague Čolo, unwitting work in the Parliamentary Assembly – how can this be measured? That is, taking bribes. How do we get to it? So, these few items, I'm trying to start talking about corruption at all in this Parliamentary Assembly, if we can't find an agreement here and if this is supposed to be some kind of my insistence, I want to say the Serbian People's Delegates Club will support it and no one else has to. And that means something.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3088	Thank you very much. The next on the list is Adem Ibrahimpašić. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3089	He only has a replica before me.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3090	What? There's a replica, right? Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3091	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, guests, I need to respond to the tone of replica we heard from Mrs. Majkić and replace the argument for this amendment with tone and threat, however we behave that the delegates of the Serbian people will vote for this amendment. I express my disagreement with the tone that replaced the normal argument, which should have been offered in response to Čolo's argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3092	Thank you very much. Now you have to sit down because it's next, because I gave you my word, so now you're third again, but it doesn't matter. Don't be angry, I gave you my word, the microphone turned on, and the next one on the list is Mr. Branko Zrno, the last one. He's giving up. Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3093	Well, now we're in a bit of a weird situation. I'll take my word for it myself, because I thought I'd discuss this code a little bit, because, here, we're in phase two, we're in amendment. According to that, I don't have a lot of right to talk about this. Basically, I'm here, when it comes to amendments, it all makes sense to me, but it all just doesn't make sense to me the same way. The Codex, this code essentially rests on an ethical principle. The ethical principle – at least in the modern world or civilization we belong to – is a universal principle. There is nothing to be taken away from him, and there is nothing to be added to him. What we are trying to solve, or to determine, the amendments, has already been laid down by law, has been laid down by laws. Is there any need in the form of a code to extract what the law defined or under the law to repeat the law in the form of a code? It's a permanent question. I mean, and it's, it's basically, it's essentially a dilemma. And now we come to that – do we need a code like this at all or do we not need it? That's the central question. And so, for the amendments, do we even need amendments to this code or do we not need it? That's, that's my dilemma. Everything I've tried to find in it, I have an answer in the law. On the one hand, we don't need this code absolutely. If we look at it as an ethical category, which he essentially is and must be, forgive me, but ethics is a little bit different, ethics are not taught by people from 40, 50 or 60 years old, ethics are taught in kindergarten and elementary school, I don't even think he's studying in high school. Whoever didn't bring her to high school is basically gone. But there's another categorization on that plan, and then there's categorization 22 that's psychologically and physiologically solved on another scientific property, from a unstable person, through a deviant, etc., that I don't enter an area I don't know. That much if this was any part of the debate. Although I'm not far from supporting that proposal offered by our colleagues, even though I don't understand why... they even offered a code like this either to teach me or to teach me. They have nothing to teach me, I speak for myself, they have nothing to teach me, they will teach me, they will not teach me this code. And secondly, I would like to, please, just one more remark, when we talk about the code of conduct and this House, everyone is responsible for themselves. We are a collective as a parliament, but we all have our own name and name and everything we do exclusively and we must do on our own behalf and in our own name. Now, that's already the right level of responsibility. And what's being transferred, often I hear, and the unemployed, the answer is yes or no, the collective doesn't deserve and can't be labelled that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3094	Thank you very much. Mr. Vidović, was it a replica, I apologize? No, then press this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3095	Thank you, Mr. President. I was thinking of giving up the public debate, because most of it was said by Mr. Rajić and Zrno. But here, when I got my word, no matter what the amendment phase, I let myself say my own thinking when it comes to defining how elected officials behave, what the ambition of the Joint Commission and this document is here before us. But what I will repeat, which I agree, is that the behavior here, first of all, comes from raising in the family, from culture, from education, from responsibility through the oaths we made in taking over our mandates. However, I understood the ambition of this joint commission that this document makes sense and needs BiH to have both, and in this regard, of course, I support it. Experiences say, therefore, mine and what we have been tracking through the media, so BiH has not seen in parliaments and at the level of BiH and at entity level any misbehaving that would deserve to be shaped by the code of conduct. There have been different reflections, but what has been happening and happening in some parliaments, so they fight with purses and umbrellas, and, I don't know, etc., I believe that neither in such parliaments will the code of conduct, if there are such advocates and ambitions, it won't even frame it. However, it is evident that a lot of efforts have been made by the Joint Committee of the two Houses of Representatives through the work of this committee and the first-stage review, so the amendments and the adoption of the amendments, and here we have come to one, as this report states, the unanimous proposal of the Joint Commission from both homes. I, in that sense, appreciate the efforts of my fellow MPs. And here I am, actually, calling to say that I will support this proposal for a code of conduct, regardless of all these remarks that we have highlighted here. If there's an individual malnutrition, which we haven't noticed here, I don't think the code will shape it. So, I support this text that has been agreed, without the proposed amendment today. Thank you very much. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3096	Thank you very much. Mr Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3097	Here, dear colleagues and Mrs. Majkić, I will talk about this second amendment of yours. And every session of this committee where I've been, I've been tearing this down and saying why. Maybe I wasn't straight enough, so now I'm going to, don't mind me, I'm going to take myself and an example of one that's going to be a picture of this. So, a year and a half ago, a year and eight months ago, I proposed a law amending the Customs Tariff Act here to this home. And that's how everything that's important to us is being moved out of here so it goes to the Directorate for indirect taxation, to ask for an opinion and then put it in a drawer and it doesn't, it doesn't, and eventually the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is signed, and the economic part of that agreement starts to apply from 1. Seven, and I'm on my own, so here's why. So, I bought malt in Gradiška or Nova Gradiška in Croatia, bought malt, an example of one, meaning repromaterial, let's say, raw materials, it doesn't matter. In Graz, say, 500 marks is a ton. When I buy in Graz, I come to our border, this one takes 10% of my customs, because it was customs. When I buy in Gradiška, it raises its price, and it does not, it has a duty-free regime with Croatia, and it raises its price of about 10%. And they can't do that to their brewers in Croatia, because they had a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and they could buy in Graz wherever they wanted, everything would be the same. And now that I'm reading this, I can't do it in this way. So I'm gonna cut this amendment short. 'All forms of behavior aimed at law-making,' there is more, but I am now reading only, 'who go in favour of elected officials, individuals, groups or companies in the public or private sector'. Well, I've got a company that's doing it, and this is for the greater good of all the companies, because they've been robbing us there, and it's been robbing us for years. Look, you couldn't have noticed, you don't have a company like me, you didn't come. And until I came to this Parliament, about that stood, and so it worked for 13 years, 12 years, 11, it doesn't matter, on the burden of these, I'm not competitive on my own market, because in the calculations I have what my competitors from Croatia don't have, and then it's said - why don't you export? This is why I shouldn't be doing it. I'd come into conflict of interest. And I don't think that's right, there.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3098	Thank you. First, is it a replica? Replica, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3099	... colleague Adem, you understand that very well. Terrible, that's exactly what I meant. That's exactly what the content of this amendment is. You're in conflict of interest if you're doing what you're, which is, you're proposing a law that goes in favor of your firm, then you're in conflict of interest. That's what I'm talking about, and that's why it's important that this goes away. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3100	...so I'm saying now, I've noticed it on my back, you haven't, you don't have a business. And as long as I didn't come to this House, no one mentioned it. And now, if I now... write and sign, I don't sign. If that's the point, then, is it. And it's not, it can't, I mean you can't. Whoever you tell this to will be told that I'm right as they say. I am therefore not... but because I have been put into a situation that I am uncompetitive in my own market towards competition from Croatia. And whose fault is that? It's mine, too, but it's too bad for the whole bh. the economy. It's the same thing that happened with the repromaries in Serbia, you have a duty-free regime, and you don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3101	Thank you very much. Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3102	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your word. I welcome my colleagues and gentlemen from the Council of Ministers. The story of the Proposed Code of Conduct for MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been in front of us for almost two years now. We know everything there is and what procedure has been conducted so far. It is also known that the House of Representatives also considered and adopted the proposed code of conduct in the second reading. We know what activities have been carried out with regard to the Joint Commission itself on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, asylum and ethics, and the subcommittee formed by the Commission. We also know those other procedures, the opinions of the civil sector, the position of the OSCE and other individual institutions involved in these activities on the adoption of one such act. I join those views and opinions... which we have had the opportunity to hear that such an act is necessary and necessary for the BiH Parliament, that it must simply regulate the rules of conduct of MPs and delegates. I disagree with those who claim that there were no individual situations which, if there were a code in such situations, should have been sanctioned. Therefore, it is one additional reason why, although it is not about principles, we have long spoken of it, I agree with colleagues who have supported the adoption of such an act. Since the House of Representatives also adopted the Code of Conduct in the second reading, we remain to declare today at this session on the renewed amendments by Mrs. Majkić. All the other debate, I think it's unnecessary. I propose that we approach the vote and, of course, after that, we conclude that, following the adoption of this Code, we shall assign to the Commission for Human Rights, or this subcommittee to adopt an implementing act which will regulate the procedure itself in case certain infringements of that Code of Conduct, in which way the application is submitted, who is conducting the procedure, in which evidence is collected and how the measures, i.e. the right to appeal and what is next in that Implementing Act are expressed. I wouldn't really say anything anymore. I suggest we make a statement on the amendments we have heard from Mrs. Majkić and end this debate. Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3103	I don't have any more charges to argue with. Now I've got it. Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3104	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, the Bošnjak klub is the position that the Parliamentary Assembly needs a code for MPs and we will support the proposal for a code that came from the competent commission. What I'm still trying to say is that no matter what is in this code contains things that are already prescribed by certain regulations, laws, it's true that maybe here it didn't have to be contained in this code, but that still doesn't mean we don't need a code. We need the Code to prescribe our behaviour, and those that are not already contained in the positive regulations, whether, in the Rules of Procedure, the Law of Conflict of Interest, etc., it is necessary to prescribe prohibited behaviours, measures for this, as well as the competent authorities and procedure for implementing the procedure, if any, is in breach of the code. In this code are contained, conditionally stated, forbidden behavior for us MPs and what I lack, what is missing, and what I think is a serious failure and interference is what these forbidden things are not divided into in order to prescribe which are easier and which are serious injuries. Because depending on this, that fact is also sanctioned: warning, fine, public notice with publication. And all of this should be applied by a first-degree and second-degree organ. When we adopt this code, and if its application occurs, in the first instance of the infringement, and the application and implementation of the procedure of determining the responsibility of a Member or delegate, it is precisely these bodies that will be in the dilemma of whether it is a minor or serious injury and which, possibly, will be applied to sanctions. In this present, existing, they will be able to assess in any particular case whether it's one or another type of injury, so on the basis of whether, or whether it's even an injury and instead of giving the appropriate sanctions. My proposal for this – therefore, I did not want, as an individual, to share these injuries on a lighter and more difficult basis, so that I act as an amendment, given that this came from the committee in charge – is that once we adopt this initiative to the Commission to look at this, divide it, so that, through changes and additions, the sooner these divisions are carried out in a easier and more difficult way, and in order to facilitate the application of this code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3105	Thank you very much. I don't think I have any more charges to argue with right now. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3106	There's still another amendment we haven't talked about. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3107	Well, we haven't even made a statement yet, it's just going procedurally, my questions, although I'm a little surprised by the depth and width of the debate on the Code of Conduct proposal compared to some other acts we've had today, but good. Procedurally, the amendments not adopted by this commission, proposed by Ms Majkić, should first be made known. The first amendment we heard, his explanation, Mrs. Majkić. We also heard the views of this committee... why against it, and those agreed amendments adopted by the Joint Commission, they became an integral part of the law. So if we adopt this committee's proposal, then we adopt it in the form in which it was adopted at the House of Representatives, so we all know it. Now we need to make a statement about the amandman and which Mrs. Majkić submitted. Please prepare for a plea. You can vote! I find that with eight votes "against", one "abstained" and five "for"..., this amendment has been rejected. Amendment II applies... Mrs. Majkić, do you want to explain him?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3108	So, in Article 24. The bill says: "The elected official can appeal to the Joint College of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly for the measures put forward by the Joint Commission." I propose to amend it in terms of: that the Joint Commission's actions under the position (1) of this member of the elected official may be appealed to the Joint Commission for Administrative Affairs of the Parliamentary Assembly. Why would I suggest that? The status issues of MPs and delegates, as well as all individual acts regulating salaries and material fees, are given in the jurisdiction of the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs. Therefore, it is the exclusive competence to decide on status issues and material fees of Members and delegates and its decisions are final. Therefore, this code is one of the measures that determines a fine which is likely to affect the receipt of MPs, and accordingly it would make sense to have jurisdiction on the Administrative Commission and not on the College. Here, that's an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3109	...how one commission is in charge of another commission of the same home?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3110	27 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3111	Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3112	I would just like to tell you the reasons why this amendment has not been accepted. He was usually part of an amendment tabled by an MP in the House of Representatives, Mr. Lazar Prodanović, and it consisted of three positions. Two views of the amendment have been accepted, Mrs. Majkić has taken over the amendment, two attitudes have been accepted, one has not been accepted, and that is now this Amendment II that is to be submitted here. This is what we have been handling: the decisions of the Joint Commission are final, but we felt that the Joint Committee on Human Rights, which is also common, as is this administrative one, numbers 12 MPs and delegates from both homes. So this board of administration would appear here as a second-degree body, as someone who is hierarchically higher than the Joint Commission for Human Rights, those in the Rules of Procedure are equal. They are equal according to the Rules of Procedure and we have assessed it as a reason that it is better for the College to decide by appeal. However, here is no dispute, we have accepted this amendment that this procedural act, which will regulate the procedure for the implementation of this code, will be adopted by these two commissions, means the Joint Committee on Human Rights, with the consent of the Administrative Commission. So we're not excluding this committee that decides on the status rights of MPs and delegates, but we wanted to leave it to the College to decide in a second-degree procedure, a complaint procedure as one body that is slightly above these parliamentary commissions. But here, I think, as the manager of this task force, which was formed by the Joint Commission on Human Rights – we can accept this amendment by Mrs. Majkić if the House agrees with that, and then we will go to the alignment, because that amendment is not accepted at the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3113	Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3114	So, all commissions, all their decisions must come to this home to confirm it, only the decisions of the Administrative Commission are not confirmed. So it's not the same level of all commissions. The administrative commission's decisions are over and only a court can kill them. So we can't say that all commissions are the same. The decisions of the Administrative Commission shall not be confirmed by the House, i.e. at home. And that's why it was logical that the College didn't deal with that commission that normally deals with the rights of MPs, I think and delegates, and that's why it makes sense to me, too, but I think it's more operational than to be in charge of such operational issues dealing with the College. If the College thinks it's his, it's his job that suits him, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3115	Mr. Neimarlija, did you get that? 28
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3116	To be honest, I'm surprised by the scope, the thoroughness of the debate on this code. And here's the need to express my opinion because, of course, as a member of the Bošnjak klub, I gave my colleague Rančić what he said, although I do not keep this code necessary and in many ways I share actually the opinion expressed by my colleague Rajić. However, this is not the reason for me to appear, but I am merely presenting one of my additional understandings and questions of this code, including these discussions, and in this context, and also this amendment, which is here, here, according to the proposal and the representatives of the Commission for the drafting of this Code, possible passing in terms of some formal obstacles which led the Commission not to accept, because the Administrative Commission would not be entrusted to the Commission for Human Rights. However, it is the fact that we need this code because, among other things, it is justified that our codes of conduct do not work, for example, in some other areas of our life. Well, if we had, let's say, now I'm likely to be pulled by media representatives, and I'm not in a position to particularly explain it, let's say the media respects the unwritten codes of journalistic behavior, so that MPs in this House treat the differentiated, not collectively, and not the party, then we shouldn't really have the code. We need this code because our work is not treated according to some both moral and ethical, but others here are the requirements, but above all this moral and ethical. And on the other hand, so we're forced, if others don't treat us according to the fact that everything that's forbidden by law is not allowed, let's say that we ourselves are subject to, and here's the morale-ethical court that matters to the content of this code. On the other hand, I think it is more appropriate for it to remain as proposed, because I hold that the College is responsible for representing Parliament and that, in some ways, responsibility for the individual behaviour of MPs and delegates which, in some ways, is not seen in the public as individuals, but through which the Assembly is seen. And the College represents the Parliamentary Assembly, and on this side I am actually just saying one argument and proposing to Mrs Majkić, as a reason why I am to remain the previous Commission solution. It is more logical that this last court on the actions of MPs and delegates who deserve some sanctions, I say, still brings a body representing the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3117	Thank you very much. I think we've heard arguments and there's no need anymore. If you don't mind, let's close the discussion on this. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3118	Thank you very much. Since I'm in charge of reporting on this issue from the Committee, I've kept my mouth shut all the time. A reason? From the first day we joined this business, it's been thinking whether this code is a law or a norm. And all the time we've got polarization here in this house, and I know that with colleagues in the House of Representatives, if we're passing the whole procedure of the law, that regulation that we're bringing ourselves, then it has to have the following elements as well. And 29, here we are now in this dilemma. If someone utters a measure, they must have someone to complain to. It immediately has the form of a judicial or judgmental act, where they must play the role of a body or even a suggestion to do so in courts. In order not to spread here, the honourable envoy of Neimarlija answered in a good way what led us to accept that the College would make the final decision. Because it's about moral principles, and it's not about hurting the right man. Therefore, it is not proposed to impose a penalty from what is called wages or from what is necessarily the right or obligations of employees or envoys, but from the part that belongs to him for his work and work, and where he can in this way influence himself in the financial part, which is the flat-rate. It seems quite logical that not the committees make such a decision, but those in charge of representing the House in public.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3119	Thank you very much. I suggest we make a statement now about amandman II.. Prepare to vote. You can vote! I find that, with seven votes "against", five "for" and two "abstained", and this amendment has been rejected. We approach the vote on the Code Proposal as a whole. Prepare to vote. You can vote! I find that, with 13 votes "for", one "against", this code is adopted in the same text as at the House of Representatives. We're going to the sixth point, that's "Ad." Six. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports in BiH – Proposer: Constitutional Commission (second reading) The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. You've reached the committee's report. The Commission passed the law, there was no amendment. Is anyone answering their word? There's no one interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote, one second. You can vote! Eight votes "for", four "against", one "abstained", the general majority exists. From RS one "for", four "against", there is no third. 30 This should go to a match. Since there is no third member of the College, that this commission cannot be formed without a third member of the College, today we will not plead and the College of the Peoples will meet by... a third member of the College and try to reach a common solution. If it doesn't, then we'll have a new statement at the next session. We're going to the seventh point, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Classification of Activities in BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3123	Here is a proposal for a bill proposed by the competent commission and which can be said to have been applied to a newer quality approach to the Intelligence and Security Agency. Therefore, on the 109th members of the law, the Commission has made 16 members, amended members. And they are the fruit of a comprehensive analysis of the implementation of the General Intelligence and Security Agency Act and 31 of its compliance with modern democratic standards. We know that the draft law was attended by all those who were to participate, the obavještajan and Security Agency itself, the Ministry of Security, the OSCE, NATO, the EUPM, OHR and others. So, it seems to me that the most significant principle that is commendable, which is included in the proposed amendment, is that mandatory security verification of members of the Joint Commission be abolished by the Intelligence and Security... This is the key thing, I think, that those who have been appointed are checking their MPs and delegates of the Parliamentary Assembly and that is one of the newspapers that is so important and should be pointed at. Secondly, if it's the responsibility of the Joint Commission to oversee the legality of the OBA, then it's pointless that it checks out those same members and I think it's a recommendation that came from different sources, but I think lately, I think, even from the Ministry of Security to signal that something like that should not be accepted and that it's actually contrary to NATO standards. So I assume that this commission, before it put it as a member of the amendment, that such a thing had previously agreed. Thirdly, what's also important is that there's finally been a change in this unhappily name of this commission, so it was really hard to say at all. So this commission was called the Joint Security and Intelligence Commission for... the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency. So now this commission is called the Joint Commission for Oversight over the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency, and that is already something that we can accept more easily in communication. Also, some responsibilities have been changed which have not been laid down by law so far, which is that the obligations of the Joint Commission are to consider the report of the Director-General on the development and cost of the Agency as well as an analysis of the budget of the institution. I, as chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, have never seen the report, the audit report of this institution, but this is now putting the agency under someone's supervision, someone will discuss it. So that's one good thing that's been introduced into the amendment to this law. The director has an obligation to file a report, but that report has not been adopted. So, the proposed amendments mean that... the report of the director of this agency is being adopted. So there are also a number of good things that are related to this law and according to this, given that a large number of changes are made, the Serbian People's Delegates Club believes that these amendments and additions to the law should be supported.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3124	Thank you very much. Is there more? Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3125	Thank you very much. Therefore, it is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Intelligence and Security Agency. Here, my colleague said about chronology. You know that we had laws in this area proposed by one MP, so here we are, after another 32 hours, agreeing to the text of the bill. As far as principles are concerned, therefore, the Bosniak Club will support the adoption of both this and the next law, so in this first reading, and hopefully also to see the light of the day of the second reading. Regarding one of the important things that is contained in these two laws in terms of principles, I would like to say that we have managed, since I am a member of this committee, the principle of Parliament's dignity and the dignity of MPs. Also, the principle of relations between the legislative and executive authorities, also on the principle of protecting the secrecy of domestic data, is meant by... and, as a fourth point, non-injuriousness, or the protection of the confidentiality of the data that arises, whether it is in bilateral, regional or international agreements between BiH and international, whether, organisation or regional institutions. These are the principles we took care of. The draft law was also attended by the restoring ministries and international institutions, and here I am asking all my colleagues to support the adoption of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3126	Thank you very much. Is there more? There's Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3127	I'd only say two or three sentences. Perhaps, as vice chairman of this committee, I am in charge as rapporteur. So, colleagues have already said in the debate that essential issues have been identified, that, with the consultation of all the factors involved in these issues, solutions are proposed and there is clearly a climate to support the principles of this law. And in further procedure, we'll see if there's a need to do anything about it. However, we have addressed those areas for which we have assessed in practice to represent difficulties, ambiguities, beginning with names, competences of the Agency, protection of classified data, security verification systems, labour rights arising from these jurisdictions, appeal procedures, etc. That's what we've cleaned up. I hope that in phase two, when we talk about the amendment, we may have some benefits, some people who will improve this text. So I encourage these colleagues to support the proposal at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3128	Thank you very much. No more reports. Prepare to vote. You can vote! I find that this law has received 14 votes "yes" and has thus been adopted in the first reading. 33 We move to the ninth point: Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Secret Information (First Reading) – Proposer: Joint Security and Intelligence Commission for the Control of the Work of the Security and Security Agency of BiH You have received the bill of law and the opinion of the Joint Commission. The Commission accepts the principles of law. The House of Representatives passed the law in its first reading. This is the first reading of the law and first there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3130	Eh, here I have an objection to the work of this commission for the simple reason that it exists in the Parliamentary Assembly, (colonel Rančić, I think, until Mr Adem ends)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3131	You again! Gentlemen, Mrs. Majkić's warning you again, or I'm warning you on her behalf.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3132	So there is a document in the Parliamentary Assembly called the Unique Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to this document,... means the Single Rules of Article 46(3): 'If more than half of the members of the basic regulation are amended, or complemented, it is necessary to access the adoption of a new regulation.' That thing should've been told by the secretary of the commission who did this job, a big job. Because what happened? On 88 members of the basic law, 52 members were amended. Only article 15 had about nine different versions from a) to f), I don't know. So 60% of the law has been amended. Now, if the question is asked, what is, in fact, the rest to be valid?, man can no longer cope with that extent of change. Now it's not clear to me why this commission didn't approach the works and then a comprehensive law that's simple, manageable, easily readable!? This is not how people who are experts in the legal area can manage, let alone the people and MPs and delegates of the Parliamentary Assembly. So this unique rule envisioned making a new law. I suggest, if there's still a chance, to make a new law, that this commission continues to work and make a new law. Because our laws are so problematic from the aspect of demand, reading, finding a large number of changes that no one agrees with at the end, so here's my suggestion, so I can't cope with so many changes. I don't know what the law looks like when you look at it together now. That's it, that's it. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3133	Thank you very much. Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3134	Thank you very much. I'll remind you again. It is about first reading and this law and respected colleague Majkić, who was just in the discussion about the OSA Law, who had just supported the things contained in this law and related to the security check. So here I am, so, okay, thank you very much, so we understood each other in the same way. That's one thing. The second thing, 37 members are in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, and the basic text of this law has 88 members. So, even here in that technical section, relying on the Single Rules, it's not more than half. But the important thing is not to amend and supplement certain provisions of the existing Code on the Protection of Secret Information but to introduce new things that were not contained in the basic text of the law with the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of Secret Information. So most of all in this section about the introduction of new members 15.a. to 15.i.) is about industrial, whether security permits and procedures related to it, which was not at all contained in the existing law, and we need that thing, so we have the law. And some other similar things which, therefore new, are regulated in a completely new way by this new law, and were not contained in the basic text of this law. Here, I have no doubt that we will support the principles contained in this law and that we will let this law go into further procedure and, eventually, if there are any amendments and additions both to our joint work and to the commission and amendments... MPs, of course, any correction is welcome. Thank you very much, and please support this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3135	Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3136	We will support this law, but the experience of taking one, that if more than 60% of the law changes, we go to new law. We can't handle our laws anymore. The way people work at them, it's terrible!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3137	Thank you very much. Mr. Rajić. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3138	Okay, I am obliged as rapporteur of this committee to say that we were dealing with this thought spoken of by Mrs. Majkić. Our calculations show that there is no change in the percentage of existing law norms and that that is not how the general principle of regulation, on the one hand, is violated. And, on the other hand, if that information were correct, there were a number of new provisions, new norms in the law that were not here, they didn't exist at all. Therefore, it is not about changes but about additions, which are two different quality changes and additions. Therefore, we as the Joint Committee have passed this procedure, the Constitutional Commission has passed, the House of Representatives has passed, no one has noticed that kind of remark. Maybe you're right, but I don't think we can handle it like that now, so let's check it out one more time. We stand in this committee's view that the law is based on general norms and that no rule has been broken to change more than the permitted amount of regulations.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3139	Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3140	Chairman, you may be, but I'm fighting for something and I'm trying to...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3141	No way, I can see there's no way.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3142	No, no, so nothing, please, if this conversation of ours has a chance that next time there's a new law there's no change, let it be a new law, I've achieved what I wanted. So it doesn't matter, and it counts everything, and the change and the supplement, and it all counts, and when everything counts, 52 members have changed, it means 60% of the law. And so, they were all basics, but I, it's not this commission's fault, it's the secretary's commission's fault that doesn't warn you of what you should be warning about. So it's just a dilemma, it needs a new law when there's so many changes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3143	Thank you. We now declare the law. This is the first reading, so we vote on the law in the first reading. Prepare for a plea. You can vote! I find that, with 14 votes "yes", without the vote "against", without "abstained", this law was passed in the first reading. 36 We move to 10 points: Ad. Ten. Proposed law on minor perpetrators of criminal offences and criminal justice protection of children and minors (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You've received the bill's proposal as well as the Commission's opinion. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. It suggests that a public debate be held together with the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives. The House of Representatives passed the law in the first reading, with the conclusion that a public debate is being held. This is the first reading. There is a debate on necessity and principles. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3145	Dear Chairman, we are today given a letter from the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council asking the Council of Ministers, and we are also informed, asking for the withdrawal of this law, because the law in a completely different way regulates the issue of preparatory proceedings against minors, I do not know how much you know, according to minors, there is no investigation procedure. The procedure is called preparation and is led by judges for minors under existing legislation, BiH's criminal law. This law has one essential paper, which is that the preparatory procedure is passed on to the juvenile prosecutor. So, a special prosecutor is being introduced, it's the prosecutor for minors who is now due to conduct this preparatory procedure, there's an investigation against minor perpetrators of crimes. In 2003, we had a reform of criminal law when we abolished an investigative judge, so we introduced a prosecutor who was conducting an investigation, who was responsible for detecting and conducting an investigation against the perpetrators of crimes. We had a situation where, overnight, a prosecutor was introduced into our criminal justice system as the person who officially conducted the investigation, and we kicked the coroner out of criminal proceedings. Other countries when they reform criminal legislation like this, believe me, leave a very long vaccio legion. This is the period from the date of entry into force of the law until its application begins. So sometimes it is, that deadline, and a year, sometimes when a trial period is introduced to try how this law will apply in practice. BiH had to adopt criminal procedural legislation overnight. I remember in 2003 that on July 29th, the Criminal Law of the Federation came into force, and since 1 August it has been applied. We haven't had eight days of vaccio legislation for one such serious reform in criminal procedural legislation and criminally material law. Now we have this law ahead of us about minor perpetrators of criminal acts, it's both material and procedural law at the same time. So they regulate both material criminal law and procedural law when it comes to juvenile perpetrators of criminal acts, they introduce a juvenile prosecutor. We have a memo from a very serious institution, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, which says it is demanding the withdrawal of the law, because experts in this area have not made a statement about this law, so those who need to implement the law, prosecutors and judges in this country. 37 I would like to remind you of one business provision, that is Article 100 (4) of the Rules of Procedure which says that the law can be withdrawn: 'The proposer has the right to withdraw the bill until the debate on the draft law is concluded in the first reading.' The law passed the first reading in the House of Representatives, we still haven't concluded the debate here and I call on whoever has the right to withdraw the law to declare whether it will withdraw the law, because I don't think we are able to remove all these dilemmas that remain in the law, which the profession has not had the opportunity to declare. Well, here's the minister of justice. Does he have the powers of the Council of Ministers and should they take the appropriate stance on the letter of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council? I'd like to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3146	Mrs. Majkić answered her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3147	Just an addition to what Mrs. Čolo said. One material that we have received, a request from the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, another from the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, which is also seeking it, so the Co-ordination Body for monitoring the implementation of the Strategy against Juvenile Crimes for BiH is asking to withdraw the law from the procedure because it has a large number of objections to it. So two very significant institutions demand that the law be withdrawn. Now, it would be good for the Ministry to do that, so we don't move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3148	There's Mr. Minister Čolak, so I suggest that in this address, he resolves these dilemmas first.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3149	Mr. Chairman, the esteemed envoys of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, you have already heard that this law passed in the first reading at the House of Representatives and then a motion for withdrawal by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees appeared. You also know that a decision has been made, i.e. the conclusion that a public debate is being held. It's all true what the esteemed envoy said that since 2003 we have introduced new institutes into our criminal justice system and this is now just tracking it, so what we've already done. And in one area that is extremely important, which is extremely sensitive, because it is a matter of minor perpetrators of criminal acts, there are, of course, international conventions that govern this area, but it should be said that all those who should have been consulted in the drafting of this law have been consulted, have had the opportunity to participate in me too, and I am a little angry why, in fact, when the law comes into this phase, this is how it is done. I don't think that's good, because it just slows down the whole process, and this is one matter that needs to be arranged, and I think it's very good to do it in one place in one law. Because there are both material and procedural laws, there is a law of course that speaks of the enforcement of criminal sanctions against minors at national level, there are, of course, entity laws. If this law is adopted in the parliamentary procedure in due time, then, of course, entities and Brcko District will also align their legislation in this area 38 with these changes already proposed or possibly be something different... through amendments changed, therefore adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. First of all, I want to say that all those who, I said so already, should have been consulted were consulted, who should have participated in the drafting of this law were involved. I responded to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council on 28.11. this year and told them... that the bill was done by one working group that they formed, here I just want to read to you, Jasmina Kosović, Judge of the Court of BiH, Miodrag Simović, Judge of the Constitutional Court of BiH and Professor of the Faculty of Law in Banja Luka, Hajrija Sijerčić, Professor of the Faculty of Law in Sarajevo, Jasmina Pećanac, Prosecutor of the Cantonal Prosecutors of Sarajevo and others, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, NGOs and others. This indicates and disproves the allegations of this act delivered to us by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council that no professionals from this area participated in the preparation of the text of the law. The final version is precisely the product of those persons from these institutions. But I would also like to say that this ministry, before the process of adopting this bill, has delivered to the consultation the submission of proposals and recommendations as well as opinions and the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, on that day 19. 3. 2008; Federal Ministry of Justice of BiH 19. 3. 2008; Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia 19th 3.; Justice Commission of the Brcko District 19. 3.; and the Faculty of Law in Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Mostar; Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, all therefore 19. 3. Also, with a new act of 14. 5. In 2008, we again submitted the draft law to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH and asked this authority to comply with Article 17 of point 28. The VST Act gives its opinion. In accordance with the rules and consultations, the draft law was in April and May of the current year on the Ministry's website, 30 days as long as the rules allow. However, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, as well as most of these, did not deliver the requested opinion, nor did they respond to our acts at all. The Justice Ministry, expecting an opinion, submitted the bill to the BiH Council of Ministers only 29. The 8th of the current year. In addition to this, I would like to inform you that 1.12 means the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has set a term, so that's when they brought this term for public debate on minor perpetrators of criminal offences, I don't know, I don't think that term, I'm not sure when it is, but it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3150	16
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3151	Is it 16? 16 here's good, that's it. Now I can, of course, answer these questions, of course, if there is a need for the law itself that I can.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3152	But if I figure it out, you're not pulling the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3153	No, I don't. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3154	All right, are there any more interested? Mr. Koprivica. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? I don't, believe me, here, and I have, I'm sorry. Mr. Koprivic, I must give Mr. Zrna first. I'm sorry, then I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3156	Well, well, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry I didn't get the word before Mr. Secretary. Some things I've already, I've looked at, I've marked myself and mostly on the background of what's been said, because this memo I just can't take seriously. He's talking about the problem from one angle only, from the expert angle. Gentlemen, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH is an expert in law enforcement cases, so I cannot condition the adoption of the law. Experts carry out what's called the law. And so I am a little surprised by this alibi, the conclusion: 'Is there a sufficient number of prosecutors in the prosecution, will this law reflect on the internal organization of the Prosecutor's Office?' which is out of mind, indeed, out of mind. What are they? Closed space with strictly fixed figures that must not be moved, a space where no one enters, a space that does not allow for a new function that this law also provides. Respecting their expertise, I assumed and gave myself the right to say that I deeply believe, given the ministry's seriousness, that they were consulted, here from this offer, we saw that they were – that all who were to be consulted were consulted. Without, I'm not saying this without, I'm not saying this to defend neither the minister's position nor the Ministry's position, nor this law. Because we allowed ourselves at least in that home, and hopefully we'll do this, and this is actually a debate, but also a statement of what: about principles. We have left enough space for ourselves in public debate, in public debate, I don't know, I haven't seen the conclusions of the House of Representatives – whether those who write to us are involved. Let them get involved in a public debate, let them act on supplementals and amendments to their proposals for additions and amendments, of course through us, because the law is in Parliament. Completing and amending this law? I don't mind that, but I don't think we can, and we don't need to stop a procedure that's of paramount importance for an entire population and for this country as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3157	Thank you very much. Mrs. Čolo. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3158	I would really like to thank the Minister for the additional clarifications, because he helped me understand for myself what the background of this letter was sent by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. The task force quoted by the minister working on this law shows that these are the most respectable people in the area of criminal procedural law, both theorists and practitioners. Because there are certainly the two professors most respectable dealing with this and the judges that I know who the judges have been practicing for many years and working against the minors' crimes. So I believe that behind this memo are the prosecution's views that they are not qualified to process under this law and, believe me, my remark was more of a precaution. Because this is a matter that is very serious and is intruding into fundamental human rights, both by the perpetrators and by those who have been damaged by these crimes, and here because of the procedure I asked the minister, because I thought they had the attitude – will they withdraw the law? And of course I think our club will support, here we all agree, to support the principles of this law. What these practitioners didn't agree with each other, let them propose in a public debate, and we'll try to amend this law in amendment. Thank you again, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3159	Thank you. Mr. Ivo Miro Jović, have Mr. Koprivica ready. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3160	Thank you very much. We were on the Constitutional Committee of our home when we discussed the bill, which we received from the Council of Ministers, were a little caught up in. An integral part of the Council of Ministers is one ministry that gives a different opinion on the bill's proposal. However, we received here today at the table, members and this Constitutional Commission, a letter sent by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council through the chairman of Mr. Novaković. And in the very top chapter, you will see that there is no relationship between the BiH Parliament and two homes alike. The Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives received this letter in due time, and our Constitutional Commission of this House only gets it today on the tables. If you look at the dates, then you will see that this letter came into this building or into our home before the Constitutional Commission of the People's House considered it. We would have had a completely different discussion and had our own judgment and opinions on the whole issue. But what the esteemed representative Zrno said, it gets into the eyes of two things, the timidness of work, if given to such an institution, it seems to me a big problem to be afraid of work. What if it happens and we get that part of the job? We don't have a prosecutor, I don't know, and I don't know if the organization's gonna break up the way it is, so on and so forth? In particular, I'm bothered by the invitation to a public hearing, and that it is primarily attended by judges and prosecutors. It is especially true that such laws and measures are primarily called parents, breeders, educational systems, and clergy, etc. but those who commit repression over something that has already been done. And in the law itself, here we have, here's one title: "The role of the body of custody." What's there to look for in custody for a judge and prosecutor? Or something like that, secondly,... I think this letter itself was made in a cramp in some way and 41 so I have the right to judge about it, that not all the factors that were necessary and equal in both homes are counted, that there has been an absence of the real things that would indicate why the law should be withdrawn, because there is not one element here except that man is afraid of work. As an institution, it is the body of the government, or the judicial body of the authorities that needs to do the job and what the law requires, and we are in charge of passing the law. I guess we'll also think about the burden of the job, so we'll increase the number of prosecutors if necessary and necessary. And what's the problem with the social community this problem is dealing with? Well, we were supposed to pass the law yesterday, not tomorrow! That is why I am not in any way not to make a decision today as suggested by the Constitutional Commission of our House.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3161	Thank you very much. Mr. Koprivica, let Mr. Vidović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3162	Thank you, Mr. President. I... don't have the same opinion Mr. Jović said in his previous presentation. I really support what we have seen in previous discussions, given that we have both such views and interpretations of such institutions as the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, and as is the Ministry of Human Rights of BiH, and also the fact that some other significant institutions at all levels of BiH authorities have different views and opinions when it comes to the adoption of such a law, as well as certain contradictions in terms of interpreting the very competence to adopt such a law, I suggest that we postpone the statement on this law for the next session, and that in this period we get a clearer picture of how we delegates and gentlemen from the Ministry, given all these reasons we have heard about and against making decisions at this session today's session. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3163	First Mr. Vidović, then Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3164	Thank you, Mr. President. And I'm a member of the Constitutional Commission. Here, the chairman Mr. Jović spoke of our conclusion that you have here and I voted for this law, so here I feel the need to say why. So, under number 1 – because the Official Proposer on the Constitutional Legal Commission, and today it is Minister Čolak and clearly supported by an additional explanation, said that the law is important, that the law is serious, that the law is needed, that it is large, we see, of course, by its number of pages. And especially what is important to say is that not only the representatives of the competent ministry but experts from this area participated in the draft law, as well as experts from this area, here is the number of speakers, Minister Čolak made that clear. And I think all possible dilemmas about here at this point the withdrawal of this law have been removed from me, so absolutely. Respecting the institution of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, perhaps the biggest mistake is that such a warning did not come at the very beginning, is it, so perhaps these dilemmas would be removed even in the making of the law itself. I, of course, support the principles of this law at this stage absolutely, yes. 42 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3165	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3166	On behalf of the club, I'm looking for a break 15 minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3167	I must meet the request of the chairman of the club according to my Rules of Procedure. 15 minutes break, but please be 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3168	Can we make it a lunch break and come back after that?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3169	We're leaving. It's early for lunch. We've got a lot of dots, I want to make you do a little bit more work.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3170	Okay. Let's go for 15 minutes, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3171	I think it's enough and 10.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3172	Aren't we working?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3173	I think it's enough and 10. Is 10 enough? Ten minutes break. [[PAUZA]] Since Mrs. Majkić asked for a break, it is her turn to explain her request for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3175	Well, here's what we've been trying to figure out, so we can't ignore that there are two letters. So, the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. Okay, this is really questionable for a proposal to come from one ministry, and 43 from the other ministry comes request to withdraw. That's, that's the thing to discuss at the Council of Ministers. And the other thing is that between this one who is right – with all due respect for Mr. Čolak, I really know that he is a serious man and that his proposals always go through – but because of this thing that happened to us, I ask you that we should not be in a dilemma, we cannot vote by heart. So, I suggest that the statement of this law be postponed until the public debate is over. We haven't lost anything, because we'll adopt it then, we'll hear objections at the public hearing. Is that the number of objections mentioned by these two institutions? Is it true... because Mr. Safet Halilović is signing on behalf of this Coordination Body to monitor the implementation of the Strategy. Well, I can't say it means nothing to me. So, I'm asking you to postpone your statement on this agenda point... so we don't question the law. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3176	Are there any objections or should we accept this? Can we take it? Since we are in this way, then not to plead, but to realize that the College agreed with the presidents of the clubs of the people to plead after a public debate. This means that our representatives can participate in a public debate, too, so that we understand each other. Thank you very much. Are we still going to decide? All right, then prepare for a plea. Who's to this conclusion I suggested? You can vote! Thank you, I realize this conclusion was adopted, with 14 votes "yes". We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law on the Protection and Wellbeing of Animals (first reading) You've received the bill's proposal as well as the Commission's opinion. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. The House of Representatives passed the law in its first reading. This is the first reading. First there is a debate on the principles on which the law is based. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Majkić. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3178	So there are several reasons why this bill should be supported. The first reason is that this is the first legal act at BiH level to regulate the area of animal protection and welfare. And indeed this country needs such a law. Another reason is the apparent non-responsibility towards BiH animals. Therefore, the adoption of such a law is a minimum of standards to be respected. The third reason is to respect the principles, its principles... This law is in line with European legislation, which improves the standards of keeping and relations with animals. And finally,... by passing a law like this, BiH shows that it is on the path of the European partnership, because it is one of the laws that lies in the obligations of the European Partnership and that it should show its readiness to move on the European path. So, we have seen, we have been given the support that the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty of Animals, as the world's oldest animal welfare organization, founded in 1824, invited parliamentarians to support this law. So based on all these facts I've told you, the Serbian delegates' club will support the principles of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3179	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Prepare for a plea. You can vote! I find that, with 14 votes "yes", the law has received a majority and was adopted in the first reading. We're going to the 12th point, Ad. 12. Report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for the period January-December 2007 You have received a report on the execution of the Budget, as well as a report from the committee responsible. The House of Representatives adopted the report. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Report, Mrs. Majkić. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3181	I just feel the need for a few sentences to say. You can tell the report's pretty concise like this. You saw that, in practice, we shared institutions regarding the execution of the Budget. So, the first 17 institutions, these are institutions that had an execution of between 90% and 100%. The second part of an institution that has an execution of between 80% and 90% and the highest number of institutions, 29, has an execution of between 13% and 80%. This is how, perhaps most of all, falls into the eyes based on the unrealised, meaning the non-execution of the Budget, there are 72 million unused funds in BiH that could have been used for who knows what purposes and the question is simply: What is it that this amount of money has not been made, or realised, that these jobs or projects are not completed? It has been decidently put here what is, in fact, where the biggest problems are, but I suggest that the House, in addition to adopting this report, adopt these conclusions requiring the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury to take the necessary measures to improve the planning process of budget implementation control and to inform the Commission of the financing and budget measures taken. It also draws attention to the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury that it is necessary to respect the provisions of Article 22(2) of the Law on the financing of BiH institutions and, regularly, to submit six-month reports on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations, as it is mainly the case that the implementation of the budget comes as a single report that we can no longer influence. So we don't have six months of information on the state of budget execution. Under the 3rd, the House of Peoples asks the BiH Council of Ministers to respect the legal deadlines, to work out a draft bill on the BiH institutions' budget for next year. And also, number 4, the House of People asks the Council of Ministers to forward the draft law on the budget of the BiH institutions for 2009 as soon as possible to the Presidency so that the law can be found in the parliamentary procedure. I know it was delivered, but we didn't hold a session before that, so that's about the report with the conclusions proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3182	Thank you, thank you very much. No more reports. We can approach the plea, so now we're voting on the report. Prepare to vote. You can vote! Thank you very much, I realize that, with 14 votes "yes", this report has been adopted. We are now voting on the conclusions proposed by the committee in charge. Prepare to vote. 46 You can vote now: the conclusions of the committee in charge. I find that, with 14 votes "yes", these conclusions have been adopted. Moving to point 13, that's "Ad." 13. Information on the state of property delicacies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with an emphasis on the criminal act of estrangement of vehicles in 2006 and 2007 and in the first six months of 2008 You've received information, as well as the opinion of the committee responsible for supporting the information. The House of Representatives received information. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a duty to say a few words about the Information, since I also discussed this subject last year. Given the work that happened last year, I literally say, has shaken Trebinje and Herzegovina for almost seven or eight months and that it is a work that, unfortunately, and at this point appears in this area, but I believe that the authorities will do everything to prevent this work from happening last year, which has caused enormous damage to this part of the RS. Namely, the two-seat report mentioned that stolen vehicles are mostly transferred from BiH to Serbia-Montenegro. When we visited the Border Police Department in Capljina last year, we were told that a number of roads on that part of the Bosnian-Herzegovina border were unfettered, and the reason for this was the lack of financial resources. Now, these very unfettered roads are one of the main reasons why these stolen vehicles can easily be transferred to neighboring countries' territory. And that is why I really believe that financial resources should be provided in the budget of BiH in the coming year to enable the Border Police to prevent these roads, because then we were told in Capljina that the main reason why they cannot do so is the lack of financial resources. I believe, I expect it to be done this year, that the border police will get the funding that will allow her to finish that part of the job in the next period, because I think it is really necessary to do it on that part of the border. Otherwise, when this report is talked about and when it comes to this report, then my, come on, is a fundamental one remark that the Information on the state of property delicacies in BiH, with an emphasis on the crime – not alienation but theft of the vehicle. The law doesn't know how to alienate. The law knows how to steal. So we have to call this information a real name and a full name the way it really should be. And when we talk about the proposal for measures and actions that are given here, I can indeed accept 47, but what else is missing from all the measures and actions that are proposed: it is a lack of operators and deadlines that will clearly and precisely commit certain institutions to what they should do in the next period. It is also present in these proposals of measures and actions. I believe that such measures and such proposals cannot deliver all results until the operators of the activities and deadlines in which these measures and actions are met clearly and precisely. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3185	Thank you very much. I have more: Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3186	Thank you very much. Very short. We discussed this information on the Constitutional Committee, we suggested to the House to take it to the knowledge, but I can't help but say here, here's the esteemed representative of the Šaraba said, just one of the remarks. Because in this information several times it's been said: there's been a number of heavy thefts, then there's been heavy thefts, heavy thefts are registered, heavy thefts, and only alienation of the vehicle. I don't know what's the difference between whether or not there is, whether it's in legal practice alienation. I know there's this Marxist alienation in philosophy. But if there was someone to touch something so... to be alienation, I'm weird, it's for the qualification of a piece, that's what I'm talking about. And it kind of sounds like it to us from the last time Dad's sons did it. The second thing I wanted to say or, for example, it's different, I wouldn't bother you, he says, 'number of crimes and against property'. It's small for me, I don't know that someone who steals is against that property, but is against other people's property. You know what I'm talking about? It's kind of weird to me, here's what language means, in explicitity and clarity, I have a point.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3187	Thank you. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3188	Here, let me just look back on what Mr. Ivo Miro Jović said. The truth of these acts are called ‘property crimes’, ‘criminal crimes against property’, has a special head of the Criminal Law. And as far as this name is concerned, “an alienation of motor vehicles”, that is the fate of all this information that comes unseriously to Parliament, it is an earlier term, because we previously had a “criminal act of seizing a vehicle on a motor vehicle”, we haven’t had it since 2003, it’s a criminal act of theft. And heavy theft is just a way of committing this crime by robbing and breaking into a closed area. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3189	Thank you very much. I don't have any more logs. Now we need to make clear whether or not we will receive information? Prepare for a plea. You can plead. I find, just a little bit to see what I'm saying, that, with 12 votes "for", one "abstained", information received. Thank you very much. The information was received and the conclusions, right, to the knowledge. Let's move on. Moving to point 14. Ad. 14. Report by the Joint Committee on Harmonisation of the Proposal for the appointment of the Ombudsman in the Ombudsman Institution for Human Rights of BiH You've reached the Joint Commission's report. The Joint Commission has reached agreement on the appointment of the Ombudsman at the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution, and this: Jasminka Džumhur of the Bosniak people, Ivo Bradvica of the Croatian people. The House of Representatives adopted this commission's report. In accordance with Article 118. The Rules of Procedure must be voted on by the Joint Commission. Before that, I'm still opening up the debate. Are there any interested? There is, is that right, Mrs. Čolo first? No, then that's what's left before. Wait a minute, let me see... Mr. Neimarlija, so Mrs. Majkić, so Mr. Božo Rajić. That's what I got, so I got three so far, while I clean up a little bit, so I'll see how far it goes. Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3191	... in which a decision was taken to form this joint commission, thus making sure the formal validity of the election, regardless of what the validity was previously troubled and I accepted the argument that the election procedure could and should follow the law-making procedure. And in the meantime, this commission has done its job, and we have received, I suppose all the delegates that I have received, a play or two performances from Mr. Mariofil Ljubić, who informs us that the procedure has been injured and that it has been wronged. That is, there was procedurally a disputed transition at the session we had, right, his election or the election of the Ombudsman in the House of Representatives. That's what my colleague Rajić asked as a question. And now I really have a dilemma about the validity of the procedure, on the one hand, and on 49 I actually insist on it. On the other hand, I have one additional basic reason, so to say, in respect of Mariofil Ljubić as an Ombudsman and as our leader in this House, an additional one, although I have first and foremost in mind this procedural dispute, for me, and I suggest that we do not make this clear before answering the question that fellow Rajić asked and clarifying whether the procedure, which, on the other hand, raises the correctness of the decision we made last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3192	Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3193	So, I want to say a few words about this complex situation where we fell, I mean unnecessary, but here's what happened to us. So, the Joint Commission has made this proposal a conclusion, that is, this report as it has done and it is not disputed here, we see that they have made a deal. But she seems to me to have made one mistake, because she has reached a conclusion in the Conciliation Report asking the Ministry of Justice to deliver an opinion on the validity of the Joint Commission's procedure on the alignment of the proposal for appointing. The question is: the alignment is governed by the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure interpret the College, not the Ministry of Justice, so I suggest that this conclusion is not adopted. What I would still like to say is, there are really a number of open questions and certainly... that the Ombudsman issue will still be carried out significantly through these all of our circles and ultimately the question is what will actually happen from the whole process and because it is known that one number of people have filed a complaint against this contest, means a lawsuit to the Court of BiH. Secondly, others who think that this choice will be chosen ask, "When do we start doing this?" I don't really know that question. Who can answer them, how does it even begin, when that mandate begins, who calls for a hand-off session? These are all questions that have been left unanswered. What I've come to answer for in the first place, to talk about this point is exactly the reason... that we, both of us, have found ourselves in the position we are in. This is also, I think, a good message to the College, if a colleague of one and another at home had more common sessions to agree on these things, it wouldn't happen. This is how we'll unnecessarily get into all this trouble, any litigation, and the question of how this will all be regulated. So I'm not questioning the vote on this, but I'm afraid this doesn't end in the election of the Ombudsman. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3194	Thank you very much. Mr. Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3195	Thank you. 50 I will relate to this part of the debate that Mr. Neimarlija was talking about. So, I don't doubt it, I'm convinced that the procedure has been violated and that there is no valid business and any other basis for forming mixed committees that will match names. We took the logic there: agreeing to two different adopted texts from two homes or, perhaps, in some other variant, that we went to that free interpretation that from some general jurisdiction of the House that we could conclude it. However, the conclusion cannot address election and appointment issues. So I don't doubt it, I'm sure of it. That the issue of two and this mixed committee points to the best of their proposal for a conclusion. Because they propose, therefore, their proposal is implicated to adopt their report and the solutions they offer, with the conclusion that it previously in a procedural sense determines the validity of the BiH Justice Department's competent department in the Council of Ministers. So, they also thus show that there was no agreement and that the two of them, as Mr Neimarlija said, are there valid grounds for forming and deciding such a commission. For this reason and for the reason that, I will say, and why I went with the question, and not to the conclusion, I knew that the conclusion would not have, perhaps, enough support to pass, and the question cannot be rejected, so I went with the question, and therefore I suggest that the Commission report (it is equally this and the next question that I do not report when it comes to the Joint Commission's finding on the selection of auditors, so I have the exact same position on one and another), I suggest that I do not answer this report before I get the answer I asked for today, in the urgent time period, and before this is obvious from the BiH Ministry of Justice to see whether this procedure is valid at all. That we don't talk about the effect of a procedure if we don't know, before, whether that procedure is right. Of course, lawyers can fill me with their legal interpretations now, but nothing will change in my view of the problem, to speak for nine days. So, I think this is about harming the legality and influencing politics, raising above legal standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3196	Thank you very much. Next is Mr. Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3197	Thank you, Mr. President. Before I say anything, therefore, I absolutely support this proposal from my fellow Božo Rajić. And what I want to say right now is actually an explanation why we last time voted this committee for the approval of candidates were against, and the letter which one of the proposed, or candidates, Mr. Mariofil Ljubić explained in detail in fact the errors that were made in the procedural sense. And they are certainly visible, because many will agree with me that the appointment does not know the term of consent. So the texts agree, the appointment is done by selecting most of the votes. So, both in committees and in homes and everywhere. So, most of the votes, mathematics here is ruthless. I mean, congruent candidates mostly vote, also unknown to me. Well, when we look at the report of this committee, I read that no consent has been reached. Because in the vote for the Ombudsman from the 51st order of the Croatian people, there were five "for", one "against". So it's not consent, it's revote, it's overvoted. So, even though this could be interpreted, the lawyers will talk about it, perhaps in the case of the ombudsman's approval from the Bosniak people, it was unanimous, so here we can say that they agreed to the proposals unanimously. So, in my opinion, here's the clue from our last thought, the only solution is to repeat the public competition. I am not going to, of course, if there is a plea, I will not support the Commission's report, because I do not think in this case, nor in the next item of the agenda, it is not in line, because and there, because there were two abstentions. And so, by supporting Mr. Božo Rajić's proposal, that I don't answer the next item of the agenda, I think... my discussion is quite clear, here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3198	Mr. Šaraba. Although few things don't make sense to me if he's here, he says, 'the Joint Commission has reached agreement', and now you're saying he's not. And here's Mr. Rančić said that... he has.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So after my colleagues Vidović and Rajić, I almost had no need to discuss it, since it will mostly repeat itself in its discussion, with what my esteemed colleagues have said. So what falls immediately into the eyes when you look at this report that there is no invitation anywhere in the Report to some member of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, this commission that did it couldn't have done it, since there's no business opportunity to do it. The texts of the law can be brought into line, and that is clearly and precisely defined. There's absolutely no alignment about names, and I personally think it's quite clear. So in that direction I also discussed at last session of the House when this commission was formed that carried out this work. So, I think this is a violation of the absolute Rules of Procedure and that this commission couldn't do this job that took over and was assigned to the last session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3200	Thank you very much. Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3201	Thank you, Your Honor. So in accordance with Articles 116, 117. The Rules of Procedures which prescribe the work of the Joint Coordination Commission and the very course of reconciliation, the Ad hoc commission chosen by one and the other home, therefore, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples in your known composition, as it stands in the Report, carried out at the session of 5.11. by order of both homes adjudicating a proposal for the appointment of 52 Ombudsmans in the Human Rights Institution of BiH. Indisputable, undeniably with six votes "yes", therefore with all votes "for" by the Ad hoc commission, Mrs Jasminka Džumhur's proposal from the Bosniak people and five votes "for" and one vote "against" by Ivo Bradvica of the Croatian people's order was established. It is indisputable, therefore, that this commission has agreed to this in accordance with these members and with the order of one and the other home. The conclusion that followed does not call into question the previously agreed decision of us from the Ad hoc commission. And we voted on it for the reasons of a collegiation (a colleague who proposed it insisted on it), but with our note and clarification and on the Commission itself, what can be confirmed by the members of the Ad hoc commission and perhaps there, through the minutes of the secretary of this commission, that the conclusion that the Ministry of Justice is asked to deliver an opinion on the procedure does not call into question the consistency of the name, so this decision on the appointment of the Ombudsman. And I also believe that the Department of Justice has no jurisdiction to interpret, whether or not, the application of the Rules of Procedure. It is the assembly procedure, the business procedure, the two homes procedure and the justice ministry that is responsible for giving an opinion on the matter at all. Here's how much, and this can be confirmed by a colleague of Zrno who was in this commission and colleague Ljubičić from our home, and, of course, colleagues from the House of Representatives, and eventually, they adopted all of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3202	Mr. Rajić has a replica, then Ivanic answered, then Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3203	I just said I'd risk getting into a fight with the lawyers and I'm a thinner, shorter sleeve, and I'm probably gonna lose. But I'm not going to lose in fact, I'm going to lose formally. Mr. Rančić speaks – imagine now, please a little, analyze what he said – he said the work could be done against the law, but the work remains. Excuse me, I didn't interrupt, Mr. Rančić. You're saying that the conclusion by which the Justice Department should assess whether the procedure is valid is not relevant for the decision made by the verification. If that's a legal interpretation, thank you very much, don't explain anything to me from law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3204	Please, before, since it was a replica one more time, before you was, it was on you, I think, a replica. Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3205	Thank you. Dear colleague Rančić, therefore, I now have in front of me this conclusion that you signed and which you are asking the Justice Department to deliver its opinion. Now you're pulling it back, and obviously you're looking for something else. But I'd like you to really read to me the members of the Rules of Procedure in which you have the decadent right to do what you've done and to bring your name into line. Because Articles 116 and 117 talk about harmonising the text of the law. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3206	Mr. Rančić. Did you have any on Rančić?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3207	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3208	First the Rančić, then you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3209	So, dear fellow Rajić said that I said that some work was done that was not absolutely true. No crime, no offense, no discipline, no Bog, no criminal, I didn't speak at all, I told you about the facts. And if he doesn't trust me, he can check with his colleagues if it's absolutely true what I said. And dear colleague Šaraba, yes, this conclusion there was on the Ad hoc commission. And I can't, this isn't my private thing, I can't say that now, 'take the rubber and delete', or that I as president don't make up the report what was there. Yes, it was, but before that, we also made it clear that the basic thing is that our decision does not question this subsequent conclusion. After all, did we not vote on some basic material many times, and then with some additional conclusions that do not question that basic decision we voted, accepted or did not accept. That was multiple times, that was multiple times, so I don't need to, and you're a fellow lawyer, to read you those articles 116 and 117. You'll take a look at it yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3210	First Mrs. Majkić, then Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3211	It is right that those who speak of Articles 116 and 117, and no one reads Article 160, which is called 'The interpretation of Rules of Procedure'... when it is not clearly and explicitly written something, 'The College shall, when necessary, decide on the interpretation of this Rules of Procedure until the House decides otherwise on the conclusion or amendments'. So don't forget that there is this member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3212	Mr. Rajić, then Mr. Šaraba. The replicas are all of this, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3213	Mr. Rančić today a little bit about himself... hears,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3214	I'm the first speaker. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3215	...so he says I said some work was done. This is an act, I didn't say it worked. This is the work when someone decides that someone will be chosen and that someone will not be chosen, it's the work. I didn't say it worked, but the consequences remain. If the BiH Ministry of Justice's opinion in the Council of Ministers is established tomorrow that the proceedings are invalid or what will surely happen after this, however we decide, if they are not satisfied, the parties will go to the opening of the court dispute. If the court shows that there was no valid legal basis, then I'd like to say, "Will you apologize here publicly, all of you who claim to have a legal basis?" I'm just looking for nothing else. I'm just saying that I don't believe in the validity of this act, the names I can't agree with, the only correct procedure was when different people were chosen in two homes – cancelling the competition..., everything else is a political game.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3216	Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3217	My esteemed colleague Dušanki Majkić. So, the Kolegijum decides and... writes here but when something is unclear. But here it is quite clear, in Article 117, it is clearly said that the Joint Commission decides to bring the same text into line. There's no text here, there's people.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3218	I conclude the replicas, and I give the word to the delegate Ivanić. It is evident, whatever decision we make that it will obviously end up in court, and it was clear to me from the very beginning. But I don't think this process should stand in this House of People anymore and somehow end. I, as a member of the College, had a problem once and this problem was essential nature and I personally think it is difficult to find another solution other than a judicial solution to that problem. We make a decision on some appointment and one of the people complains to the College, the College has no right to put that question on the agenda at all. For he who is dissatisfied must go to court and bring the whole procedure down. Because if the College of Any Appeal, whether justified or not, puts it on the agenda, we would have unlimitedly placed on the agenda of one of those same points. And that's why I said, once we've made a decision, it has to end up in court. And that's why I want to, here's the truth, bring it today. I will support the Commission's report, with a desire to end this today, aware of the fact that it is going to court, because I don't see how else we can come to a solution. Then we'll have every complaint again on the agenda and so suddenly. And we'll never be able to make the ultimate solution. But I agree with those who say that if the court can bring this down, then it's time for all those of us who advocated it to apologize clearly and to know that it will never happen again. Because the court will then, in that case, give us a clear instruction on how to go. This is what I wanted to say on purpose because this isn't the only case. The Kolegijum's appeal was very much, and the College took a stand in appeals. We're not the competent authority. The only competent authority is the court, after being brought in once, and we are no longer considering those points of the agenda. 55 And I agree with Mrs. Majkić, I think this request from the Commission, don't be angry, but it's really excessive, it's illogical. Even if he did say and it's true and it's not true, there are no consequences again, is the final legal consequence going to be the court's decision to appeal to? Here, that's all I wanted to say. Next is Mr Filipović, then Čolo. I said you were the last one.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3219	Mrs. Čolo, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3220	Mrs. Čolo, then Mr. smooth Mr. Filipović will.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3221	Thank you, Mr Filipović, and so do you, the chairman. I don't think we should apologize to anyone, because this debate we've been having right now was supposed to be held at the previous session when this house came to the conclusion that it was going to be agreed upon. So, then, all those who said this today should have said that the process of reconciliation cannot be applied to a specific case, that it is not the law, that this house cannot reach a conclusion that this issue will be regulated in this way. Now that post-festum really doesn't make sense and I don't think it's okay and I don't mean to apologize to anyone. However, I would just like to remind you, one of my colleagues was saying that no consent has been reached. In the Rules of Procedure, when the procedure of harmonisation is laid down how this consent is achieved. The procedure for voting on the Conciliation Commission is very precisely regulated, most of all members are required, so most of all of the six. One member of each nation needs to attend, and a majority from each home is needed. So, I've been on this second coordination committee. The procedure under the Rules of Procedure is fully respected and that majority, so we had a triple majority in both cases, so that the observation that no full consent has been reached does not stand, because such full consent is not required. When it comes to the alignment process, so all that we've been saying now, we should have said then, but we said, our rules of procedure are told that the laws just harmonize. However, the Rules of Procedure follow, there is one provision of Article 143, which states that all other acts, decisions, resolutions, recommendations, everything the House decides to follow is the basic legislative procedure, which can be interpreted by analogy that everything the House decides on can be agreed on just as much as the law and what dom and did – it concluded that it is going to be agreed upon. Therefore, Mr. Ljubić can think one way or another, but I believe that we have defined this procedure... in conclusion, and everything that is not regulated by the Rules of Procedure can make this home a conclusion. The Rules of Procedure are our act and the conclusion is our act, respecting the procedure for making that conclusion, so I don't see any legal interference. And as for court proceedings, it is the right for everyone to initiate a judicial dispute, you have the right to do so in every choice, so his satisfaction will be the result of this court dispute. And I won't mind if someone gets a court dispute to change this decision. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3222	Thank you very much. The Republic has Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3223	With all due respect, Čolo, I have to ask if she was in the House session when this conclusion was made. I have the impression that it wasn't, because if it was then you'd know that we, more or less, all those who speak today, were saying the same thing then, because we've been overvoted and the decision has been made against our... Therefore, we had the same attitudes that we do today. Well, if you've overlooked that fact, here's what I'm not going to take from you in any way. But what concerns me, I'm worried about the language of the lawyers here, a few lawyers, as far as I've heard, who say analogy can solve such important issues as the ultimate authority for the protection of human rights and freedoms. Thank you for that right. An analogy solves some side issues when they are not exactly standardized. Then why don't we go to the conclusion instead of the contest, and we'll come to the conclusion of all the issues? Why do we need an institution to compete? However, I think that these games of words and those legal finesse that are, of course, closer to you, you can use it in this home as much as you want. I didn't even count on you to apologize, you didn't even say before, but I was talking, and primarily I thought about a colleague of Rančić. If it turns out that this is a breach of procedure, that the violation of the law came out of a breach procedure, that someone should say, people, I was wrong, that's what this is about. And analogy, if you're going to solve things, then write just one article in the Rules of Procedure and say that everything else is solved by analogy. You have a college that explains everything, as it has otherwise explained to you until now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3224	The replica has Mr. Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3225	So, I was saying this wasn't in line for me. And I'm not a lawyer and I respect the interpretation of a lawyer, but no one today has convinced me that this is in line. It is possible that it is in line with the election of the ombudsman of the Bosniak people because the Ad hoc commission unanimously agreed. But in this election of the Ombudsman in the order of the Croatian people, there was a revote and an ad hoc commission to bring together different texts can work this way, so that the session can be held if representatives from both homes are from all three constituent peoples and most of the votes these different texts can be voted on. This is about people's appointments, so people's appointments to certain positions are less important or important to me. If there was a discrepancy, if we will also accept the possible interpretation of the College that some issues can be resolved this way, then the order of the Bosniak people agrees, as I have read it now, and the order of the Croatian people is not. Therefore, the Ombudsman institution is not finished and the only solution, therefore, in my opinion, is the legal calling of a public tender from the beginning. Thank you. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3226	Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3227	Thank you very much for your word. So, I have to defend the institution of the College that I'm sitting in. We haven't done anything that's contrary to the Rules of Procedure of our home, and no move at all. Compared to what Mr. Vidović said, it is now the last sentence that this process of reconciliation is not over, it is over and it will be over, it seems to me, today at the session of our home. And to ever come back into this story of conformity according to the Rules of Procedure of the People's House again, but not the provisions that speak of consent, but in accordance with the other two provisions, one of them has already mentioned Mrs. Čolo, and I would not enter into her story, I will only tell you, I will call you, your attention to Article 158. Our Rules of Procedure who gave us the right to the College of the House of Peoples and to the College of the House of Representatives to return to the story of the Ombudsmans, because it is of too much importance and of too much damage to the Ombudsman institution in BiH. And to get back to the story, so what colleagues are saying is names when it comes to budgets, it's about numbers, and compliance with the Rules of Procedure provides for laws. And you're absolutely right about that. So those who are lawyers will understand me, and those who want to understand the interpretation accepted by the College may be able to change their views when I read you article 158. Rules of Procedure. That is how one and the other home acted on the suggestion of the College both at home and at home. There are two items, very briefly, I will read this to you: 'The House of Conclusion can regulate a particular question that is not at all', be careful not to 'or is not precisely regulated by this Rules of Procedure'. In particular, the Rules of Procedure did not regulate what to do with appointments, here are the persons? And, therefore, in the homes of the chosen person, I am not talking about now that the House of Peoples has chosen another in order that qualified the Commission as such, and that the House of Representatives has chosen the fourth in a row when it comes to qualifications. But let's say they're exactly the same treatment. If they are the same treatment, then let us respect the Rules of Procedure and honor the recommendation of the House of Peoples College of what he decided to do to the House of Peoples and appointed the Committee of Consensation. That's how it was done in the House of Representatives. We need this question today, accepting the report, so the Committee on Consensus, accept, end the procedure, and this country will have the Ombudsman. The second Article 158, which I have read, states: ‘The conclusion is binding only on the specific question referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article.’ We've come to the conclusion that we're going to agree, because that thing we have a hollow in the Rules of Procedure, we don't actually have it in our Rules of Procedure. And it applies only to a specific matter, and it applies to the Ombudsman and we refer... we have the following point: the appointment and the unselected deputy chief auditor. So, appointed two committees for this one, for these two questions. The doubts that someone has? So I have no doubt and I'm almost certain, so it's hard to be sure when it comes to interpreting legal norms, because it can be at a higher instance and otherwise. But I am convinced that this decision today made by the House and already made by the House of Representatives cannot fall to any fate. 58 As for the Commission’s statement, so part of it was said by Mrs. Čolo, I think that’s Article 117. It is perfectly clear and is completely accurate, so both to the lawyer and to the wrongdoer it is clear how it is decided in the joint commission. I will read paragraph (2) of Article 117. 'The Joint Commission seeks to reach an agreement on the same text. To reach an agreement is necessary most of the votes of all members of the Joint Commission and in that majority", please "the representation of all three constituent peoples, as well as the majority of each home", which is justified, so that this conclusion that follows this report is not of any importance to our decision today. It does not prevent us from deciding today, nor does it prevent us from asking the question of Mr Rajić's distinguished representative about what we heard in the parliamentary questions. So we have quite an open space to decide on the scale, so this is already the House's decision and we have today's Ombudsman, the Ombudsman of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3228	Mr Filipović's discussion produced two replicas, first Mr. Šaraba; three, good.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3229	I really need to replicate my esteemed and respected colleague Filipović. I would accept this argument that he gave to Article 158 if there was no mention in this Rules of Procedure of Understanding at all, but of harmonising the text of the law. If the alignment of the text of the law is mentioned, then Article 158 cannot be applied, because it is regulated, and it is precisely regulated by this particular Article 117 to which my esteemed colleague, Mr Filipović, called and even read the article and even mentioned a word that is very important and decisive in all of this, which is the text. So the text is the law. When it comes to text alignment, then I am absolutely convinced of it, thinking of harmonising the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3230	Thank you very much. Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3231	I'm going to ask my colleague Filipović something. So the laymen could ask the most difficult questions for experts. I admit I'm a layman and Mr Filipović is an expert. All I ask is that you explain to me does this mean that the provisions of Article 158 and paragraph (1) and (2) give the right to close the decision of the House earlier? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3232	Do you want right now or do you want to get more Mr. Vidović? 59
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3233	If I could just take a minute? So, I'm not anybody's lawyer here, nor, if it's a question to me, I'll make my point about what you're asking me. The conclusion was made by the House, allowing it to come out of a situation of different names in both homes. So, the dom has made, the House has made, the way it is decided in this house, as prescribed by the law, is not otherwise decided. It was without your vote, but it wasn't necessary for the decision to pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3234	Thank you very much. Mr. Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3235	So, I was just saying that the words of a lawyer today won't convince me, so I can read the Rules of Procedure in this section. And still, my colleague Šaraba made it clear, so it still stands, but when we talk about texts, this is about the appointments of people to important positions. Therefore, the lawyer may understand the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, and then perhaps in the future, it would be good if, in the election of MPs and envoys, only lawyers would prefer to sit here, because many dilemmas would..
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3236	Only then will there be no deal, only then will there be no deal. As many lawyers as they think, I know that. That's why I've always been in a body where there's only one lawyer. She's exhausted, so well, I'm telling you the truth, she's exhausted a list of the reported. With all due respect, I think we must plead and accept whether or not the Commission's report. We therefore declare ourselves on the Commission's report. So I ask you to prepare for the vote and make your statement on the Commission's report. 10 votes "yes", three "against", one "abstained", there are entity majority, I find that the Commission's report has been adopted. Coming through, shall we vote on this conclusion? Well, no, wait, we can't, it's an integral part of this report, the other thing is that I think it's pointless, but it's an integral part of this report. Well, we haven't always worked.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3237	60 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3238	I'll put it to the vote then. Wait a minute, let me run the session. Mrs. Majkić, you sometimes warn them not to talk...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3239	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3240	I am putting it to the vote and this conclusion of the Commission, which is asked by the Justice Ministry to declare it. Prepare to vote. You can vote! I find that, with one vote "for", 10 "against" and three "abstained", this conclusion was rejected. We move to the point of the 15th agenda, that's: Ad. 15. Report by the Joint Committee on Harmonisation of Proposal for appointment of the Vice-General Auditor You've reached the report. The Joint Commission has reached agreement to appoint a deputy general auditor, and that is Dževad Nekić of the Bosniak people. The House of Representatives adopted the Joint Commission Report. We must also vote on this Joint Commission report. I'm opening a debate and I'm asking if there's been a voter report? Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3242	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow delegates, members of the Council of Ministers, respected other guests, I was given the assignment as a member of the Ad hoc commission to elect a deputy general auditor, and for that reason I am reporting. I'm sorry to read you a part of just the text in this report that you must have read, but that's how I try to do my homework. 'The subject of reconciliation was the proposal for a candidate from the Bosniak people. After the debate, involving all members, the Joint Commission reached an agreement with four votes "for" and two votes "abstained", including the representation of all three constituent nations, as well as the majority from each home, on a harmonised proposal for the appointment of a deputy general auditor from the Bosniak people, and that of Dževad Nekić. The Joint Committee on Harmonisation of Proposal for the appointment of the deputy general auditor from the Bosniak people proposes to the House of Representatives and the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to adopt this report and accept the proposed proposal for the appointment of a deputy general auditor from the Bosniak people." 61 I think I've done my homework with this, and I've done it as a member of that committee. Let me introduce you to this. Although I have been restrained on this committee, I was obliged to read this commission's decision and today I will be restrained, but I hope that this proposal will be respected and that Mr. Nekić will be elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3243	Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3244	Well, a little while when I've been in the dilemma I'm having today, and it's really hard for me, as a man, to make this decision. First, if the Serbian delegates' club votes against, we go to the third competition, which means it's a round again, and that means that with great opportunity, the candidate proposed by the Bošnjak will be re-named to the post. So, unnecessary delay in time. If we are restrained, the decision will not be made. So we're practically forced to make this decision. Why is it so hard for me as a man? If I hadn't chaired the Finance and Budget Commission, I would have judged this differently. But we see what happens when it comes to audit reports and how important it is for us to function and the arrival of a man who has never been audited is something for me that under normal circumstances I could never vote on. Since the Bosniak Club has had more opportunities, more suggestions, but only on this function has he proposed only one name and only one name and he is, here, that name is today a proposal for us, with us. It is unfortunate that the audit institution should be independent and non-political and it is indeed unfortunate that in one place such a strong demand is reflected that I, on behalf of the Serbian people, have no right to stop this choice. And in that sense, I hope, if two members of the Serbian club vote in favour, that the proposal will pass, and so, here, Mr Ivanić, I urge you to have us vote in favour and to violate party discipline, and finally end this story about the auditor.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3245	I, as president, can hardly violate my party discipline because I determine what it is. But I'm kidding, there's no problem. Are there any more interested? Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3246	I really, the chairman, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I speak here personally, I don't know this man, but I'm really interested in why this commission has given this home trust and the other home why this man was ranked in the first place? I really don't get it, if it's someone who's ignorant of reviewing and someone who won't do a good job. Mrs. Majkić was sitting on that committee, I really don't understand, I'd like someone to explain it to me. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3247	...because it became a political function, because, colleague Čolo. If it were a non-political function, then it would be taken care of the way that man came. Since it doesn't matter, in this country no one is looking at anything anymore, and since it's only important to vote, here we are going to end it today.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3248	Mr Filipović, then Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3249	Here, very briefly. So I don't even know this man either. The procedure has passed, the man will enter this business for the first time. There are people sitting here for the first time in the House of Peoples doing their job. So I have no argument that man has never been audited. He's never been audited, it's obvious, I believe that's how it is and that you've reconsidered it, but that man couldn't possibly make a mistake doing this job, because he's never done that job. I'd give him a chance. Go over it, take the burden off your heart, you don't know a man like me, or us, and give him a chance as many get their first chance at life. So be something somewhere, doing some work.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3250	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3251	A brief sentence, Mr. Chairman. Respecting your party discipline, I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3252	Exhausted list, exhausted voting list. Prepare to make a statement on the Joint Commission's report. You can vote. With nine votes "yes", two "against", two "abstained", along with the necessary entity majority,... the report and the practical appointment of Mr Dževad Nekić was adopted. I think this is both, however anyone interprets it. What matters is that it's over, that it's come out of these benches. It certainly won't stop there, it will, but the important thing is that we're done here. And I thank... one member in particular. Moving to point 16. 63 Ad. 16. Report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in BiH for the period from 1. 1. 2008 to 30. Six. 2008 You've received the report, as well as the Joint Commission's report. The House of Representatives adopted the report. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Just a moment for me to solve this technique. Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What matters is that we discussed the work of this commission seven or eight months ago. And what is the fact that we are now dealing with and discussing the problems that have arisen in the work of this commission in the last ten months. This report was rightly made, but what is missing from this report is that in addition to these problems that they have cited and which they suggest are solved on page 6 they should also indicate a proposal for a solution to how these problems are solved. So, the fact is that in this commission's work, there were three problems. This is an administrative problem and the fact that the files that need to be solved are found in several bodies. Another problem is the misapplication of the material regulations arising from the work of individual institutions when they are approving citizenship. And the third problem is persons in the area of the former Yugoslavia who have neither the address nor the residence in BiH. And that's a fact and it's true that these are the problems in the work of this commission. But anyway, I think it would have been far more operational and far better if this commission had made it clear and precise about how to solve these problems or left it here for us in these benches. I personally think all three problems are solved. I think there's a way to get past this, and right after that, this commission has also given us essentially maybe the main reason why it's talking to us, which is the fact that 10 months of the Council of Ministers has absolutely not approved and provided the appropriate financial resources necessary for their work. I really believe that this is a mistake, that the Council of Ministers should correct that error towards this Commission, that it should be provided with those financial resources which belong to that Commission and in accordance with the conclusions of this Parliament's 2 and 4 that it is necessary in the coming period to establish clear and precise proposals on how these problems should be solved and how this Commission will fulfil those tasks that it has put in charge of its resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3255	Thank you very much. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. 64 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3256	Thank you very much. I wish you and I could get a little more rest when we talk about this. Because it deserves to probably be both at home together and to leave one day for the reason we see that BiH, unlike its neighbours, seems to me, will solve the visa issue. If you've read and been in progress these days, both Montenegro and Serbia seem to be getting... visas. As long as this problem is not carried out on a clean-up, not those who follow us, who need us, will think about it in a way that says, "It's a serious country and we need to give it a chance." Those who think that without this case solved can be deceived by other issues. I, and as so far, and now I want to say that this commission that has been appointed to deal with these issues since 1 March 2006, so far has been doing very difficult, so why not say and a dangerous, serious job for the benefit of all the people and citizens of this country without being adequately recognised by the body of the authorities which grieves. I also want to say that, here, and as my dear colleague Šaraba said, this commission continued to work with the same intensity for these ten, eleven months, that according to my knowledge, and yours too, if you engage in... their report, over 100,000 documents were entered and processed by electronic means. These documents were also entered in the records. It should also be said that it is precisely taken care of who, where and when he was wrong to include people, whether it is said that those who were citizens of the common state of Yugoslavia or who have recorded from some other countries, which body was wrong and in what way. And then we have the consequence of being told here that people are facing problems in their work and work so that when people who have received the most frequent fax request and fax enrolment in citizens, and I'm going to say only one parallel data - three years and two months of battle, that a man born in Gruds is a citizen of this country, who is willing to invest hugely, who has a house of 15x20 on four floors in this country. It requires a birth certificate from Los Angeles, and a man born in Gruds. At the same time, we have a college-based citizenship, and that out of the 4,000 people on record, that they got citizenship, only 15 people signed up and filed documentation that it was correct, wrong or that they wanted to continue to be a BiH citizen. I wonder where those 3,985 people are, what are they doing and how do they represent BiH? I am expressing my suspicion, especially according to the Election Commission, when such a glare and cramped struggle, you remember, here in Parliament and the questions that the distinguished Vice President Filipović asked them when it was not 2,080 but 7,045 people, largely from Posavina, when they could not join the vote. And I argue that these people who have never had an address in BiH, who have never had a CIPS, are on the ballot to vote and vote, and never in this country's life may have seen it. I also want to point this out here when rodents eat documentation! I don't know how many stomachs they have and what their numbers are for so many people! Or, on the other hand, when I look at what the two homes of the BiH Parliament bring back in February of this year, the Council of Ministers and the competent ministry are not interested. And we are deaf here and doing nothing to do something that, I repeat, would be extremely useful for this country. I also want to say that both our homes, so in February, made a few conclusions, so among other things, that we have three people in this commission who are from abroad and that these people are coming here temporarily, which is normal for them to leave and are often emptyed out of these places. Three times this commission sends a proposal to the Council of Ministers, with the agreement of those persons, to become members of the commission, the Council of Ministers is not considering, not making a decision and not informing. I'm saying 65 big things are hiding behind this, that the Council of Ministers deliberately doesn't want to make a decision on the financing of these people to do this job. If you can understand that by accusing me, I'm accusing you. So, that the Council of Ministers seriously approached the conclusions of both homes and did what the law required them to do, did not do and we have the situation, I will tell you something else, if we have a worse... than when we formed this commission, because for many of these first actions we didn't even know, and after this much documentation, so many facts that came through this job, so to behave, it, not that it's unarranged, it's, I'll say, against the state, it's an action against the state. So I can't help but suggest that when we discuss and discuss the records, that the Council of Ministers be necessarily called upon to implement the conclusions of both homes, February 13th and 25th of this year, in part as they impose regulations.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3257	Let me write that conclusion down for a second. Okay. The word has no one else. It was you, so he canceled, so I'm asking. Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3258	Mr. Chairman, I will try to discuss as a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights and at the same time as a member of the Joint Committee on Oversight over the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency. Mr Ivo Miro Jović said a lot, so he helped me, so I'll try my discussion and cut it short. He helped me with my intention to tell you about the work of this commission and the issues and problems that this commission was dealing with. As a member of the Human Rights Committee, following the reports of this committee, we have had several so far in this period, I have realized that there are obviously many problems in this area and that there have been many illegal actions. And I respect and support the work of this committee of completeness and what Mr Ivo Miro Jović said when it comes to the work of this committee I support that it continue this work and try with its reports, means through the competent institutions of this country, introduce more order in this area. I think so far there's been a lot of problems and a lot of riots. On that side, I repeat, I support the work of this committee to continue with this and try together, so I repeat again, introduce as many order in this area as possible. I also support the discussion in terms of our conclusions earlier, and there is this problem when it comes to funding the work of this committee to end the Council of Ministers. So it's an assignment to the Council of Ministers and to pay compensation for the work of this commission. Furthermore, as a member of this commission and one and the other, the issue of the naturalisation of foreign citizens is obviously a very sensitive, specific issue, but also very important and important for this country at the same time. I almost attended a seminar, as a member of the Intelligence and Security Agency's work, I had opportunities at the seminar to hear a lot of information from members of the agency when it comes to the dangers for BiH. And the dangers, so the apparent dangers for BiH are related to trade: drug trafficking, arms trafficking, human trafficking and one very dangerous issue, one major danger that 66 has reached the level of a global single threat, which is terrorism. The conclusion is during the work of the seminar and of us who attended as members of the commission and these people from this agency – and it is clear that, I think, to all – that BiH is not isolated from any of these dangers. The question now is to what extent, which means what's more pronounced, means more or less. But it is clear that as a state, we are not isolated from any of these problems, that we are not talking about any other dangers that are also highlighted and identified as potential dangers to this country. I personally believe that we have probably a number of people who have received the documents of this country that are involved in these dangers. And on the other hand, I also support Mr. Jović's discussion and I personally think as a man that this commission should continue this work that the institutions of this country mean by these reports to do their job, not to speak now of which institutions I personally think, and we all know who should finish the job. And to try together, I say, to introduce more order in this area, in this country, and because of the time that comes and because of our obligations, means when it comes to this Association Agreement, we know what obligations are both in this agreement and in this matter. So, simply, here was my comment on this report and I support this report and I support the conclusions that this committee has proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3259	Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3260	Okay, I won't, I think it's already been told enough about this report. I'd just, I just thought I'd warn you about something. This report at least to me here, and I trust other colleagues, it's all inconclusive. Typically, we learned. Simply, on reports like this, we get reports that we've learned about. We learned about the one that we get through commissions, so we do the work on the commission, then we discuss the matter to the end in Parliament. Let's take it or take it and get the job done. But when a man reads a report like this, he simply feels at one point and a certain discomfort, because if the indicators there claim that more than 60% of the people who have citizenship here have no ID card, no residence, no home address, no matter what number it is, is that 3,000, 20,000 or 200 people. Actually, I'm asking a question about what kind of state we are? Are we serious or unserious? I speak here at the level of the most ordinary statistics, not at the level of science, not at the level of any relevant data that every country must have at least about its citizens. We, unfortunately, don't even have that information. Now, logically,... we bind, I personally do not know enough this problem because we rarely and meet, unfortunately, here at Parliament with such reports, then it becomes clear to us and logically what is being brought into a certain relationship with visas, with the passing, with our situation in which we are in the context of European countries' relations with us, that I do not expand and go further on what my colleague Ljubičić said. That is why it seems illogical to me – I will not qualify as a qualified failure to comply with the decisions or conclusions of both Houses of Parliament on the determination of the work and action of this Commission and the logical compensation for these people – I think this is the only commission formed by the order of Parliament which has not been given what it has under the law. So, 67 of the Council of Ministers went deaf about the parliamentary assembly's decision. Here now, regardless of the report, we ourselves need to ask the question in which positions are the Parliamentary Assembly, or its homes, in relation to the Council of Ministers. If the Council of Ministers has no need to implement the conclusions of the parliamentary commission, then we should be told here that we too know how to determine ourselves. I wouldn't, I believe, if we'd all read this report, I would, even though I don't understand a lot of things in it right now, I would like to get an even more extensive and detailed report on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3261	Thank you very much. Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3262	Thank you, Chairman. As is known, the House of Representatives adopted this report at its 38th session, and some of the conclusions we received were adopted. I don't think it would be a bad idea for this home to make appropriate conclusions in this regard, which obliges this State Commission to review decisions on the naturalisation of foreign citizens, the Ministry of Security, the Foreign Affairs Service, the Border Police, and the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, the CIPS Directorate to take over the database of deprived BiH citizenship, acquired naturalisation within three months, and integrate it into the CIPS and the Information System for Foreigners, in such a way as to make it operational and accessible to BiH law enforcement bodies. The second conclusion was: to oblige the State Commission to publish, as soon as possible, all the names of persons deprived of BiH citizenship... by this means and to do so at least once a month in the future. The third was: to require the State Commission to work more efficiently in revising BiH citizenship acquired by naturalisation in accordance with BiH's laws. And the fourth is to require SIPA, the Prosecutor's Office to report on measures taken against persons brought in connection with the illegal allocations of BiH citizenship in this period of 18 April '92, as soon as possible. by 1 January 2006, for all levels of government in BiH. And in the end, I just wanted to say one more finding. At a recent session, a joint session of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, I have just asked the Council of Ministers: 'This is why the conclusion in terms of payment is not respected... compensation to the members of this commission'. We have received the answer that this is within their regular affairs and activities and that the Council of Ministers does not plan to make special payments to the members of that committee. 68 So, I suggest that these conclusions that we have had the opportunity to hear, that is, adopted by the House of Representatives and we accept, accepting the Joint Commission report that we received for this session today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3263	I don't have any more logs. I remind you that the Joint Commission, in this way, has proposed conclusions that say: the report is accepted, reminds you of the obligation you requested, Mr Jović, to carry out the conclusions, the earlier conclusions of Parliament,... to deliver to all relevant ministries. Now, does this cover these conclusions proposed by Mr. Koprivica, this point 2? These conclusions were not 13. 2nd and 25th. Two, that's another conclusion. So your proposal is to vote on those conclusions again, even though we adopted them once, is it? Okay. Just so I know how we're gonna do it, how we're gonna go. I suggest, then, first of all, we get to the conclusion of the Joint Commission, and here's to accept the report and this is everything that's been said, so that these three conclusions are taken. Prepare to vote. You can vote! The vote is closed. I find... that nine voted for this conclusion, they were all "for", no one "against", no one "sustained", enough entity majority. Therefore, the conclusions were adopted, and thus the report. Now we should make clear about these conclusions of Mr. Koprivica who are from this second home, right? Was that from the House of Representatives? Prepare to vote. I suggest we go in the package, all conclusions. Prepare to vote. You can vote. I find that these conclusions were voted by 12; three "yes", no one "against", enough entity majority and that these conclusions were adopted as well. Moving to point 17, Ad. 17. Temporary report on the work of the Interresor Working Group on the draft Immunity Law You've received the Interim Report. The House of Representatives received this report. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? As far as I can tell, no one. 69 We vote on this report. Prepare to vote. You can vote. I find that 10 delegates voted "yes", no one "against", no one "abstained" to take the report into account. Therefore, the Interresor Working Group's interim report has been received. We're going to the 18th point, Ad. 18. Annual Progress Report (monitoring implementation of Action Plan 1 of the Public Administration Reform Strategy in Bosnia and Herzegovina – materials of the Council of Ministers of BiH)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3267	What law?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3268	This report.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3269	70 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3270	Well, please, we are only now going to the Commission's statement and proposals for the Commission's conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3271	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3272	To what point?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3273	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3274	Point 17. It's over. Well, I can't, she went to the point regularly, voted all, all over. They came to the 18th and we're voting on the 18th.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3275	I'm sorry, can I just ask one sentence?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3276	Why, for?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3277	For that point before, let me ask. Is it possible that I'm... and we are asked a position on three issues, because the Commission says we cannot continue to work. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3278	We have strengthened our conclusions of 25. 2nd and 13th. The 2nd to which we gave the order to provide the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3279	I'm talking about the 17th point. And that's what we voted for, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3280	We're getting the hang of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3281	Here, maybe this, I really don't get it, people are asking us for help. They're looking for help.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3282	... Because this report came back a long time ago, 26. 9, in a procedure in the House of Peoples. [[no microphone turned on]] The House of Representatives has already given guidance and we have established in the last session the text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Immunity Act. He's going into procedure, so 71, now this is groundless. We couldn't wait for the suggestions of this home, but we acted on the suggestions of the House of Representatives. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3283	Please, please, we've finished point 17. We've moved to point 18. Please, everyone, I repeat the vote. Please, we'll do it again. It wasn't enough. On the occasion of paragraph 18, I ask all delegates who sit to plead either "yes" or "no" rather than "no" vote. Prepare to vote on item 18 of the agenda. You can vote. With 13 "for", without a vote "against", without a vote "tentained", I find that this report has been received to the knowledge. It is now necessary to vote on the conclusions of the Constitutional Commission of our home that are proposed and given to you in this matter, which are practically four conclusions. I'm right, Chairman. I did. Right, four of these conclusions? Prepare to vote on these conclusions. You can vote on these conclusions. I find that the conclusions received 13 votes "yes", no one "against", no one "abstained". We're going to the 19th agenda, that's Ad. 19. Declaration of Good Administration – Proposer: House of Representatives You have received the Declaration and the report from the competent committee proposing to the House the adoption of this declaration. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Ilija Filipović and Mr. Rančić reported for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3285	Thank you very much for your word, Mr. Chairman. So I answered the word for one simple reason that, by reading the text of the Declaration of Good Administration, I came to the conclusion that it was not intended for the House of Representatives to deliver this to the House of People for a statement, because otherwise here instead of a home that thinks it is Parliament, and it is not because Parliament is both home, stands only the House of Representatives. I volunteered because I think it is our duty and those who serve one and the other college, one and the other home, which is the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat – to respect the BiH Constitution. I will not say anything outside the Constitution 72 but very principled and I will very clearly say that against very often, which was not the case in the past assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, very often minimized or bypassed the House of Peoples, as if it were some accompanying home for applause to someone else, for applause. It is ignored that the House of Peoples is the same legislative capacity as the House of Representatives and that only as such can contribute to the success of the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Please, the preamble to the Declaration states that it is adopted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and does not mention Article 143(2)a) of the Rules of Procedure which states that the declaration is an act of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, not an act of one home. Someone later remembered and then put it in the signature and dr. Mladen Ivanić but forgot to intervene at the preamble at point 1, point 2, point 3. Declarations where only the House of Representatives stands, and should stand in the third row of point 1 instead of the House of Representatives – the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in point 2, the beginning of point 2 should be the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in point 3. the third word should also be the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We have clearly recognized here one non-compliance in accordance with the Constitution, which is also an eclectic example of the violation of the BiH Constitution, i.e. Article IV which speaks and regulates the issues of the Parliamentary Assembly, where it speaks of two homes and states: The House of Peoples, then the House of Representatives. And I have to say that's what the Constitution says, that's what it says on the front desk in this building, but that's not what it says in the memoirs of this Parliament, this Parliamentary Assembly. I mean, there's no home, no other home. It is our fault that we are all individually not to warn those who are obliged to respect the Constitution when they propose, when they write, when they prepare certain acts for committees, for the College, for one and another home. Most seriously, this is where I object to the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly, the secretary of one and the other home. We must safeguard the autonomy of the House of Nations, which is by no means a less valuable home. However, he was treated in the Constitution as the upper home. Upper homes in other parliaments, you know what they have to do with lower homes? The entrance to the building, even not in all countries, because I was in the largest number of two-camel parliaments; they have access to the building, they have one board that speaks if it's in one building. In some buildings, that is not the case, in some cases, so they are in two places and have some necessary rooms in that building. They have their... rooms, so what a man must have, and they have his secretariat, they have their services, they have their budget, and so on. We're here in the position of the puppy kid-- that's what you're gonna do there. So, we're a few more than the House of Representatives, but the Constitution gives us an entirely identical legislative position. So the position of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives is nothing different. Therefore, I have carefully read this text of the Declaration and seen how it has been corrected in the race and was sent to the House of Peoples for decision, and it would be very nice to have seen that in one synergy, in one agreement, through a certain body that we have, permanent bodies, and one and another home, we have considered this declaration, that we have seen in both Rules of Procedure, not that it violates the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure as a lower act, but I don't think it respects the Constitution either. So, that's something terrible when Parliament and Parliament don't respect the Constitution, then it's the most terrible thing. And that's what happened. You know, if someone else, like the Constitutional Court, has to tell us how to get something back so we can decide again, so by not deciding, according to the Constitution, we've forced the Constitutional Court to tell us - you're not doing well. And what it is is a violation of the Constitution, which we must work on. So, I respect the principles of openness, accountability and efficiency of the public administration but it's just an act that can bring both homes into the same text, that they don't even differ in any notch. 73 I would like you, here, to understand and accept this as my good intention, that this is no longer happening to us. And if a conclusion is to be made, everything is clear from what I said, the conclusion can easily be directed towards another home. I have shared my opinion with my esteemed colleague Ivanić, so we could still talk about it. There are many of these examples where it is questionable, so is it something that seems to be a decision or act coming out of this house, an act of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, or an act of a home? Is the delegation that goes by invitation or by whom someone comes or communicates with, so the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or is it the delegation of only one home. We've reached a conclusion today at the College. We will direct him to the College of the House of Representatives, asking that we no longer practice that one-home delegations go to represent the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I believe you all share your opinion here no matter what club we belong to. Parliament is not a home. When only the delegation from one home goes away and both colleges agree on it, please nice, it's legal and legitimate and there's no doubt about it. But if it takes the right to decide only one College, in which there are no members or from any club of the House of Peoples, then that's something we should be worried about, and we'll sit down with our colleagues. So first we're going to tell them, at the first session of the Joint College of both homes, we're going to open this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3286	Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3287	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, I was thinking of talking about these problems in terms of the diversity of the text, so what is controversial is that it is not being called into the text in the preamble of the Declaration to our Rules of Procedure and the lack of our home, in the sense that we are also an integral part of the Parliamentary Assembly and that as Parliament's Assembly we have brought this act. And since that's what my colleague was saying, of course I'm giving up on that part and, look, now I'm just saying my dilemma about how to figure this out, this lack. As a normative technical or adoption of the text of this declaration now in a different form, whether or not it is a possible alignment, but it is essential that we, as a Parliamentary Assembly of both homes, adopt this declaration in an identical text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3288	Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3289	I sign all this, Mr Filipović, you said, except that we do so much and often do so ourselves. It's often said -- come on, don't talk sick, adopted at the House of Representatives, we don't have to. I think we should deal with every question with dignity, no matter what the House of Representatives is, and it wasn't once for us that we killed some of the attitudes that the House of Representatives was like that. Now I'm going to prove it to you on this example. So, the Declaration of Good Administration, which is now in front of us, was made in 2006. And then it was said that it should be released into 74 procedures, so for some reason it wasn't, it was thrown into some papers and now someone from the House of Representatives found this paper and fast and fast, so he forgot that there was another home, so he wrote three rows of Cyrillic, two rows of Latin, so he made one, this is a shame to come to Parliament. So, send out a document like this, even worse put it on the agenda of the House, so it's really degutant. I'm asking you not to let us plead on this document at all. So, to bring the Declaration of Good Administration, when the Strategy was made, when what has already been done in this way had already been adopted, because it is degutant. I'm asking you not to make a statement about this document.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3290	I have to say we'll plead, which doesn't mean we have to accept. It's true, there are three rows of Cyrillic, so two rows of Latin, it's happened before in one text and Cyrillic and Latin, I mean really, in one sentence, overstatement with equality, I have to say, but it's not known for our rules of procedure, because we have documents in Cyrillic, in Latin, in Serbian, in Croatian and in Bosnian. I don't know, I personally think this is smarter to refuse, with all due respect, and because of the text and everything and go back to the re-proceeding procedure so that it can be better prepared, here. [[Common discussion]] Mr Ivo Miro Jović. IVO PEACE
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3292	: I would just ask the distinguished colleagues and you, Mr. President, what prevents this home from bringing in a declaration like this or similar to what they would have done to me? To make that a conclusion. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3293	First, if I may say so. Ivo Miro [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3294	: No, I'm in favour of us turning this down today...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3295	I think we'll make things better. If we don't win, then she can't make it, she has to come back and she can come back. First, here we should amend and insert a member of the Rules of Procedure based on which we can make a decision. Then it should be at point 1 instead of the House of Representatives that there is a Parliamentary 75 Assembly of BiH, so point 2 should be the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, at point 3 already stands the Parliamentary Assembly, at least in the text that I have, here, there is a Parliamentary Assembly in my text, so that I think in those elements. [[Common discussion]] Please, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3297	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3298	I suggest we make a statement. Prepare for a plea. Vote! I find that, with 10 votes "against", one "abstained", this declaration has not been adopted and will be returned to the motion, with all the reasons why the House has defined itself as such. Let me get this straight. I think this is the only time since I've been at least in the House of Representatives, that a decision has been reached unanimously to refuse something that the House of Representatives has already adopted, which is also very, very, very unanimous, but here's the first case. Moving to the next point. So we'll return and explain with all these suggestions Mr Filipović was talking about. Moving to the 20th point of the agenda: Ad. 20. Proposal for a conclusion on Information on Life and Body Crimes, with an emphasis on domestic violence for 2006 and 2007 and on trends in the first three months of 2008 You have received the findings of the Constitutional Legal Commission adopted by that commission on the basis of a public debate. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? If this is Mrs. Majkić, no, it's not. Well, if you'll excuse me, if I'm gonna check this out, I'm gonna have to do it more than once. There are no reports to discuss this point either. Therefore, we are now pleading on the proposal for a conclusion. Prepare to vote. 76 You can vote. I find that this conclusion has received 12 votes "for", no one "against", no one "abstained" and was adopted. Moving to the 21st point of the agenda: Ad. 21. Selection of members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security (Rang-list of the Council of Ministers of BiH)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3301	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If we bear in mind that we have worked for three years and we know under what circumstances and how we have adopted the Framework Law on Higher Education, if we have in mind that it is crucial for higher education in BiH in 2010, from the aspect of the country's signatories of accession to the Bologna process, if we have in mind that full five- or seven months of working is that this Higher Education Development Agency is ensnaring to work, then it doesn't give me the right to fully depolise and speak how and how it happened, thank Bog that there has been a proposal to form this agency, but, I can't and can't point out that this ministry is doing things that aren't good and one of them you have now pointed out. Is it possible, this is about the Board of Directors or the Council of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency, that within one ministry of people who are not connected to this matter, they provide the examinations of the professors of science, who should work in this business and bring judgment on them. That's one thing. And I ask myself, me and you, if a tender has been called, Article 51. The framework law, in accordance with the law and what the article provides for the Ministry, and what for the Parliamentary Assembly, you will see that usurpation is the power. 77 I will repeat, I think today it would be important that I plead and support this list only for the reasons I said before, but surely from now on, it will not be able to pass this ministry's proposals in this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3302	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, before I say anything, I will read Article 51 (9) of the Framework Law on Higher Education, which clearly and precisely says: "The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is choosing members of the Agency's Management Board for a term of three years." What are we doing here? We're just here to confirm what someone else did. So someone else called the competition, decided where they'd be published, collected applications, made the score, made this rank list, gave it to us, and now we're just here to confirm it. So I am absolutely certain and fully convinced that what we are doing here today is illegal, contrary to Article 51 (9) of the Framework Law on Higher Education, because our role is absolutely secondary. We here take note of what someone else did and confirm only what someone else did. That's why I suggest we do this job the way it's defined by law, which is that this election job is done by the Parliamentary Assembly, not by the Ministry that took it for granted. They did the whole job and gave us, in the end, the finished thing that we just need to know. So in this wayIvanić I want to try to explain and express my opinion, and that is, I am convinced, in full accordance with Article 51 (9) of the Framework Law on Higher Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3304	Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3305	Well, nothing new that a colleague of Slobodan has already said. We need to resolve this dilemma. If we are to appeal to the Law on Higher Education, then we need to know Article 51 of the BiH Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly is calling for a tender, forming a commission and giving confidence to the proposed candidates. Here's the process, we've only stayed in this third segment, so raise your hands or press the button. Now, if we're going to press ourselves with this, whether we're going to press constitutionality, legality, or, I don't know what kind of exit they found, let someone know if any of us know what kind of exit they found in the House of Representatives. If we can accept that to get out of this situation, but really this, we have to warn everyone about this, we have to figure this out either in conclusion or in some other way. We can't right now. If we go directly to confirmation, we're essentially breaking the law. So we need to find a way out of this. 78 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3306	Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3307	We have indeed searched all this on the Constitutional Commission and, of course, counterpart Šaraba has consistently and honestly repeated what he has said on this committee. We all had, as well as the chairman, and the other understanding for these, is whether, the reasons he presented and for himself, let's say, if not forcibly, the passing of the law, letting the other one do our job, but just, let me say what else, along with what the colleague... mentioned, what had defined us, however, despite all these questions to make a decision that we have made and to ask you to accept it and to support it. A simple fact, a colleague, Ivanic, that 18 people, or 19, appeared in the competition. Seven sheets are advertised. So, the self-response of potential candidates is discouraging. Obviously, if we had conducted the whole procedure, the result would have been the same. We would have the same situation if we had 20 people who aren't controversial, most of them, and you know, of course, colleagues Ivanić, as I know them, but it's objectively discouraging whether now is the reason why this is to be chosen for the first time, the members of the Agency, which this should be affirmed and... In addition to what counterpart Ivo Miro Jović said, our pressure on terms, Bologna, the deadlines we have, and this fact that only 19 candidates have come to us, but believe me, she has made us recommend here a decision for you, too, because, I'm afraid, if we go back now, if we appoint our commission, if we start the procedure to do everything, we'll lose time, and we'll have the same situation. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3308	Thank you very much. Mr. Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3309	I, too, respect the reasons and the need to resolve this issue, but, behold, there are certain dilemmas and some of them are with me. So, fellow Šaraba has clearly warned us all and I'm pretty much on his background and, behold, Mr. Zrna also. And this commission appointed by the Ministry... in its detailed report has laid down the order of activity, the call for a public tender. 22 applications have arrived at the competition, one is not within the deadline, so 21. Since 21, 19 has therefore joined the interview. Two candidates did not join, so they fell out, and it was made, for the first time I really hear, the rang-lista-list of the best candidates to elect members of the Agency's Management Board. I have one dilemma left: what about these other nine, what are those names? If they are not according to the Rules of Procedure, which this commission has defined, they have won more than 40 points, so I guess they won four points and let's see who it's about. Were there certain biases there, I would say, or were some possible candidates eliminated? Not 79 disputing all these people because it really seems to be people, so intellectuals, university professors. They should be in this agency, but here's the fact why this report doesn't have those who haven't won enough points and aren't ranked best, I don't know, bringing a dilemma to me, and at this point, I'm the closest I'm to thinking about fellow Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3310	Thank you very much. Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3311	Thank you very much for your word. So, what did I answer for? I volunteered because I know how long the Framework Law was born in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. These were painful debates at all levels, from the very committee formed by the Council of Ministers and through the Council of Ministers, through the working bodies of the Parliament of both homes, etc. Finally, the law ended in the Constitutional Court. We were just, so in the first term there was this long struggle, remembers Professor Neimarlija, we had once very identical views, and sometimes we were very, very different, and I think there was a compromise solution in a law called the Framework Law on Higher Education. It was passed by the Framework Law on Higher Education at the beginning of our call,... The framework law on higher education and should have resulted in 11 laws. One will bring the National Assembly of the RS, I think it brought it, even the changes and additions it had, as far as I followed, and should have, in accordance with the powers, exclusive powers at the level of the county, or cantons, to pass the laws of the county, or cantonal congregations. My information, my knowledge is that all counties, or all cantons, have yet to pass higher education laws, only Tuzla has passed. You see, that's, like, 10 out of 10, and it's only Tuzla! The introduction of the Framework Law is going terribly, terribly difficult. It is very difficult because the application of the Bologna process is a painful issue at universities, or universities. I'm a witness, I've visited every environment in one and another entity where the university's headquarters, or universities, is having a public debate on the Framework Law on Higher Education. I haven't missed one. These are the defeating states that we have,...so the debate was the two constitutional committees of both homes, these are the devastating findings that we have been coming to. Since we have a professor who doesn't have a single textbook published, that we have a professor who doesn't know foreign languages, that we have a cabinet in technical colleges that aren't equipped, that a space university, or universities aren't ready to accept the Bologna process, with the work of students in small groups. For a long time, I could talk to you about other problems of not understanding the transfer of points and the way that Bologna requires it, etc. It's one terrible discrepancy or a terrible resistance to an important issue. What you have within one university or university is 5, 10 or 15 universities, which requires the Framework Law to abolish the legal subjectivity of every university, because it becomes a unit, or institution within a university that only has legal subjectivity. And there's a problem in all the county to pass higher education laws. 80 If we don’t accept the argument today, I don’t know what she was like at the House of Representatives, but I suppose they were guided by the fact that even by the unfoundedness of this agency, after the call for tender of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, which we have here in the act, see the last page, Rules of Procedure, Article 30. The Rules of Procedure give the Ministry the right to call the tender, and then the Ministry and the Council of Ministers got it on the table, so they could object, and the unanimous decision taken, the decision taken and released to parliamentary procedure and delivered these names to the Agency to start working. I'm making my point, I have no intention of changing your mind, but I want you to know the facts that, perhaps, you haven't thought about before. If we also prevent the formation of the Agency, which has an extremely important task given to it by the Framework Law, I am afraid this mandate will pass, too, that we will not have implemented the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH. I am close to suggesting to you, dear colleagues, that we accept this report, that we accept these persons who will now form and start working in that agency, and that we at the same time reach a very clear conclusion: to commit ourselves to the Council of Ministers and to inform the public and the Council of Ministers and the Federation and all cantons, so all the counties, that as soon as possible, because all deadlines have been broken (six months were planned, therefore, the pre-inclusive deadline within which the laws on higher education were to be passed). It's what universities and universities suffer, it's what students suffer. That's why I put them first, that's why I put them in the first place, that's why I put them in the first place, the application of the Bologna process, the movement and the flow of students from one to the next, and the university, etc., so if you want, to go out of BiH to some other colleges and universities that apply the Bologna process in neighbouring countries, in Western Europe, etc., to start in one and end in the second third year, in the third, and graduate in the fourth country that has the Bologna process. So here you have clearly stated that Article 30 is Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers called for a tender, a big deal was done. On the table of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers accepted it, put it in parliamentary procedure, with all these remarks we have heard, it was accepted by the House of Representatives, to accept this and to definitely enable the implementation of the Framework Law on Higher Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3312	Thank you very much. No more, as far as I'm concerned, reported for discussion. I suggest we make a statement. I have to say that I think that the House had to, or the Parliamentary Assembly, but here I am, in order not to brake, I will not be against it, although I think the Ministry has taken on a greater role than it belongs to it. Well, good. Prepare to vote. You can vote. I find that 10 votes "yes", one "against", one "abstained" – adopted this choice. 81 [[Common discussion]] Please, please, no further, Mr. Jović is still looking, Ivo Miro Jović is looking for a word. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3314	:... For allowing me to say one sentence. [[no microphone turned on]] I've told you my reasons why I accept such a gruesome work and take the ingenuity that doesn't belong to him. Since we're going to have a new agency situation tomorrow, don't let them trust it to go that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3315	Thank you very much. Point 22. Ad. 22. Application by the constitutional committees of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's home to give authority to determine the consolidated text of the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH and the Law on the Prosecution of BiH The constitutional commissions of both homes submitted a request to the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives for powers to determine the consolidated text of the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH and the Law on the Prosecution of BiH. The House of Representatives has given the constitutional justice commissions both at home. I'm opening a debate. Are there any interested? I'm guessing it doesn't. We're voting on a request for authorization. So, who is it to give authority to the constitutional committees of both homes to determine the consolidated text of the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH? Prepare to vote. You can vote. I find that the House of Peoples, with 11 votes, has given authority to the constitutional justice commissions of both homes to produce the consolidated text of the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. Moving to point 23: 82 Ad. 23. Initiative for making new law on public procurement for BiH – Proposer: delegate Dušanka Majkić
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3318	Just a few words. You've seen the reasons that are. The House of Representatives has decided to make a new law on public procurement, due in the sixth month to be addressed to parliamentary procedure. The Agency for Public Procurement and its College, which deals with this, could not reach a mutual agreement, so they put this law new on the site, they put the bill on the site, but no one submitted any comments. We wanted people to read that. Meanwhile, a new law has been drafted outside the Board of Appeals, waiting to see if the Agency will give its own or not. Whatever the attitude, I suggested, and here I've given, in addition to these reasons that I've stated, two conclusions. - To ask the Council of Ministers, within 60 days, to release into parliamentary procedure a new bill. - The People's House requires that provisions be incorporated into the new legislative proposal, which give the Public Procurement Agency greater powers and responsibility in relation to the training of contract authorities and suppliers, as well as monitoring in the public procurement process. 70% of the audit reports comment on the Public Procurement Act. So it turns out that 70% of institutions are thieves. This condition can no longer last. So, the Office itself to consider complaints, this audit office says that the provisions of the new text of the law need to be considered as soon as possible, because they can't work anymore. Here, I mean in the shortest, not to keep the rally, I mean, I don't know who else has it, thinks...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3319	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba. Adem, and Vi, yes. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3320	Well, just for a minute, Mr. Chairman. So, one of the main remarks from the environment in which I come are always the objections to the Public Procurement Act and the great need for it to change as soon as possible and to get a new law, a law that will allow this process to be carried out much more flexible and much simpler. That's why I think this initiative is very good, very correct, that it needs to be adopted and that we need to get law to the extent that those who use it, and we don't have such a law at this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3321	Thank you very much. Mr Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3322	As always, I don't know why the new law has to be passed. Yes, I took off that site this law that the Agency did, I don't know what the Ministry did. So why do we need to be bigger Catholics now than the Pope, to excuse me, so that we now force something, something that's already in circulation, which is over. Give me what you have to bring here and give me that. The last time we had that one, the law went down, right, the lack of an entity majority. You can't make it like nasrudin's hodge house on a wheel, so turn left, right,... anyone can like it... So, I'm not in favour of this formulation and I'm not voting for this -- making a new law. Is he new, is the old man fixed, what was done, says, changes to the law. In this case... It's just to get what's in the process as soon as possible, so let's get this straight. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3323	Mrs. Majkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3324	You can't put a change in the old law, because he, the changes that are made... to be done. So that law was made by strangers and he can't survive like that. People don't understand him, institutions are struggling with that law. Ask one institution that isn't about changing the law. It is not correct, ademe, to sit in the House, to look down and say I am not against, it is not correct, and sits in the Finance and Budget Commission and sees that 70% of institutions have a problem with the Public Procurement Act. So we have an old law that is as it is until the new one is passed, and this new one needs to be brought to suit domestic legislation.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3325	Delegate Ibrahimpašić, replica. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3326	So first I don't know how much of it has changed, I haven't leveled both.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3327	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3328	Wait a minute, no, no, I didn't, they didn't stay. Secondly, I'm telling you that budget users don't plan at all, they don't always plan to purchase, but then before the end of the year to spend money, so we have this kind of disaster in the cost of funds, then they go and rush, and it has its own procedure, so it can't. So it's all about planning and don't convince me of anything else. People don't plan, they want to act like they used to. I'm not saying it shouldn't be made easier. I think they should be relieved but not this way. So I don't know how new that law is in that law that I've been watching and I can't accept this as a fact, there. So give us what we have to get here, and we'll see what happens.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3329	So, if I understand you, to narrow down the debate to practical, you're just the word new to kick out and it's okay, right? To get the word out of the new law. [[Common discussion]] Well, I have to make a suggestion to see.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3331	Well, here I suggest that here the initiative that what exists in the Ministry and in the Agency comes into parliamentary procedure for public procurement so we can plead it out. Now what? Is that a bad thing? Is there anything else you need?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3332	Well, he didn't say it wasn't right.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3333	No, no, but that's how it works out. We know these laws exist. I've got it at home, I took it off that site.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3334	Mrs. Majkić, is it appropriate for you to drop the word new... to pass the law on public procurement as soon as possible? Is that okay? 85 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3335	... Before the delivery of the procedure, the Ministry has such a law, that we may be told of it. [[no microphone turned on]] [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3336	Nothing, then I'll put your motion to the vote, so what do I do now? I'm trying to come up with a compromise solution that suits everyone. Is it appropriate for you to have this initiative: to consider the Council of Ministers' justification for amendments and additions? Here you go, Branko.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3337	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3338	Turn yourself in, Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3339	/Common discussion/ [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3340	No, I said it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3341	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3342	Please, hey, please just answer the word. Mr. Zrno made his proposal for a compromise.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3343	Okay. If you can't do that, please, whatever form it appears in, I'm sitting like a birdie, a man just like a gentleman, like in a desk, whatever form he appears in, or if we get him through changes and supplements, or if we get him in a brand-new form -- he's new again, he's new law. He's not the old law anymore. So, what's it about? This is one for me, absolutely, an acceptable initiative, an initiative to get the right law. [[isn't understood...]] To get the right law that really fits, which will meet the needs of all the institutions of this country. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-04-0.u3344	How about this, that's good - proper laws. The adoption initiative, Mrs. Majkić, the proper law on public procurement, can we do that? Prepare to vote. You can vote. I find that this initiative has received support, along with this amendment, 12 delegates, no one "against", no one "abstained". I propose to the delegates that we conduct a joint debate, and if there is no reason and a common statement on points: Ad. 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, and Bank Austria Credit Assessment AG – The Fojnica-Kiseljak Water Construction Project and the Lepenica-Kiseljak sewage collector; Add. 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on reciprocal improvement and protection of investments; Ad. 26. Giving consent to ratification of the Finance Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation of BiH and the European Investment Bank – Water and sewerage project in the Federation of BiH; Ad. 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the European Agreement on the submission of applications for legal aid. Are we in agreement? I find that there is... consent and I open a debate about these ratifications. I ask if there are any interested in the debate? I find there are no reports. I'm closing the debate. From that I conclude that we will declare ourselves uniquely about giving consent to all four points. Prepare to vote. You can vote. I find that with 13 votes "for" it is agreed... to ratify the agreement under points 24, 25, 26 and 27. Moving to point 28: 87 Ad. 28. Appointment of members of the Ad hoc Commission for the Making of Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and the production of consolidated text
