ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15342	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 20th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the MPs, regular guests of the meeting and... members of the BiH presidency, chaired by the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations who expressed interest in attending our meetings as well as some NGOs. And, before the beginning of the session, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, soldiers of Macedonia who participated in the EUFOR mission in BiH died in a serious accident. I invite you to pay tribute to the dead soldiers for a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15343	Praise them. According to the service report, I find that 31 MPs attend the session. The absence was justified by honourable MP Bakir Izetbegović and Zlatko Lagumdžija. I find the session has a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. Before we move to a debate on the agenda proposal, we need to resolve one of the previous issues. It is "The motion for a resolution on the acceleration of BiH's EU accession process" submitted on 10 January 2008, honourable MP Denis Bećirović, Zlatko Lagumdžija and Sefer Halilović. In accordance with Article 2(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the House should decide whether the motion for a resolution will be previously discussed in the committee responsible. If the House decides it is not necessary to consider a resolution previously in the commission, it shall be automatically included in the agenda of this session. Our practice so far has been, you remember, and last resolution on violence against women has been passed on to our committee, which has improved this resolution with two amendments, and it has been adopted in Parliament, and I ask you that, on that point, Dom now pleads. You can prepare for the vote. Please vote now! I find that there were no "for" 22, "against" three and "abstained". Resolution forwarded to the Commission. 2 Let’s now go to the draft agenda you get. In the proposal you saw there are 19 points, noting that it is possible to include other materials along the agenda, which meet the conditions for consideration. First of all, we were thinking about the budget, but we didn't get a draft budget bill for 2008 and we didn't get a report from the commission on some agenda points, so the draft agenda you received in the invitation remains. Let me introduce you to the fact that a technical error was made in the call. It's about the point of the 10th where the Bill on Features writes, and it's about the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Features. At the extended college, we had a debate over the BiH Sport Law Proposal in the second reading. Unfortunately, the working group formed by this Parliament only yesterday delivered to us in the House a harmonised amendment to the Law on Sports, so there is justifiable dissatisfaction with the number of amendments that have been delivered in this respect, and with the time it took for them to be considered, so that today we, as Parliament, need to get out of this situation, to pass the law without breaking the Rules of Procedure again. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go. Before I give you my word, just a little bit, I want to tell the MPs that we will vote on the new Rules of Procedure and the conclusion, so, at the end of the debate, all the points of the agenda. The college will say at what time there will be a vote on all points of the agenda. That's it. There you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15344	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed chairman, respected members of the Council of Ministers, respected media, at the very beginning of the agenda, I would like to note that the motions for a resolution on the acceleration of BiH's accession process to EU membership are not only MPs Denis Bećirović, Zlatko Lagumdžija and Sefer Halilović but also Jozo Križanović, Mirjana Malić and Selim Bešlagić. It's a fact-finding thing. We felt that this question should come to the agenda as soon as possible, given that we delivered the resolution six days ago. Here, the conclusion of the House is that it goes first to the competent commission, and then to Parliament. But I answered, first of all, to ask at the beginning of the session a question that, here almost every session, the SDP MPs are persistently asking but also the BPS MPs. That's the question: What about direct TV transmission? In last session, I said it was the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. So, our joint conclusion. That is the question, therefore, of the conclusion of the House of Representatives, it is the matter of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH. And in the last session, and we see that in this proposal of the minutes, among other things, the chairman of the House of Representatives gave us an explanation that the Transport and Communications Commission has also proposed that a special session be organised on TV transmission. I would like to ask again, of course, what about the conclusion of the House of Representatives about direct TV transmission? What about respecting the Rules of Procedure on this matter? And what about this conclusion of the Transport and Communications Commission that he told us about I chaired the last session, announcing that we would have this debate at this session? 3
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15345	Thank you. I have given the service the task of all MPs getting our call from the Kolegijum again, the Public Service of TV BiH for today's monitoring of this session. As you can see, television is here. In any case, we will continue to try to secure what matters of the Rules of Procedure. And as for the conclusion of our commission – as you can see, that is the 15th point of the agenda – that conclusion is yet to be adopted, and after that we will eventually organise a plenary session, with the invitation to the House of Peoples to hold that session together. If we don't get a positive opinion from them, we'll organise that session ourselves as a House of Representatives. Is anyone still picking up on the agenda? Dear Ambassador Ajanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15346	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I will confirm the fact that the chairman has said that we have today received some amendments from the Working Group to agree on a proposal for a law on sport. Since there was not enough time to read it – and I have read only one member, one amendment in fact, and that is amandman vi, which refers to Article 20, which was otherwise regulated, and this so-called amendment harshly violates the Constitution of BiH in which we all swear and we all talk about that we want to work under the Constitution – I will remind you that it violates a member...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15347	Please, Your Honor, allow us, when we vote on the law, to present your proposals. Now we're only voting on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15348	And I'm explaining what I'm going to suggest something for the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15349	So that we don't go into the discussion of individual parts, we're just explaining what you're going to take off.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15350	Okay, I respect that. I'll cut it short. As he rudely violates more members of the BiH Constitution, I propose that these amendments of the working group return to the Constitutional Commission to take their stand.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15351	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Križanović. Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15352	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must, unfortunately, admit that I wasn't getting up to analyze the agreed amendments that we received this morning, which had been completed yesterday by a working group appointed by this home. Because of the importance, seriousness of this law, here's counterpart Ajanović says that there are even unconstitutional provisions in these amendments, I was of the opinion, in the best interest of today's proposal for a statement on the proposal for a law on sport, respecting these circumstances, that we have 19 accepted, or agreed amendments from the working group today, that we were simply not in a situation to evaluate them. And I'm afraid when we come to the debate that she won't achieve that goal to get to the good Sport Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15353	Thank you. The second chairman of Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15354	With full understanding of what Mr. Ajanović said, Mr. Križanović etc. And what goes in the direction of taking off the agenda of the proposal for a law on sports, I really feel the need to remind you of two or three things. So for a few years we've been trying to pass this law and we have a full consensus that it's necessary. This home was formed, when we came to the situation that we had a multitude of amendments, where we couldn't reach a consensus here on these amendments, we, according to usual practice, went towards the establishment of a working group that we gave the mandate and trust that she tried to prepare for this home what we obviously couldn't do through the debate. If we return the matter to the debate, where we stopped and tried to get out of it through giving confidence to this task force, we're back to square one. I'm warning you, I'm really warning you that if we go back to the beginning and open up all the questions that, who tried to solve this task force, the Sports Act will be nothing. I really needed to warn you. I don't mind. Here, if people aren't ready today to make a statement about him, get this off, but I know what's gonna happen. The next session returns the law to its beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15355	Thank you. Wait a minute, in a row unless it's a replica. It means replica. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15356	Maybe an intervention on this one. So it's not a replica to anyone. .... The most important thing is that we have a consistent position on the three of our colleagues that we've identified as a task force. So, when it comes to being amongst us, given the working group's position, there's no problem. Then let's not cause problems of procedural nature. We'll certainly vote today at the end of the session on everything. It's a new way of working. Until then, there is time for 19 of these sentences written in the Commission's report to be compared to the original text and let's get out of this situation that way. There is, therefore, enough time and I suggest that we keep this on the agenda as stated and that we end this the way you imagined, we wouldn't finally get that law today. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15357	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković, then Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15358	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, members of the College, fellow MPs, respected ministers, media representatives, so you see, all of this is what you're trying to do, I support. So, I support that you come up with a harmonised text of the law. I support your efforts and your thoughts to pass this law as soon as possible, except I insist that you do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, I'm not sure that I gave the task force the mandate to come up with a proposal for agreed amendments to the House, but I gave her the mandate to agree on the amendments, and then, in the follow-up procedure, these amendments come here, it's known through the Constitutional Commission, how it goes on, because we were the only ones who could get back and only return the report to the Constitutional Legal Commission, and we're not any working group. But here's what I'm not going to do because I think it's part of your efforts to come up with a consistent text, and I'm not probleming that part. What I am having a problem with is – and that is why I am amazed by the chairman of the Constitutional Commissions – that you are taking the opportunity to act against the amendments to the agreed amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So within 48 hours, after receiving the report, I had the right to say whether or not I agree with these amendments, and you took it from me, gentlemen, you took it from me! And that's why I think we can adopt this law in the next sessions, and that we respect this business law or the business opportunity for me to declare myself, means within a business period, and not within how you've now figured out that I could, between debate and voting, learn what it says here, compare it, because that would be good because we would adopt the law! I said at first I support all efforts to get to the law and it's not right then if someone thinks like this... declare them against the law. It's the least I think at this point he has any MP in mind. I am simply against the creation of an atmosphere that anything is possible in this Parliament and also in business to give it legitimacy even though it is not business. And I've always been against it, and now I'll be against it. And I will always be against breaking the Rules of Procedure in the next period until we change it, the way the Rules of Procedure is changed. 6 So when it comes to a concrete proposal, I suggest we take item 3 off the agenda and put it on the next session, with full respect for the Commission's efforts, but probably the College's intention, 10 days ago when it formed the agenda, to make a decision today, I guess, assuming that the task force will finish the job without breaking the Rules of Procedure. Here I am asking you to really work the Rules of Procedure the intended way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15359	Thank you. Before Raguž, honourable MP Džaferović wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15360	If my colleague Novaković hadn't still been surprised by my advance, I'd just say a little bit. So, that I took great care of the formal aspect of this problem, because form and content are the face and face of the same thing. As long as the form provides content and its regularity, it is actually content. The moment he gets distracted, she's a formalist. I, in order not to surprise my colleague Novaković, am not going to say and qualify this as his formalism. It is therefore possible to respect the form fully if our Rules of Procedure is applied. I'm not giving a lecture to the College now as much as possible. They have provisions that clearly prescribe it, and I believe that the College took care of it when he proposed this the way he proposed. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15361	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović wanted to see you, and then you'll be together.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15362	When something in the procedure is a few years like the Sport Act with completely different attitudes, with amendments, amendments to amendments, etc., a lot of different approaches, sightings and all that, when this Parliament has formed a commission to bring amendments into line and when we have agreed on the text, we will today refer to it. So someone will either support it or not, which will be our relationship to the law itself, or the final text of the law. I suggest that we not take this off the agenda, that we finally end the procedure relating to the Sport Act, which we do need, and that we all have a chance to vote in favour or against today, when we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15363	Dear Ambassador Novaković: reply to the replica. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15364	Well, you see, I'm really sorry. I may have used the wrong expression when it comes to Mr. Džaferović, so I said surprised, and I should have said disappointed.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15365	Dear Ambassador Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15366	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to say something as a member of this task force that agreed to this text of the report before you, and based on the mandate that gave us this home. That's why I called in my word. We have been given a mandate from this home to agree on the amendments, after a long period of failed alignment, both in the procedure and within clubs and in this home, by the decision to try to save this law and by passing this very important law for this country. And I personally think that, pure cheeks, this task force that has done so and in consultations with the Council of Ministers, the competent minister who I thank here, has managed to make a quality report that is a significant shift in quality compared to what we had in the first phase of the debate on this law. And I don't think there's any reason for us to play ping-pong balls with this law right now. This country has some obligations international and others that should be respected in connection with the international performance of BiH athletes, certain controls of health and all others, institutionalising certain activities, and I think it is our responsibility to make it possible for them by law, especially now that we have reached some kind of consensus on these solutions. And this isn't a question. I said so at the College – and today we accepted Mr. Novaković's request – to discuss how the Rules of Procedure is being conducted in this House, at the Extended College. Here, we'll do it so we can see all the arguments but this isn't a question, and that's the second reason I answered, on behalf of my club, that this issue is treated formally as an opposition, or a positional issue. This is indeed one law that should be accepted in this country and... these are those issues where all parties, regardless of what positions of programming, ideological, appear, contribute to the adoption of such laws. So I'm interpreting that we've been given a mandate to give this home a report. We delivered it, and I think, when receiving that mandate, the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Džaferović, said that this is not going back to the Constitutional Commission, that he would have further problems as we had through the report, that he was trying to seek a solution. And I think it's possible to pass this law here today, and here we're going to have a chance to change it and supplement it and work all together on it, but I don't think further delaying is productive and that we should all contribute to having this law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15367	Thank you. There are MPs who have already discussed it. I'll let them discuss it another time, but it's being run like a replica. 8 Dear MP Bećirović, pa Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15368	I mean, here on behalf of the SDP MPs' club, we have three principles that we won't give up on. The first principle is to speed up the adoption of all laws, since the country is late in adopting legal solutions, the second principle is the quality of the debate and is the third quality of legal solutions. I would remind here, for some colleagues, that at last session of Parliament's House of Representatives is the only club in this Parliament that has apostrophysed the question of the Law on Sport and its adoption, which has criticised why this law has not been on the agenda for months, it has just been the SDP Club. So here at the last session, we made it very clear that this issue should be speeded up in order for BiH to finally get the Sport Act. But also, as we want to speed up the adoption of certain legal solutions, we want the quality of the debate. How is it possible now that we are considering here a serious proposal by the Working Group for the alignment of amendments that came to us MPs 15 minutes before the beginning of this session? I, in particular, have submitted 10 amendments to the proposal for a law on sports. Now I need to compare those amendments and see what the task force has accepted from that. Also, colleagues from the SDP have submitted certain amendments, but we simply got 15 minutes before the session began. So it is not disputed that it is necessary to speed up legislation, but at this point it is controversial: do we have time to take a good look at what has been delivered to us in order to be able to discuss quality and debate, given that we have put a large number of amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15369	Thank you. Križanović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15370	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I don't know how clear I was in the first part, but I replicate to all those who respect the opposition that she doesn't care about law-making. I will not repeat what my colleague Bećirović said. Our remarks don't apply, either, to a task force that, I believe, has been doing this job very well. Our point is to worry that we won't have time to, say, 50 proposed amendments, we have 19 agreed on today, which I just haven't been able to look at yet because we had a session of the College, etc. There's a concern that for 15 days we can pass a worse law. Or some provisions that would be bad for the Sports Act. Do we need sacrifice and procedures and the quality of the law in 15 days? That's the essence of my replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15371	Thank you. 9 If there are no more reports for discussion, the honourable Messenger of Genjac. Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15372	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues, I really understand both the concerns and the requirements for public debate, as much debate as possible, as much as possible, as much discussion as possible, and the fact that the law is passed as soon as possible and that a more quality law is passed, and I think that we can satisfy it all, indeed. The task force has worked hard and made a lot of efforts to reach a compromise. But the work group's work is not a fact that's been produced by this and it's happened this moment and this moment the amendments received. There are hours and hours of debate in this House before and during work. The work group's result is summed up as much as possible by that good compromise, in order to make maximum improvements. That's one thing and keep her in mind. The second thing, we are businessly in the position of Article 118(3) of the position under a) where it is said that, even after the debate begins in the chair of the consultation with the deputies, it may allow discussion of new amendments in case it seeks to agree on two or more proposals on which the debate is being held, which is precisely in this case. Now, so we have this situation, we have these new amendments that are clearly intended to bring together several amendments already under discussion. So I suggest, in order to satisfy these legitimate demands, we do this debate on the law in two ways today. Since we have a new business opportunity, i.e. a provision to vote at the end, so in the first part, point (3) when it is, to introduce the MPs to the results of the working group, to inform what these solutions are, to open up the possibility from that moment on to all MPs who are interested in renewing their amendments, to dispute, to agree the amendments, to do so and to do so by the end of the session when a statement on all points will be made. And when we come to a statement on the Point of the Election Act that we are then pleading on both these amendments to our amendments and amendments to the MPs who want to table and dispute the amendments. Believe me, all of you who are in progress, fully respectable, Mr. Bećirović and Mr. Križanović, who have worked hard on this law and made amendments and everyone else, since they are well in progress with the matter, is enough for an hour to see the essence and to decide which amendments you want to repeat. That's on today's session break enough. And in this way, we can fully satisfy this all we need, and this requirement that we pass laws as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15373	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ajanović. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15374	Actually, I just want to make my point. I fully agree with Dr Genjac's proposal, because in fact my intention was to give us the opportunity to discuss these amendments and, where we believe these amendments have no constitutional basis,... give suggestions that they improve. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15375	If there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. And I can conclude that there was only one proposal to amend and supplement the agenda, and that the proposal for a law on sports should be removed from the agenda. I'll put him to the vote. Please prepare for the vote to take item 3 of the proposed law on sports in BiH off the agenda. You can vote now! "For" eight, "against" 25, "abstained" four. I find there's a bill on sports left in the agenda. And I realize that the 20th session of the House has the following. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 19th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliamentary questions and answers; 3. Proposal for a law on sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 4. Proposal for a law on wine, brandy and other products of grapes and wine (second reading); 5. Proposal for a law establishing a Institute for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures (Second Reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH (second reading); 7. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law (first reading) – (proposed by MPs Šefik Džaferović). MiloradŽivković. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of BiH, police officers, civil servants and other employees in peace support operations and other activities abroad (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Names of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 10. Proposal for a Law on Features of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 11. Proposal for a law on denationalisation (first reading); 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Safety Act on Roads to BiH (first reading) – Proposer of the Transport and Communications Commission; 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the VAT Act, with the opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission (proposer of the Law, Mr Branko Dokić); 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconciliation of Obligations on the basis of an old foreign exchange savings account, with the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budget (proposer of the Law, Jerko Ivanković Lijanović); 15. Proposal for a conclusion of the Transport and Communications Commission on the review of the report on the operation and operation of the Public TV Service of BiH, with the report on the work of the Management Board of the Public TV Service; 16. The debate on the subject of the Council of Europe and its activities (the basis for the debate is the report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Delegation in the 2007 Council of Europe), 11 17. Information on the authorisations issued for the transport of weapons, military equipment and the production of dual uses in 2006; 18. Proposal for appointing members of interparliamentary friendship groups – Proposer of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the House of Representatives; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the establishment of a Bosnian-Pakistan Economic Commission. We're moving on to the realization of the adopted agenda. Ad. 1. Journal of the 19th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15378	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, international representatives of NGOs, means of information, dear guests, I would just like to discuss for technical reasons the minutes and I don't think that it will be a problem for it to be removed in the future. Here, in the context of the agenda, it is said: The minutes of the 19th session and opinion, etc. will be delivered to you later. In my opinion, I don't think there's any reason for the record not to be delivered along with the agenda for the next assembly to have time to read it and possibly some remarks, which are there, to remove it. If this is some technical reason, it may be from session to session and respected, but in principle it should be the minutes from the previous session going along with... the next sessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15379	Thank you. If there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're going to the second item of the agenda: Ad. 2. MPs' questions and answers For this session, answers to a number of our questions were provided, so I will mention it. When asked at the 10th session, the answer was received by Mr. Rifat Dolić. Asked questions at the 14th session: Milorad Živković, Slavko Jovičić and Rifat Dolić on two issues. When asked at the 15th session, the answers were given by Salko Sokolović, Mehmed Suljkanović, Snježana Rajilić, Branko Dokić, Jozo Križanović, Denis Bećirović on two issues. The questions asked at the 16th session were answered by Drago Kalabić, Slavko Jovičić. When asked at the 18th session, answers were delivered to Niki Lozančić, Husein Nanić, Sefer Halilović, on two issues. 12 Answers were also submitted to the questions raised for the first special session. They were not responsible for the session itself and therefore received the answers by Salko Sokolović, Bakir Izetbegović, Halid Genjac, Šefik Džaferović, Husein Nanić, Sadik Ahmetović, Adem Huskić, Azra Alajbegović, Selim Bešlagić and Jerko Ivanković. This is about answering parliamentary questions. First, we ask if there's any comment? Dear Ambassador Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15381	I got it, I asked a question to the College of the House of Representatives and I got it. ... The question was to ensure the direct TV transmission of Parliament's sessions and I received an answer that I am not satisfied with, among other things, says: But regardless of all difficulties, the House College insists on creating conditions for its realization. I think, that is, my understanding of this problem is that the College of the House is obliged to ensure the direct TV transmission of Parliament's session from beginning to end, and not so occasionally and casually, when it eventually corresponds to the ruling coalition, creating a wrong full picture in public. And I once again insist on ensuring a direct TV transmission of Parliament's session, and then many issues in this country will be clearer and louder spoken and citizens will be made clear both how we do here and how the Council of Ministers works and, therefore, will encourage us to work more responsibly and more quickly.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15382	Thank you. Let's go, Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15383	Thank you. I've got the answer... from the Council of Ministers to the asked question. I will repeat it here: - What measures of your jurisdiction have you taken so far, and what do you intend to do to make our country attractive to foreign investment and what is the obstacle that appropriate measures have not been taken so far? I got the answer which, as my teacher would say, is a missed topic. They didn't answer this question but they asked, as I realized here, from FIPA, the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments, and they did make an answer, but I think the essence of the question wasn't what FIPA did because it wasn't her task. Her job is to promote foreign investment. I expected the Council of Ministers to respond to what they intend to do in terms of improving the business climate, tax exemptions, incentives for business activity and incentives for the protection of domestic production, etc. So I didn't get an answer to that question and I'm running for the Council of Ministers again. Same question. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15384	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15385	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, at the second session I asked two parliamentary questions and I never got an answer to them. So that I don't quote them now, there are records and stenograms, so I'm staying with them. I'm unhappy because there's no right answer. And one procedural question for a normal session here. I ask you from the College and I ask this Parliament to plead: Will you allow the presence of Mr Nišić, who threatens the authorities of the RS, the police, this parliament and, you have heard in the media that there are 150 volunteers who will threaten themselves with explosives, attack banks, and this parliament does not matter what he said against me in the media! Am I a thief, a criminal, a mobster? I have nothing to do with foreign exchange savings like you here, nor did you rob it! So I ask you, even though this point 14 is on the agenda, that you from the Colleges are determined, because this is a democratic parliament, never one of the colleagues from NGOs complained that there are no normal conditions here and the monitoring of Parliament's work and welcome everyone and welcome other members of the Association of Foreign Savings, but a man who poses such threats to people, who perform the most legislative and executive functions in this country, that he will attack with his terrorist activities everything that comes to his mind, please, that, in accordance with the commitment of this Parliament, he will make it impossible for such a man to attend, because I really don't want to sit here to scare me. It cannot scare me, blackmail me and call this parliament a complete mafia structure, only because this parliament did not want to put itself in a position to bring the state into bankruptcy at the time when Mr Nišić asked for it. That's why I'm asking you to plead. There is also time to ban him from entering this parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15386	Thank you. That's the question we've been working on at the Expansive College. Most of the votes of the Extended College decided to allow representatives of the old foreign savings to attend and allow them to state their reasons for the draft of our Rules of Procedure for amending and supplementing the law within three minutes. Let's move on. New questions, since there's no more answers. Let's go: Honourable MP Prodanović, Bahtić, Okolić, Kadrić etc. Please sign in electronically. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15387	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, Ministers, Media Representatives, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and it reads: - When will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs direct the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly to consider giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Cultural and Scientific Co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Bulgaria? 14 I believe that the delay in ratification of this agreement reduces the scope of cultural and scientific co-operation between our country and our friendly countries of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15388	Thank you. Next: Bahtić, Okolić, Kadrić, Mehmedović, Matić, Halilović, Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15389	Thank you. My parliamentary question to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the CIPS Directorate: - I am asking the CIPS Implementation Directorate for the precise time limit for the launch of new traffic permits! It is clear to all of us that in accordance with the legal procedure, first of all I think of the Public Procurement Act, a solution can be found for the realization of this project. Can't one complaint or lawsuit, here for three years, be a reason to hitchhike this important state project and where the state is damaged to tens of millions of euros. I believe this is consciously obstructing and holding back and under the cover of a failed tender for the purchase of tables knowingly obstructing this project indefinitely. And in my opinion, the reasons are, among other things, that they do not want to surface in any stolen cars that are driving around BiH today. Another reason is: it would prove that there are much more cars in BiH than are registered. There is no reason to wait three years for our budget to lose 16m euros in a year. In addition, I am providing you with an analysis of the distribution of income and expenditure that shows that the issue of new traffic permits by the BiH state would only result in the first year's profit of the 16m-euro circus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15390	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15391	Thank you. My parliamentary question is addressed to the Federation of BiH and the city of Sarajevo Roads Directorate, given that it is related to one another, as it is a master's road run by the Road Directorate, and yet a road passing through the populated city area, and the city of Sarajevo should be included in that issue. For now, it is likely that in due course there will be no more permanent resolution of the bypasses through the city of Sarajevo through the international project Corridor Vc and that we will wait one more time for this. However, it is inadmissible that by justifying that it will one day be resolved we have the situation we have, which is that in certain time periods from Vogoscan loop to Mostar loop it is such a choke of traffic that... you need it or that we need to cross that stock up to two and even two and a half hours. 15 For reasons I will not enter – I will seek this through my answer – whether it is really necessary or not, but I do not think it is necessary, for this city of Sarajevo, which is the face and mirror of all those who come to the city and all those who are going towards the international airport, is therefore the possibility of a temporary solution until a detour around the city of Sarajevo is resolved more permanently. And my question is: - Will it begin to work on the temporary resolution of this traffic jam on the Master's Road Doboj – Zenica, Sarajevo – Mostar through Sarajevo, i.e., more specifically, from Vogoscan's loop and, more specifically, from Rajlovac's share to Mostar's loop? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15392	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15393	I thank you, Chairman. My question... I refer to the Ministry of Justice at the Council of Ministers which reads: - Are there any cases that fines based on violations of state law are not directed to the Budget of BiH but to the budgets of entities such as fines based on violations of the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on the Roads to BiH? I'm looking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15394	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15395	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have two brief questions. First it's the Council of Ministers. In effect, the Council of Ministers formed the State Commission for Borders with its decision. I ask the Council of Ministers: - How much has BiH cost the work of this commission and what are the effects of its work since the creation of the commission until today? A second question to the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations: - Is the Republic of Croatia officially warned in breach of the Free Trade Treaty (CEFTA) because of its discriminatory and non-compliant Excise Taxation Act, which the European Commission also gave its opinion in its report, and does the Council of Ministers intend to introduce countermeasures, in accordance with the said contract? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15396	Thank you. 16 Dear MP Matić, pa Halilović, Dolić, Alajbegović, Bećirović, Bešlagić, Erić, Jamakosmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15397	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, what we can hear and see from the media lately, it is obvious that there are increased activities to prepare and dynamic the construction of Corridor Vc, or highways through BiH, so we could see that the construction of shares from Mostar to the south is announced with the highway in the Republic of Croatia, the construction of a bypass around Sarajevo, the construction of a section of Sarajevo - Zenica, and the announcements of a bypass around Zenica, possibly Zepca, etc. I welcome all these activities and ask the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Transport and Communications: - When plans are planned and at which stage the construction of highways so-called. Corridor Vc in the northern part of BiH, a merger with the Republic of Croatia, i.e. a section from the Sava River to Modrica, i.e. Doboj? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15398	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15399	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs and guests, my parliamentary question has been addressed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers to Mr. Nikola Špirić. The question is: - At what stage is the situation regarding the Yugoslav pipeline JANOF, which extends from Krk to the Bosnian Ship, which should be in the jurisdiction of the State Commission for Succession? JANOF cost about $150m and over 30% of BiH's participation through the Energoinvest company, which was in charge, ahead of BiH, to finance the project. The special issue concerns the first filling of the pipeline, which accounts for 60 to 70 thousand tonnes of crude oil, the market value at that time of around 40 million marks, which it has fully provided, has been provided by the company "Energoinvest". Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15400	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15401	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have three parliamentary questions and I will fit in at the scheduled time. 17 The first question is the Minister of Defence at the Council of Ministers of BiH: - What can you do as a resolute minister to stop the disenfranchisement and discrimination of people in the Great Claduma when trying to obtain confirmations in the Department of Defence in the Great Claduma about the time spent in the BiH Army and the formations of which it is a successor, and for the purpose of applying acquired rights under the Law on the Rights of Defence and their families in the Federation of BiH and the Law on the Rights of Demobilised Fighters in the Federation of BiH? A broader explanation in the written part of the question. The second question is the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Foreign Trade and Foreign Affairs: - What did you take on my initiative from July this year to send a note to the authorities of the Republic of Serbia and take steps to protect the assets of Agrokommerc d.d. The large Kladuša in Belgrade, which is still being exposed to objections to its alleged privatisation, and is essentially the usual formula for organised robbery of BiH's assets in other countries? I have no information whether you were doing what you were doing or what you were doing, but the process of selling this property has not been suspended, and the only ones who have continued to fight for the property of this company is seven workers who are currently working in it. In this time, I have received more new appeals from workers of this company, with a request to help them preserve this property, and the last one in a series is twenty days ago that I am referring to this issue. The third question is the BiH Justice Minister's question in the Council of Ministers: - At which stage of the trial is the case of a quadruple murder which has been conducted for more than 14 years against Pivić Emin, Vardić Safet, Tutić Muharem, Ćehić Mehmed and Seferagić Fikret... in Bihac on suspicion or charges that they are 20.7.'93. The year in the centre of Bihac, without any reason, in a monstrous way, killed Begić Arif, Alagić Rasim, Tutić Adem and Abdagić Nisreta from a Nisret? It's a very short explanation. This unquestionably crime has been a taboo topic in Krajina for years and represents an eclectic example from a time when individuals and groups, under the protection of the then military and political authorities in Bihac, were literally able to do what they wanted to do, and so far they have not been processed and punished. According to my knowledge, the investigation in this process is still, in some way, ongoing and allegedly in the interest of the investigation, continuing to submit ongoing requests for further investigations and thus being obstructed until further processing of this crime and is indefinitely delayed! I recall that the perpetrators of this crime at the time of the crime were members of the Fifth Corps of the BiH Army, that after the crime they were detained, and then mysteriously escaped from military prison, so that, after several months of alleged hiding, they would remain prominent members of the Fifth Corps military police and followers of some political, military figures in the then-war district. This crime is not just an eclectic example of cruelty and the state of security at the time, but an example of the fear and intimidation of investigators, witnesses, family members, victims of crime and anyone who may be a potential danger to the perpetrators of crime on the way to justice, which continues today. In the interest of the truth, with the data on the state of the process, I would like to be provided with information on the current course of the investigation and the possible process and the names of the people who conducted the investigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15402	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Alajbegović. Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15403	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have two very short questions. The first question is: - Is the Bologna Declaration ratified and, if not, what are the reasons for the non-ratification? And the second question is: - What does the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Civil Affairs think about standardising conditions for the opening of new colleges in BiH, in order to regulate the area of higher education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15404	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15405	I have three questions. We are all witnessing that in recent weeks, one of the country's most important issues is the issue of old foreign currency savings. Like my colleague Jovičić – he is not here at the moment – but I also support and I am against any announcement, any violence in BiH. However, I am against the country's care when it comes to old foreign currency savings. It is obvious that they have been denied their fundamental human rights and I remind this Parliament that this Council of Ministers has, among other things, been one of the points on which they will focus in this mandate, among other things, asked the question of old foreign savings. He particularly pointed out that himself as chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Given that more than a year has passed of this Council of Ministers' meeting, I ask the question: - What has the BiH Council of Ministers done specifically in the current meeting with a view to resolving the issues of old foreign currency savings? The second question: - What have you done specifically regarding the issue of the adoption of the Law on Restitution, i.e. the return of property and the compensation of natural, legal persons whose property is governed by the rules on agrarian reform, confiscation, sequestration, nationalisation and expropriation, and other rules adopted and applied after 1945? I refer the issue to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. And a third question. Given the commitments made to the Council of Europe, I ask the question: - What have you done so far with the aim of making and adopting the Law on Cultural Heritage in BiH, and adopting the Strategy for the Development of Culture in BiH? I'm asking the Minister of Civil Affairs this third question. 19 And besides these questions, I propose the chairman of this House that at the end of this session we accept one conclusion – that I would not, on purpose, wish not to answer the first part of the question – which would read: That the House of Representatives should receive an overview of all parliamentary issues to which it is not answered until the 20th session of the House of Representatives. In particular, there are questions that I asked four, five or six sessions ago, as well as other colleagues, but we still haven't received an answer. For example, I asked the question: What about solving property issues of returnees in Janj?, Mr Sadović a few months ago, but until today I have not received an answer! In order not to open that question today, I suggest, therefore, that we adopt this conclusion and that we have an overview of the outstanding questions at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15406	Thank you. You are aware that we in the College update the questions that are answered. Once you have received that list and we have had a certain period of time after the update if there is a request from Parliament, we will put it within this item of the agenda. At the next session, you will receive a list of all the questions to which it has been answered. The following came from MP Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15407	Dear members of the presidency, respected colleagues, honored guests, I have two very short questions. The Decision at the House of Representatives session of 12.4.2007 ratified the Social Security Agreement with the Republic of Slovenia. According to our knowledge, to date this decision has not been ratified in the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia. Question: - What will the Council of Ministers do to speed up the ratification process in the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia so that BiH citizens, who have been waiting for years, can use their rights on this basis? Another issue I did for the reason I read in the paper, which is, says: "These days, the NGO Spona from Republika Srpska filed a criminal report against 52 Bošnjak from Srebrenica to the Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes of the Republic of Serbia in Belgrade." I ask the question: - What will be taken by the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, in particular the BiH Prosecutor's Office of Human Rights and Refugees for the Protection of BiH citizens as well as the overall integrity of the BiH legal system? I think I'm looking for an answer to these questions in writing. This second question is very interesting to me because today is our delegation, as far as I know, for human rights in Belgrade. Mr Ahmetović is visiting. I'm afraid he's not on that list and he'll be trapped in Belgrade like Ilija Jurišić, and then... then we'll deal with his question. So I think this is a very current question. Thank you very much. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15408	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Erić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15409	Gentlemen, the chairman of the esteemed guests, respected ministers, esteemed colleagues, since I have not received – and co-workers necessarily – since I have not received an answer to my parliamentary question that I asked on two occasions, I repeat it: - What about the agreement between the Serbian Orthodox Church and BiH?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15410	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jamakosmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15411	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, my question is addressed to the Foreign Ministry. According to my knowledge, there is a practice at the BiH Foreign Ministry to resolve the status that comes back after the DKP mandate, or their degradation in the status that they had before they went to the post. After returning, many are offered statements that they voluntarily sign their degradation despite the Law on State Service, which defines the matter differently. In regulated countries, it is normal for civil servants of this level to advance after returning from work from the DKP or at least retain the same status as they had in the ministry's headquarters until they went to certain destinations. I ask: - Does the foreign minister set up an ad hoc personnel structure in the DKP and ask for a written reply on the working status of the people who returned from work from the DKP? Where are they, what are they doing and what are they going to do, their national structure and a precise report on all the internal installations in the MIP for the last year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15412	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15413	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I refer the question to the BiH Council of Ministers: 21 - Why is BiH not a member of the World Customs Organisation, what is it doing and what will the BiH Council of Ministers take to join BiH in this organisation? I believe that BiH's membership in this organisation would allow competent authorities (the Customs Service, the Directorate for indirect taxation, the OSA security agencies, SIPA and others) the possibility of making available important information on the cross-border movement of goods, people, services and any other relevant information, which will make it possible to work better and more efficiently for the BiH institutions. In fact, the membership of this organisation is about 9,000 euros. I believe that this is not enough reason for BiH not to be a member of this organisation, and the benefits it will benefit from membership, I think they are very important and important, that it will allow a significant increase in the efficiency and effectiveness of the work of these said institutions, which will ultimately result, I am convinced, and a significant increase in funds through the Administration of indirect taxation, because the role of customs authorities and services in the VAT system is very important, and otherwise in the system of public income collection.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15414	Thank you. If there are no more reports, I'll conclude this item on the agenda. Moving to the 3rd point of the agenda: Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Sports of Bosnia and Herzegovina I remind you that at the 16th session, we formed a task force with the task of trying to bring the amendments and the resolution ministers into line with the amendments and propose a text that could be supported by the House. The Working Group worked in line with the House's conclusion and, together with amendments and resolution ministers, agreed on those amendments. You have received a task force report containing 19 amendments. So they're in sync with the Secretary of Resort. These amendments cover certain amendments submitted during the plenary phase in modified form. I also consider the members of the College as chairpersons that we have practically, in accordance with Article 118(3)(b), tasked our task force to try to bring these amendments into line, and that we are at that stage of the debate. The only question is, what about the report of our Constitutional Commission that we can resolve, means that we reject this report, and that we accept amendments that have been modified in a way that does not provide for Article 118(3) or another way to assign our Constitutional Commission to submit a new report to Parliament in the course of the debate at this point in the agenda until the vote, which is an open question that we agree with Parliament. I am opening a debate on these amendments and the Working Group Report. Here you go. Dear MP Ajanović, please elect or representative of the task force. Perhaps it would be the most respected Ambassador Halid Genjac. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15416	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished guests, I'll just, I think it's good that at the beginning of this debate, as an explanation and as a rapporteur in front of the task force, I'll just explain what we agreed and briefly remind you of the short chronology, in fact, what was going on. I remind you that the Constitutional Commission has adopted a significant number of amendments to this law. Among these amendments, a significant number of amendments was also unacceptable for a certain group of MPs from one entity, and another number of amendments, again, for a certain group of MPs from another entity. No matter how good, good, useful these amendments have been an obstacle, and by some subjective criterion, it was quite certain that these amendments, adopted on the Constitutional Commission, would not have the necessary support for the parliamentary majority and not be adopted. This led this House of Representatives to appoint working groups to try to agree, to find solutions and to make the most of the compromise, to ensure and support the law. The task force was, of course, working, a compromise was made, a lot of effort was put into it. It was constantly meant to achieve, as far as possible, improving the text of the law, to ensure that this law was adopted as quickly as possible, that as much as possible, the proposals that were here and, of course, at the same time supported by the parliamentary majority, which is, of course, the final result that we simply need. By treating the amendments, adopted on the Constitutional Commission, I must inform that for one number of amendments, it was enough to correct them and to correct them, to the satisfaction of all, to be acceptable. One number of amendments needed to be changed in part... to become acceptable. One number of amendments had to be made and one number of amendments, which were adopted, we had to give up, all in this purpose I'm talking about. Working, therefore, in full composition as a commission and with a permanent presence and a very productive contribution from the Minister of Civil Affairs and with the permanent statement of the Minister of Civil Affairs, which is acceptable to the Ministry, we have come to this result and I stress that... and the minister has declared that the ministry is also acceptable to what we have done. Personally, when all of this is added together, yes,...in relation to the original text that came from the Council of Ministers here, these amendments significantly improve the text of the law and improve the resolution of this important issue in BiH. I just remind you that efforts to adopt the BiH Sport Act have been going on for years. There were several attempts that ended in failure and we were aware of those facts when we talked and as a working group. Once all this amendment has been adopted, if accepted, it remains that the law has resolved the most important issues of sports in BiH. Both Olympic and Paralympic, and Sports Alliances, and those that exist, and those who will be founded – that it has retained the principle of decentralised sport because, in accordance with the competences of the state, entity and canton, it is indeed so in Bosnia that it has allowed what there are sports alliances in BiH to continue its existence, to achieve the international function of these clubs and these sports alliances, and that these sports alliances, of course, are registered within a certain period, to adopt their acts, in accordance with their law. We have tried, of course, to address the issue of sports financing as much as possible. There are not many countries where the percentage for sport is stated. It's a very small number of countries. We tried that. Unfortunately, at this point, we still don't have the conditions, but the International Monetary Fund didn't exactly look favorably at some of the solutions that were. All that when it's added up, all that when 23 are added together, the ambitions that we have to solve with this law I think they're getting rid of. The ambitions to make an ideal solution, we as members of the working group, of course, have left for some other time because at this point it must be an ambition to get a parliamentary majority and to adopt the law. I'll fly over for a while, because the amendments really didn't arrive this morning. I'll fly short with solutions, it won't take long, what is it that the agreed amendments provide. The amandman I. refers to Article 4 which refers to the international basis for the organisation of sports in BiH, and, in addition to all the above, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms has been added. And that's where we agreed very easily. amandman II. is a technical question: the strategy is treated as a strategy in the text below. Amendment III. refers to Article 9, where, in addition to all those listed points on the content of the strategy, two more are added: Framework criteria for the evaluation of the programme and their funding in sport. This is one point, and another point: The developers of the development and the measures to control its realization. It's thought of sports in strategy. It's an improvement in the content of the strategy. amandman iv.e. is a rather significant amendment and it establishes what was not in the proposal for a law in the original text. The BiH Sports Council is being established, at BiH level. It is an advisory body composed of prominent sports workers, athletes, sports public workers, who will participate in the development of a strategy, which will also report to the Council of Ministers and also to the Parliamentary Assembly and who will do all that is stated in this amendment. It is a practice in some countries, both in the neighbourhood and in some European countries, which has proved to be very good and we have agreed on that solution. Amendment v. tu is going to specify where sports bearers are spoken of in BiH as being founded. In addition to the Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH, the Law on Associations and Foundations of Entitys is added, as such laws exist, it is only a copy of the existing situation and its sanctioning in a member, in a correct way. It is similar with amandman vi. Amendment VII. refers to Article 20, which I must say, was also the subject of the most difficult consensus because it is known that in the original text the law says that sports alliances, at the level of BiH, are organised in certain sports in order to achieve the objectives of this sport, that these sports alliances are organised on the basis of the decision of entity sports alliances on voluntary association, that only one such alliance can be organised at the level of BiH because it is known that without membership in the sports union of the state, international representation and international role of any club from that group of sports can be achieved. We have a football sports alliance, a basketball sports alliance, a handball sports alliance that already exists and that will, of course, comply with this law but is thought of these sports alliances. We didn't use the professional sports alliance because it's an expression that doesn't exist in modern law that regulates sports. There used to be but it's about sports alliances, sports associations of clubs in a particular family of sports. That was, that member was the subject of discussion. On the one hand, we had the view that the authority of the lower forms of administrative arrangements of BiH must be respected, in line with 24 competences in sport, so that entities have their roles and cantons, etc. and, in the end, the state and that when organising sports alliances, these verticals should be respected. On the other hand, we had the view that the Law on Associations and Foundations and certain conventions in the field of sport guarantee freedom of association and the Law on Associations and Foundations prescribed the number of entities of legal and natural persons who can organise,... association, alliance, etc., association of citizens. Since it is also an area regulated by the Law on the Protection of the Name of BiH, since it is an association that will be registered in order to achieve public office, the international representation of BiH in the field of sport, since we have a situation that must not block the formation of sports alliances at BiH level, in the sense that, let's say, there is no sports alliance in an entity, does this mean that the sports alliance in another entity cannot be registered at the level of BiH because there is no decision of that sports alliance, let's say, in the skiing of another entity! We solved that, that problem had to be solved. Then it was a question. What if some sports alliance from some entity, for various reasons, says: I will not make a decision...to join the BiH Sports Federation? And that question was to be resolved and we solved it. So, because of someone's obstruction, the decision, a whole series of clubs in another entity's sports alliance can be punished for obstructing a sports alliance from another entity. And that question was to be resolved and we solved it. And, in that sort of, in that complex... of that package, that amendment solution, I think we may have traps, possible obstacles removed but, of course, it's said to be organized in accordance with this law and in accordance with the Law on Associations and Foundations to the extent possible, given the final solution. Now let me explain. A new position (4) and (5) has been added. The position (4) states: The seat of sports alliances is determined on the basis of the development of a particular sport, tradition, mass and quality of a particular sports branch. And that's where we came in because there really are some sports that are in certain areas, regions, developed, in others they're not, etc. Stav (5) says: If there is no organised sports alliance at the level of one entity because of the lack of sport, registration of the BiH-level alliance for the sport will be carried out with the agreement of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and until the conditions set out in the stance (3) of this member are met. So we solved this possible situation. If an entity's sports alliance does not exist that the other entity's sports alliance is not punished in such a way as not to form the BiH Sports Federation, the international scene cannot be put on the international stage, to international competitions. In this text which has been received, another part of the text in this amendment VII has been left out. and he will be corrected. This is what we agreed on this morning and that part of the text reads: Article 20(3) adds at the end of the text: In the case of a dispute between entity sports alliances, the Council of Ministers decides on it. In fact, it is said that the BiH Sports Federation is being organised by the entity's sports alliances decision, on their voluntary association and nothing more. The sentence is now added: In the case of a dispute between entity sports alliances – therefore for some reason because the entity sports alliance is unable to make a decision, it does not make a decision in that case, so when a dispute occurs – a decision is made by the Council of Ministers. The intention was to prevent the possibility of blocking, to enable one sports alliance of an entity, which has met all the conditions, to fulfill its function while conditions are met... from the previous member. So this part is agreed this morning and it should be added to this text during the session. Amendment VIII This is a technical correction: one attitude is deleted. Amendment IX. In Article 23, as defined by the Olympic Committee, as established, etc., who makes it: top athletes, experts and sports workers, we added: according to the provisions of the Olympic Charter. This is an improvement of this member, and this is what many sports workers have recommended, Olympic representatives, so that it would be good for the Olympic Charter to be listed in that article, to do so in accordance with the provisions of the Olympic Charter. And we agreed to that. Amendment X. In Article 24 (1), which refers to the adoption of acts, the organisation of bodies, etc., the leadership of the Olympic Committee, you add the words: that all this is done with equal representation from the order of the constituent peoples. And that's where we stayed. A similar provision exists currently in the Statute of the Olympic Alliance of BiH and simply this solution was some formula that was not too hard to even be able to present quality athletes in the Olympic Committee but to allow respect for... the principles of equality in BiH constituent peoples. Amendment XI. It refers to Article 29(1) It is also... the establishment of sports associations related not only to the Law on the Association and Foundations of BiH but also to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Entitys, because these laws exist and this is the state of play and the existing practice as I have previously said. Amendment XII. Also, in Amendment XI. The text was deleted: the statutes of sports organisations, sports alliances. In fact, the establishment of sports associations was stated to be carried out in accordance with the laws of those and the statutes of the sport alliances. One of these unfortunate formulations, probably by mistake, and that's: We've wiped out the statutes of the sports alliances. The remaining calls for laws, relevant in the area. Amendment XII. In Article 33, which speaks of the exercise of the rights of athletes from working relations, we have deleted the rights to be regulated by the Council of Ministers' decision; they are regulated in another way. Amendment XIII. In Article 39(2), the words are added behind the words: the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the BiH Civilian Minister. In fact, it's about the criteria for getting the call of a top athlete. We have strengthened here, and we have given the criteria for acquiring the calling of a top athlete to be adopted by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Civil Affairs, not to be declared and brought by the Minister of Civil Affairs. Amendment XIV. where the conditions for performing health checks are discussed, in Article 46, we have corrected the Minister of Sport in the words of the Ministry of Sports because we do not have a Minister for Sports in the Federation. We have a ministry that deals with the area. Amendment XV. where measures are being taken to combat violence at sports events. In the position (1) beside BiH, we also obliged entities to ensure both the declaration and respect of these measures. Amendment XVI. He refers to the introduction of a new member of 66a, which reads: The State Prize for Sports will be established for an outstanding contribution to the development of sports and affirmation of BiH. The BiH Council of Ministers will make a decision on the establishment of the State Prize for Sports and the criteria for its allocation at the proposal of the Civil Affairs Ministry. 26 There were several amendments that spoke of this state reward, and even its specific name, even the way... regulation. We have estimated that the State Prize, the state recognition for sport, that it is necessary, that it should be in law and what we have been able to achieve is to state in law that: the Council of Ministers will decide on the basis of such a prize at the proposal of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. I think it's quite okay at this point. Amendment XVII. It refers to a list of possible infringements, and another paragraph has been added: that if a sports competition is organised and a sports event is not met, the conditions laid down in Article 50 of this Act are not met. Place of Birth: one of the most important changes in the Member States, including the one in the Member And now this article 69th reads: On the day of entry into force of this law, the Law on the Physical Culture of BiH ceases to apply, and thus the Institute for Physical Culture of BiH, and the property of the Institute passes into property here is misspelled by BiH, it is thought – in the property of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. And point 2. The BiH Special Commission of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs will determine the state of obligations and the Office's Final Account, the list of assets and obligations to employees. And in the end... Amendment XIX. concerns the establishment of a new member of 69a) which speaks of the continuity of the sports organisation as this was not resolved by the law proposed by the Council of Ministers. And now that Article 69a) would read: The BiH Olympic Committee and the BiH-level sports alliances, which acted until the adoption of this law, continue their work and action with the obligation to reorganise and comply with the provisions of this law within six months of the date of entry into force of this law. It's the same, I think, improvement of the law because it speaks of continuity. I thank you for your attention. I think, yes, that all those who have tabled the amendments, as they are addressed to matter, can very quickly see where they need to apply the amendment, etc. if they feel, so I don't see that problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15417	Thank you. We heard a very comprehensive presentation and practically went to the amendment and shortened the time for MPs who needed to be further referred to what the working group had done. We now have reports: Honorable MP Ajanović and Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15418	Mr. President, I'll be brief so we can do this as soon as possible. I, by the way, have put an amendment to this law that has been adopted by the Constitutional Commission, aware of certain things that must be changed and upgraded and worked. The Commission, which worked here, comes from one basic... which is that, by doing so, it violates constitutional provisions, that citizens must join at 27 levels of canton and entity, and that they must then...joint at BiH level. This, under the Constitution, is an infringement of Article III point 5 of the Constitution, and then Article II of point 2 of point 3 of the third indent i) etc., not to mention them. Therefore, it cannot be taken and applied to certain parts of the Constitution in one way and to other parts of the Constitution. We are in a political organisation, you can register a political party as an association of citizens, or I don't know how, in one municipality and it is, while registered, registered throughout BiH. And we now do not allow sports clubs to join together but must first join at the cantonal level, so when they join at the cantonal level to go join at the entity level, so that entities, by their own good will, accept to join the Alliance of BiH. My amendment was, so it's about that. I have to say that this commission has done a lot of work, that she's done a lot of work and improved the current text of the law, it's without a dilemma, and there's a lot of their solution I'm going to... I think the biggest problem with a member is with a member of their amendment, that is, amandman vii.. but this is Article 20. The law on sport where they left their unchanged, their members 1st, 2nd and 3rd, and thus directly threatened the right of people to self-organize, self-associate. And that is why I believe that; on the other hand, they have improved the text by adding, where they added, two more items, but have left in this text that consent can be given by the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs. So it's someone else again, not the teaming up. So I think it's a violation of the real constitution to the end, and the law could change well. No member would be in violation if they would just add two words and this is in Article 20(3)... behind words, behind words: entity sports alliances, it is under... are added words: or sports clubs and all other texts remain the same. So it would be left right to clubs if they could join BiH at the level of the alliance without having to wait for someone to let them do it or not because the constitution allowed them to. And finally, I think, we can agree on certain texts but we can't agree on what's already being said in the Constitution. That's what we have to do. Therefore, what is said in the Constitution, we must do so and we must agree on a change in the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15419	Thanks, buddy. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15420	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15421	Will you allow a replica of this exhibit? Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15422	Well, I have to say, since Honorable colleague Ajanović has made a few allegations that do not stand. Whether for the reasons of those who listen not to understand the matter or to misread it and I as a member of the task force, I think we've really made an effort, but I would remind you that, however, this law has 28 specific characteristics of lex specialis. I would remind you that in the world you have a ban on State interference in sports matters in many areas where it is explicitly prohibited, and you know it, all of you who follow sports activities, you know, when, as well as FIFA, both the prominent sports institutions in the world react to such things. So you can't use everything you use in sports in other things. Not because, in a way, we wouldn't want to. We were yesterday, I wouldn't be burdening Parliament right now, how much we brought out the dilemma yesterday what would have happened if it had been. If it were such an interpretation, it means... that my little football club from my village wouldn't be able to challenge him from the right to find himself somewhere to compete with Baern from Munich. He wants to use his own, so someone can't say. There's so much order, well, neither do I, standing, you know, or three of them agree to make 16 leagues in one contest and the rest. What is proposed in this way, this possibility would be the introduction of anarchy into sport. And in this way, the introduction of order is ensured, and these are simply experiences that have been taken over from the world and where there are rules. So I'm saying, I'm going back to the beginning, the Sports Act has the characteristics of a lex special because, however, they have to apply special rules, and most importantly, you can't influence the results with the law. If you cannot meet the Olympic norm, you can join whatever alliance you want and whatever organization you want, you will not go to the Olympic Games and there is no constitutional or any other right. You can use it as a viewer.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15423	Dear Ambassador Ajanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15424	I'd replicate my colleague where he... In fact, I would ask him to state the legal provisions that, or constitutional provisions, which he has now stated exist, that order should be introduced in the way he says when the Constitution regulates matter quite differently. And secondly, I've listed the exact members of the Constitution that regulate it. I ask him to specify the members of the Constitution who have the opposite of what is stated and then we will... easily... explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15425	Thank you. Dear Kalabić. Another replica regarding this agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15426	Mr. Ajanović, I was talking about lex specialis. There are no explicit provisions in the Constitution that regulate this question. You are misreading and completely misapplying them, and when you install this story, the special provisions that apply to the sports activities that exist in the world, you will come to this law, to anything else, because, in your opinion, if it were your interpretation that each and every way can be organised, it means that the sports alliance can't order anyone to take advantage of the possibility tonight and make ten of their organizations in any way. I ask you: How will you, using the absolute right to association that you propose, how will you form then sports organisations? In what way will you come to order in sports? I think that such an interpretation of the Constitution is absolutely unacceptable... and inapplicable to the Law of Sports. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15427	Thank you. He is now a respected MP, Novaković, so Bećirović, and Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15428	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, firstly, I have one procedural question for the task force. The House's conclusion was that the working group with amendments, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, would conduct a debate, meaning, and possibly come up with agreed amendments. What criterion did the working group take when selecting an amendment that they would agree with, and with which they would not comply with the text of the law, since I am one of the amendments that did not agree with this text, i.e. I suppose that my amendments were not even discussed in the working group? I guess someone would call me if...! It is very difficult for a very short time to see the Report and compare it with the legal provisions but also with all the amendments that have been here, so I won't do much about it, but I am interested in Amendment IV and the unresolved status issue of the Council. So, is this advice going to be a professional body, whether people will be employed in it, and if not, why didn't we write, it means they won't! In which way it will be financed and, of course, all because it is 17 members of the Council and, indeed, if this issue is not fully considered, it can well cost this budget and a significant part of the funding provided for sport, it can actually go into this advice or for the purposes of the work of the Council. I'm saying I didn't see this through. What I'm also trying to say is that I don't need anyone to allow me to make amendments. So, I have made amendments, in accordance with Article 118(2), and I hope that it will not be debated whether Parliament today will declare them. So there are two groups of amendments. The ones I invested – so which I put on the amendment agenda again – which are not accepted, I guess I don't have to propose them again in this break? I once proposed them, and I expect the House to declare itself about them. To these others, you obviously took my right, and I wouldn't do it any further, but here I would ask the president of the task force to tell me what the criterion is – the first question: What criterion did he use in selecting the amendment promoters to talk to the working group?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15429	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Raguž, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15430	About Mr Novaković's discussion concerning Amendment IV. defining the introduction of new Articles 11, 11b), i.e. the establishment of a Sports Council. I think things are clear here and I can't accept that they're vague and leave any doubt. 30 I was the promoter of this amendment and I agreed to substantial changes... within the initial version of the law, because my amendment provided that this body be appointed by the Parliamentary Assembly in agreement with the Minister and Council of Ministers. It was accepted to be appointed by the Council of Ministers and to be placed administratively on the Ministry of Civil Affairs. So, the administration that's already being paid will be doing these jobs. No extra costs, no professionals but a profession, a profession, and somebody should finally say what a strategy sport is based on profession. How much of this the Council of Ministers, the ministry, will accept, will be their responsibility, and this report will also be submitted to this parliament. And really, I consider this article to be a clean, clear, and perhaps the greatest possible shift in the quality of this law. And I still have an answer for Mr. Novaković. We had a debate about each of his amendments. So there was no negative selection, no political or any other.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15431	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Genjac wanted to answer on behalf of the task force. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15432	We did not invite a kolega, Novaković, to a working group meeting. The meeting called the Secretariat, we had stenograms of the debate, we had all the amendments, we had the minister of civil affairs, and we had three members of the task force in charge of finding a compromise. We used those elements in our first attempt to see if we could find a compromise,...with all that was in our hands. And we did it. Anyone who is not satisfied with the modification of their amendment or the absence of its amendment has, therefore, the possibility to renew the amendment, and that is the approach.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15433	Thank you. The following came to the discussion, honourable MP Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15434	Thank you. Here I must say the name of the BiH SDP Club that our views on this law are diametrically different from those of the people who belong to the parliamentary majority. We first want to point out that BiH is the only country on the European continent that does not have the Sport Act. We also want to ask the question and responsibilities of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Civil Affairs, and not just in this assembly. I would like to say that in the last five years, the Ministry of Civil Affairs has spent over 30 million marks of taxpayers' budget in this country. And in those five years, here we have, as a result, when it comes to the Law on Sports, a proposal for text that is certainly the worst text of the law that has any European state... and in this form. But after so much money spent in BiH, we have a law, or bill, in a second reading today on benches. 31 We think it is necessary to pass the Law on Sports in BiH, but we also think that a quality Sport Act should be passed. I must say that if the amendments had already been agreed, if it had already been a public debate, at least... there was no obstacle in this law not to do so – it could have been clearer to specify the rights of athletes. Why – I ask the question –.. The law on sports in BiH, why does it have to be the most restrictive law in Europe regarding the precision of the rights of athletes? I am responsible for this, and I am ready to compete with the laws on sports in other countries and in BiH. In this law, there is no saying that athletes are forbidden to expose sports activities that threaten or worsen their health status, there is no obligation, the rights and responsibilities of athletes to regulate sports rules, a collective contract in the field of professional sport. There is also no right of athletes that when a physical injury occurs to him, he has the right to compensation for damages if his injury is done to him by intentional or harsh violation of sports rules. I, in previous discussions on this law, spoke several times about it, suggested, pointed out, however, it was obviously not respected at all. The law does not specify at all, as it was done in the laws of other European countries, student sports associations. I ask the question: Why? Did it bother anyone to regulate it by law?? I'm particularly asking the question, "What about school sports?" Every developed European country is paying great attention to this school sport. All the countries in Southeast Europe have a whole chapter on school sports in their Sport Act. Did it bother anyone in this law to regulate school sports and to prepare through that vision, possibly tomorrow, and top athletes, as well as to develop a young generation in this country? Unfortunately, it's not in this law. The question of funding sports is almost never solved by this law! The great lack of this law, I was saying in my first reading, is that in terms of funding we're going to be the only state that won't know what its public needs are in a state-level sport. Why? It would be good for someone to answer that question. Given that I have invested a large number of amendments, I must say that of all these amendments, only two have been partially accepted, so that I remain with all my amendments, and I would like to call once again on the Members to accept these amendments, above all for the following reasons. In amandman I., I said another point of view would be added in Article 2 after the position d) which would include sports education. This first amendment aims to... legally specify sports in BiH, by adding sports education that should enable training in physical exercise, development of physical skills and acquisition of sports habits. I remind you... that a large number of other countries have done it. This Regulation shall amandman into He's partially accepted, so I'm not going to comment on him this time. Amendment III. In Article 10(1) of the statement of consent, I suggested that the opinions obtained be replaced. The same article after the position (1) adds a position (2) which reads: the BiH Council of Ministers brings the Annual Programme for Realisation of the Strategy and the Programme for Sport Development in BiH, which determines the holders of preparation and realization, deadlines and sources of funding. The third amendment: So, I explain how to prepare and implement the strategy and development programme for sports in BiH. 32 in amandman iv.e in Article 20(3), we proposed that it be deleted. Also, I must say that in Article 37, so amandman v., after the position (2) under c), we have proposed to add a new position that reads: A athlete to whom another competitor, when competing, has a physical injury, has the right to compensation if the injury is done to him by intentional or harsh violation of sports rules. I think the fifth amendment really needs to guarantee one of the important rights of athletes guaranteed in most developed European countries, and I don't see any obstacle to putting this part into this law at least. Amendment VI. In Article 45(2) behind the words: only a person can participate in sports competitions for which words are added: within a period of six months before the sport competition. Amendment VI, therefore, specifies the period of determination of the general health capacity of a person who wants to participate in sports competitions. Amendment VII. He has several views, therefore, to improve the text of this law but is essentially talking about the organiser being obliged to ensure a smooth and safe maintenance of sports competitions and sports events in BiH. Given what has been happening and is happening on sports grounds in BiH, I think this would be useful and important for this amendment to be adopted. Therefore, clear obligations and conditions must be established by the organiser before the sport event is held. Amendment VIII In Article 64 following the position (1), I propose, therefore, this amendment, to add a new Article 2 which reads: Public needs of state-level sports are: encouraging and affirming sports, especially sports of children, young people, students and persons with disabilities. ( b) Encouraging the planning of the construction of sports facilities. Under c) Care of top athletes. Under d) The operation of the sports alliances and the BiH Olympic Committee. Under e) The operation of the information system in sport, scientific and development programmes in sport, international sport co-operation and international obligations of BiH, as well as the award of the State Prize for Sports. I wouldn't explain much, given that at first I said about this. And amandman IX.. I must say, this joint commission has accepted the idea that we have the State Sports Award. However, the amendments I have tabled are much more precise and clearer as to what state-run sport award, which is being awarded, what kind of reward is being given, to form a commission, whether, for the State Prize for Sports, etc., but very important, it is in these amendments that I have submitted, to say: that it has awarded the State Prize for which I propose to bear the name of BiH's largest athlete in the 20th century, the name Mirza Delibašić, that this is the State Prize of State Interest, and the funds for the award are provided in the BiH Budget. This is, therefore, very important where funds are provided for the State Prize for Sports, and this is not in this proposal from the Commission that agreed to this text and delivered to us. And in Amendment X. – it is the only amendment that has been fully accepted; so I propose and remain with these amendments, and I call on my colleagues to accept these amendments, and, when we adopt these amendments, so many really large gaps in this law are likely to have access to amendments and supplements as soon as possible so that at least the Law on Sports in BiH resembles laws that have other more developed countries. Unfortunately, this law does not have nearly such quality solutions. If we didn't already know and we didn't want to, or I don't know what the third reason was, is to make 33 a better sport law, at least I repeat it, and on the second reading, we could see what our neighbours in Croatia or Serbia did. Both countries are realistic, we can say freely, sports powers and at least we could use some of them, their experiences, so that athletes in BiH, from the ranks of all its peoples and citizens, would have the opportunity to have a better Sport Act. I will end up with athletes in BiH, people in this country deserve a certainly better Sport Law than the one that is on the benches of the House of Representatives today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15435	Thank you. The next one was registered for discussion by Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15436	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, firstly, let no one in Parliament think that it is interesting to listen to him if he speaks... over time, and I will not tolerate what he calls it,... and this Rules of Procedure will be respected only as much as we all try to respect the Rules of Procedure, and you are here the most responsible, most called, and I ask you to act in this regard and in this direction. That's the first thing. It's another thing. Of course, that BiH needs both better and more quality and more content of the Sport Act, and if anyone can ensure that such a law is obtained here in Parliament today, I will join him, I will publicly say that he is responsible for that law. We have received legislation from the Council of Ministers, for which I have personally assessed that such content, perhaps unconsciously, contains some provisions that, if adopted, can bring this matter into serious crisis, or can lead to serious problems. The Constitutional Commission has adopted many amendments and improved the text but, unfortunately, it cannot pass here in Parliament. Afterwards, we formed this working group that did something between the text that came from the Council of Ministers and what was adopted by the Constitutional Commission and was resolved, by working group interventions, some of the dilemmas that I had and some of the fears that I, as an MP, had, and the key thing is that it was made possible by existing already organised sports alliances, clubs, institutions in that area – continuity in their functioning. It was a key thing for me, and this group solved it. About some things that would make the text of this law better, we don't have the consent here. That's what we saw when we discussed, last time, the Constitutional Commission report. However, about some things I am convinced that we could reach agreement and improve, therefore, the text of the law, which was also spoken of by a previous colleague. I don't think there's anyone here who's against us hurting inside sports, real athletes, doing it that way, I think we can, but there are changes and additions to this law. Let's adopt, therefore, this text of the law that certainly means improvement in relation to existing practice. There are some things we will not be able to resolve in the next period because there is no agreement and I think in a month or two we can have a law on amendments to the law, this law, in the circumstances of about 34 which, I think, there should be no dispute between us in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The law is living matter, the law regulates social relations. What it's all about is consent. I think it can be arranged for these changes. That is why I propose that we adopt this law today, by accepting the amendments adopted by this group, and I ask the other colleagues to give up their amendments. Otherwise, if they don't give up, then they'll have to vote to get to the text of the law today. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15437	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Huskić and I have registered Jašarević, Alajbegović, if it is not a mistake. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15438	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, I've done a lot, I would say, seriously, since I'm a member of the Constitutional Commission, and I've followed all the law-making and amendment activities and I have to say that I agree with a lot of colleagues who have attached amendments, who defend them, and who do not agree or fully agree with the text of the law and, of course, it's everyone's right, it's legitimate, but also, I think that this law has made a good step and, if we look at it on one side and on the other, it means what's wrong, what's good, I think there are more positive things in it, there's more good than bad. If we ask ourselves a question: Is it better to have a law like this that most agree on, and many have observations or do not have it at all, then I join those who are in favor of having the law? I'm going to say something else that's not directly related to the law, and it concerns the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and I think it's correct to say it and to say it humanly. It may not be polite of me because the minister is here but all of us who are in the Constitutional Commission, and this committee of Parliament, in our discussions, have said that the ministry has been responsible for this law all along. They've been coming to all our committees and I don't think it's right to invite them for anything. I don't even think that this is the position, this text of the law, that's the attitude of either the minister or the ministry. This is what has come: the Council of Ministers' position, and this is the fruit of the compromise, and what we are adopting today, and these amendments adopted by our committee, is the same, and this is... the result of a difficult compromise. Sport, unfortunately, and even this law, is the terrain through which many other things are broken from our society, from our country, and we need to be aware of it, and, what we can do, this is this, and I say: I will support this law and I think I can say the name of the entire club, no one will be angry with me, I think the Party to BiH will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15439	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jašarević. Here you go. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15440	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to begin by giving recognition to this committee that has succeeded, from a number of amendments that have been made and our aim to pass the law, to find something that can be said at this point that it is possible for us to agree, and I will warmly support these amendments, i.e. the whole of this law. What I would like to do, without investing any amendments, is ask the group to consider until the vote whether it is possible to bring all amendments in line with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in Institutions. So it's clear to me that this was one speed and that, out of the desire to find some compromise, was detached in some members. Let's just say, it's very good that a member entitled in the last amendment has been inserted. In other cases, when members are inserted, it is not, therefore, the title is put and I think it would be good but I think it would be good if we didn't insert members marked with a) but in this basic text of the law to be numbers from 1st to 77th as the Unique Rules command. It's not as hard as... looks, what it would look like now when you're talking. So, we only need these amendments with a certain number of words to be complemented and then we would have a complete text of the law in line with the Single Rules. This one, these letters and numbers are mostly for changes to the law, and I think it would be good to avoid that trap. It can be about amendments and votes because they are of a technical nature, and that later the working group and those who follow the final text of the law can, therefore, write a law in accordance with the rules to be from the first to the last member as the basic text of the law is passed. Why, here, would it be good to do that? It is about that law that will be interesting for a large number of users and will go outside BiH and it would be good if the first basic text was written in accordance with these rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15441	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Alajbegović. It's you; you didn't sign up?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15442	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15443	I don't have any more reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15444	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15445	So, Reverend Bećirović, a replica. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15446	I would really be happy if everyone consistently interpreted the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives in all members, not just in certain situations. However, it is the right of the majority to think that this is a good law, as is the right of both the SDP and the opposition to say that this is not a good law. We not only think it's our right but we've proved to the arguments that it is. Yeah, I only answered for one thing. I don't think this country has the right to make bad laws anymore. The country initialled a Stabilisation and Association Agreement last December. We expect this year to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. What does this Parliament and this country expect after the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement? We are expected by a number of concrete obligations, among other things, and the obligation to enter, exactly so, Selime, into the mandatory phase of bringing domestic legislation into line with the EU acquis. Why waste time, not just on this law but on other laws? Why don't we immediately start passing European laws, laws that have countries in the EU? It's a very important message for all of us, not only when it comes to the Sport Act, but also about the other laws. And, of course, I repeat again: there was no obstacle in this law to install a chapter on school sports, a chapter on sports of students, student sports associations, etc. Because I believe that it would not be against the national interest of any people, and it would be in favor of, absolutely certain, both school and student youth in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15447	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zorić, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15448	I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues and I hope to be brief. Unlike many, I think this is the best sport bill we have ever had in the parliamentary procedure in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and I think it is better to have, respecting what my predecessor said in several of his discussions and replicas, it is better to have any law on sports than none! When counterpart Bećirović said this was a very bad law, he asked me to report it, and I will repeat what my colleague Džaferović said; I agree completely with him that the law is something changeable, so that, after the adoption of the House of Peoples and this House of Representatives, we can change, so here we agree with EU laws, laws to be prepared to welcome that day, Bog forbid it to be as soon as possible. The sport law is something that athletes and sports workers need in BiH and I thank this working group for finding the strength to find a compromise solution, i.e. to agree with the laws, and also to thank the resolute minister who certainly contributed to this task force, I am at least so informed that compromise solutions are found so that we have agreed amendments today and to adopt the law in the second reading. What I would like to underline here, too, is that I do not dispute any of the amendment's proposings to declare them today, but I would also suggest, not just because of this point, the College to determine when we will plead, at what time, not on this law, but on everything up to 37 then-discussed laws. So our session is – is it theoretically possible – to stretch on endless days, can be interrupted and be continued but it would be good to know if we will vote today at four o'clock. About what? About what we finished and then the second deadline, etc. So, I'm underlining it briefly, clearly: I support the Sports Act. I do not claim that it is the best of all but the best so far proposed in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and I suggest that we all support this law but also, after adoption, after adoption in the House of Peoples and after implementation, that a public debate may be organised... to allow alliances, the Olympic Committee and all other interested parties to make their remarks and therefore bring amendments and additions to the same law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15449	Thank you. As far as I can tell, there are no more reports to discuss. I would like to suggest, what we have discussed in the College, in which way we will get out of this item of the agenda, that we put this law to the vote today, but that none of the MPs is denied the right to amend to this law in the additional period. We have decided to task the task force to – in the period until the start of the vote, which will be marked when we have completed all the points of the agenda because it is agreed – agree and see which amendments have been accepted by the Constitutional Legal Commission, which amends, when the Constitutional Commission of 8 October has adopted 23 amendments which are an integral part of the law. We must give an additional amendment that refutes the other amendments in order to vote afterwards on the amendments to the working group and on all those amendments that MPs want to defend again, including amendments to the work group proposal which can either be either the killing or the modification of those amendments and allow MPs to make an adequate contribution until the start of the vote. Anything that comes in writing here on the table, we're going to put it to a vote and that way we're going to get out of this agenda point. Is there anyone involved in this proposal to add anything that I could conclude a debate about this? Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15450	Since we didn't get that new Rules of Procedure, I'd like you to give it to us as soon as possible to have it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15451	I think they've all got a new rules of procedure. She gave the service to everyone. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15452	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15453	I don't know. We at the SDP Club didn't believe this new rules of procedure, and here's a suggestion: it would be good if you'd share it with us as soon as possible. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15454	According to clubs, "The Official Messenger" was won, by clubs.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15455	We'll check it out. And the second question is about these amendments, for those who want to defend their amendments. Does this mean that we have to deliver to you again in writing that we want to defend or is this enough to say orally during the debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15456	It would be good for clarification, for making things easier for us. So, just to give it in writing that you want to defend your amendments and we'll put them all to the vote, from first to last.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15457	My question, given that the session is under way: Does that mean we have to go out now or, since we delivered, here?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15458	So there's a delay until the vote, that you just confirm that you want your amendments. You can even say verbally at the session. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15459	I'll say it orally.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15460	It's not a problem. Here's a sentence. It's not a problem. Is there anyone else who might still have any suggestions about this Kolegijum proposal? Dear Ambassador Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15461	Since it is obvious to us, you intend to give us work, I would ask you now, at this point, all MPs who have submitted amendments: therefore, three variants have. Amendments accepted on the Constitutional Commission can be renewed for these reasons now. Amendments not accepted on the Constitutional Legal Commission may be defended. The amendments that challenge these amendments can be invested. I would ask: all MPs who have submitted the amendments and want them in a different version now to renew that it is now spoken orally because we would now like to make a statement, because the secretary of this working group is already working on preparations and then MPs would not have to write this. We have it all in the computer – amendments submitted – just so we know who wants us to systematicize it. All those who have submitted to declare whether they will renew the amendments. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15462	Of course, but we have given the possibility that, on your report, fellow MPs, if they consider some of your amendments to be wrong, to put in a new amendment that refutes it and I call on all MPs to deliver everything to the working group within four hours, and we will declare ourselves afterwards. If we're done arguing about the way we're going to get out of this agenda point, we're going to move to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Proposal for a law on wine, brandy and other products of grapes and wine You are aware that the procedure, which we had on this law at the 18th session, we postponed the debate and commissioned the competent committee to re-examine the proposal and, possibly, in accordance with Article 118(3) – propose amendments after which the dom would discuss and decide once again the amendments to the Proposal for a Wine Law. We received a report from the Commission responsible for foreign trade and customs on 28 December 2007 and in that report we have 13 amendments adopted by this Commission and which become an integral part of this bill. In the plenary phase, we had 19 amendments submitted by Slavko Jovičić to defend them again. You've received a report from this committee. I am opening a debate on these amendments and the Commission's report. If there are no reports, Honorable Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15464	Mr. Chairman, we've already held a debate on this law several times, so I won't repeat what I've already said, except for the SDS' commitment to support Mr. Jovičić's amendments. So, depending on the statement of Mr. Jovičić's amendments, it will depend on our relationship with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15465	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda: Ad. 5. Proposal for a law establishing a Institute for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures (Second Reading) I remind you that at the 16th session, the proposal for this law was discussed in the first reading and that it did not then receive an entity majority. At the 18th session, following an agreement in the College and the Commission, 40 Proposals for a Law were adopted in the first reading. We received a report from the committee responsible on 8 January. The Commission adopted the draft law and adopted three amendments that became an integral part of the law. We didn't get the amendments in the plenary phase. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15467	So it's a very important law. We had several amendments on the Constitutional Commission and together with colleagues who submitted amendments to the amendments and brought them into that form and content that is acceptable to all members of the commission. They were accepted by the Commission. There have been no new amendments, and I propose that the law be adopted, of course with the Commission report adopted and these amendments. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15468	Thank you. If there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH (second reading) At the 18th session, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The committee responsible submitted the report on 14 January this year. The Commission adopted the draft law with two amendments contained in the Report and became an integral part of the law. I'm opening a debate. Is there a need to answer that? If not, I'm closing the argument. So, we move to the 7th point of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of BiH (first reading) – Proposers: MEP Šefik Džaferović, Niko Lozančić, Milorad Živković
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15471	Dear colleagues, the Interresor Working Group, of course, has put forth a great deal of effort and we have a proposal for a law on amendments to the Election Law. I am fully aware of the fact that the Interresor Group functions on the principle that what there is a consensus becomes a proposal. And respecting that fact, and that position in which certain members of the Interresor Working Group have been restricted, perhaps, in my ideas, I must nevertheless say that certain provisions of this Electoral Law could have been far better and to meet the necessary measure of solving the problems that exist with the Election Law. In fact, one of the key issues raised with regard to amendments to the Electoral Law is the issue of representation of national minorities and the Interresor Group has resolved this issue in a way that has mainly cited the technical aspects of the issue. I think the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law should go a little further for the reason that the Law on the Rights of National Minorities in Article 20 says: The way and criteria of the election of representatives of national minorities in parliaments, congregations and councils will be governed by the election law of BiH and entities, and the statutes and other laws of the canton. These changes are not about criteria at all. It is said that it will all be settled by the statutes of the municipalities. The problem is that it is possible in such a situation to create a huge colour throughout BiH that cannot be stopped. In fact, in one municipality, 3% of national minorities will say it is enough to represent them. In the second they'll say 5% is enough. In the third he'll say even 10% is not enough, etc. For this reason, I think it would be good to try to make sure during the investment of the amendments that the framework criteria for representation of national minorities in municipal councils are resolved by this law. The next thing that has been done in this proposal to amend the electoral law is, let's say: an extended term of office for all members of election committees from five to seven years. I couldn't find any big reasons why that was. Furthermore, one of the problems encountered during the implementation of the Election Law was the issue of compensatory mandates. The problem with compensatory mandates was that there were not enough candidates on the compensation lists. Now this task force has cited... a solution as far as it can be on the compensation lists. I think it's a good thing, but it was far more necessary by law to prescribe how many candidates must be on the compensation lists, to avoid the situation that we had that there weren't enough candidates on the compensation list and then the problem arises. Article 29 of the proposal says that an independent candidate must state his nationality, among other criteria, when registering for elections. We have been dealing with the issue of nationality on 42 candidate lists for a long time, and we have dealt with this thoroughly with Article 4.19 where the right of candidates not to declare nationality but also to waive and the right to executive mandates for which nationality is a condition. Now, you make a commitment to a candidate who reports an independent list that he has to report his nationality, I don't see why. I think it's in conflict with certain conventions, and that's where we should pay attention and, with the amendment, we should follow that. Election law, this amendment to the Election Law did not address at all the problem that is present when we talk about national minorities. We will ensure the representation of national minorities in municipal councils, however, after the last municipal elections in a tenth of municipalities, both in the Federation and in the RS, we have the situation that, regardless of the results of the latest census where there were individual constituent peoples and 15% and 20%, currently in municipal councils, therefore, even in the Federation in RS, we have a unilateral municipal council. We don't have a representative of the constituent people in the municipal councils. Now we are coming into a paradoxical situation because we have not taken care of, so we are providing national minorities, and the constituent nations, which of course have their rights in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision on constitutionality, which is a statistical minority in one particular environment, are not resolved at all. I think that's gonna have to be fixed by the amendment, too. So, with this, of course, the good side of this bill I'm not going to comment on, there are, of course, a large number of them, but this, I think, these questions that I've been talking about can be corrected by amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15472	Thank you. Dear MP Džaferović, Ivanković, Dolić, Kadrić, Okolić joined in.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15473	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Chairman, I was head of the Interresor Working Group, still am, because we are working on this law on conflict of interest law and the Law on the financing of political parties. You're the Commission's report on the Bill's Proposal and the Commission's report has been received. And right now, let me say that what you got in writing isn't just the result of the work of this interresor working group, because the Interresor Working Group, at the 17th session, practically searched all the solutions of the existing Electoral Law. We have seen certain things that need to be changed, about some we have agreed on, about some we have not agreed on, and the institutions – if it wasn't an Interresor Working Group, which should do something about election issues – we have referred certain suggestions, or we have directed them to this home to adopt them as their own and only then to deliver them to the competent institutions. So the Interresor Group submitted about 80 amendments to the Election Law. Some are technical, and some are legal, and some are essential. But believe me, every solution has had to be a very broad and extensive debate. It is a very important law, where any procedure causes a lot of interest to all and requires consensus practically all in the Interressor Working Group. There are solutions that, whether or not there are solutions why I am not some solution in these changes... I am not satisfied to the end – but it is my personal opinion – from the Interresor Working Group; what you have obtained in writing. And that's why I, relying on or referring to Mr Genjac's discussion, just want to draw particular attention to this home here, when it comes to ethnic representation in local communities, in local councils, that we, given the current situation, are 43 after the next local elections, if we do something, are likely to be able to in many environments where, in the 1991 census, we have a multiethnic picture, we actually have a monoethnic picture of local municipal councils, and I think this Parliament should give an answer to that question. We have not been able to agree on the Interresor Working Group on this, and therefore I call on my colleagues to submit amendments in particular, so when it comes to this matter, and I call on you, so we are talking about all BiH, we are talking about all local councils, and I think it is in the interest of all of us that if national minorities in BiH are guaranteed representation in the local councils and we should do this because we have passed such a law, and that is human and fair at the end, then it is human and fair to do so to the constituent peoples. I expect amendments to the subject, so we'll see, and I urge you once again to think this matter through very seriously. What the Interresor Working Group could not install in the amendments to the Election Law is something proposed to this home to adopt as an initiative of the House. We have noticed four important things when, on Wednesday, the electoral problem in BiH is that it should be in BiH at various levels of government and in various institutions, in the way I will now tell you, that is, you have already received it in your materials. The first issue concerns deadlines for establishing a legislative and executive authority after the elections have been held. You know we have some deadlines in some constitutions prescribed, but those deadlines are not respected. I think it is necessary to adopt an initiative here that these deadlines must be specified and that sanctions must be imposed for non-compliance with these deadlines and logical sanctions are again, or, in fact, extraordinary elections, and I must point out here, since it is also correct, that we have installed this thing as an initiative on the grounds that we in the Interresor Group think unanimously this way, but also because we have received this as an initiative by an NGO called the Centre of Civil Initiatives that monitor the work of our Parliament and it is fair that I do so for their work to say here to all of you and the whole Bosnian Herzegic public. Furthermore, the other initiative refers to the Federation of BiH Constitution. We believe that this parliament should adopt a conclusion or initiative or accept this as its initiative: to suggest to the Federation of BiH Parliament that the provisions of the Constitution of the Federation of BiH should be amended when it comes to the way in which delegations of the constituent peoples in the Council are filled, that is, in the House of Peoples. In order not to, we're not in this situation with circumstances, because the delegations are in full composition, but in the last term, we have had one embarrassing situation where one delegation was not in full shape because there was no technical way to come up with a solution without disrupting the election result and I think we should say it here and ask the federal parliament to implement changes to the Federation Constitution, so that such possibility and theoretically in the future would be avoided and that delegations in the Federal House of Nations would be in the Constitution of the prescribed composition. You know that this parliament passed a law on filling the vacant seat of a BiH presidency member. It's a problem that's been arranged in a rather inconsistencies way. It is not an issue of the Electoral Law, but it is an election issue, i.e., possibly a post-election issue, and we believe that an initiative should be launched in this House to amend this law in order to ensure that the way in which the member of the Bureau is filled in in is in a consistent way to regulate the amendments and additions of this law because, I repeat, what we have today contains, in fact, numerous inaccuracies, numerous illogicalities, and I think they can be resolved by one proper intervention of this Parliament. And finally, the fourth initiative to go towards entity parliaments is an initiative relating to the so-called so-called initiative. harmonisation with regard to the way in which the municipal commissioners are elected. You know that a preferential system is present in the Federation of BiH, in RS it is not a preferential system but a majority system. The Electoral Commission and the Interresor Working Group believe that this is a better solution that exists today in RS, so this majority 44 system and we propose that such an initiative go to entity parliaments. What they're going to do is their business. Finally, therefore, I call on you to support this law in the first reading, that colleagues who have amendments submit amendments, the Constitutional Commission will, of course, be manifested about them. And, in particular, I ask you to take care of this matter regarding the future ethnic structure of local municipal councils and of course these four initiatives that I have highlighted as a unanimous attitude of the Interresor Working Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15474	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ivanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15475	The Honored President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, these amendments do not cover one important area, which is the area of going to the elections. As a consequence, we have in BiH today a large number of officials who have very high authority manage our municipalities, with perhaps only 10-15 or 20% of the support of the total electoral body. The question and legitimacy of these people arises: Can you, with 10 or 15% support of the entire electoral body, possess such powers as to practically create processes in that municipality? The introduction of a mandatory vote in the elections, owned by more than 30 countries in the world, would be a solution to significantly increase the percentage of turnout in the elections and in BiH, and to regulate provisions that would carry out the mandatory vote. So, should we regulate some sanctions on non-voting as regulated by many countries that have financial penalties or the depriving of certain other privileges, or possibly by motivating people to bear the costs they have when voting, the costs of the road, the costs of that day, etc.- I'm sorry. I will support these amendments and amendments to the law, but in further procedure, I will act with the amendments to fix this area too, to get more voter turnout and practically ensure greater legitimacy for elected people in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15476	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15477	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, the electoral law in each country certainly falls within the very top of the law to measure the degree of democracy in that country. When it comes to BiH, I would dare say that our Electoral Law and the technical implementation of the post-war elections is largely ahead of the level of democracy achieved in BiH. Of course, and with such a qualification in the course of the functioning of the law, certain irregularities of 45 or the lack of technical and other nature have been observed, which has, of course, initiated the formation of this Interresor Group and this amendment and addition of the Election Law. Personally, in an indirect manner in the name of the party and as an MP during the preparation of this law, I have given certain opinions and suggestions and I am pleased that one part of these suggestions has found its place in this law. As for the first reading and how this is my first encounter with some kind of integrated text that occurred after a longer procedure conducted by the Interresor Group, I believe it will benefit some of the opinions that I want to make about the individual solutions proposed in the law and, of course, I will make those other proposals in the amendment action. I would like to commend, first of all, the seriousness and engagement that the Interresor Group has invested on the way to the text of the law that is before us and I hope that this will also encourage the Council of Ministers to apply at least the same formula in the procedure of proposing the law, at least when it comes to seriousness. With a number of technical improvements and clarifications treated in this law, I would particularly like to highlight the promotion and simplifications concerning the voter lists in general and the simplification of the vote of BiH citizens who have the right to vote, rather than staying in BiH, the solutions offered in this law. The voter lists, therefore, are run by official duty and it is a matter of automation, and our citizens living outside BiH are either a qualification process or in some way a application for participation in the elections simplifies and is no longer linked to the deadline. So it's a continuous process throughout the year, which is certainly one big thing. This, therefore, is not just a question of one party or the interest of one party individually, but it is a question and a boost to the ties and interests of BiH citizens around the world for their country and I am stressing this in particular. Let me also make a few remarks that I see in this law that can improve existing solutions. In Article 8. relating to Article 2.2. The electoral law, the promoter, with the motive to promote gender equality, when represented by municipal election committees and election committees, seeks to reach that goal by formulating that the number of members of the less represented sex be at least one third of the total. As a member of the Commission on Gender Equality and as an MP, I think that the protection of the less represented sex, in a specific case, will not be ensured by the formulation by seeking to provide but only with an imperative provision will it provide. When it comes to gender equality among elected members of the legislative and executive authority, I think it is not enough what we had in the existing Electoral Law, nor does this law offer any change. I think that in this law, with the existing provisions on imperative representation on the candidates' lists after previous experiences, one step further and a minimum representation should still be regulated through the allocation of mandates and the selection of executive authorities. I don't think we can close our eyes that in this home of 42 MPs we only have five wives or that we don't have a single woman among the members of the Council of Ministers. Article 20 relating to Article 3.12. According to the electoral law, as proposed in the text of amendments and additions, in my opinion, he introduced more confusion than it was in the existing solution. The amendment reads: The voter who changes his residence 45 days before the election will be placed on a copy of the Central Election List in a regular polling post in the municipality in which he was resident until the day of the change of residence. With this formulation, the question arises where will the voters who change their residence 44 or 46 days before the election be found. I think it's a bit of a clumsy formulation, as it is in this law. 46 Articles 56 and 57 try to find solutions for cases where the political entity wins more mandates than the number on the open or compensatory list. I'm afraid the solutions that are offered are going to make such cases a rule or phenomenon, not an exceptional case that happened in the previous elections. I think that this solution instead of the burden of responsibility for failure leads to the motivation of deliberate failure and that, to some extent, it changes the concept on which the entire Electoral Law rests. Finally, I cannot help but refer in particular to Chapter XIV (a) of the law relating to criminal provisions. The elections are an important and sensitive issue in democracy in every country and I unreservedly support everything that provides the highest standards of democracy in this area, but such broad and unaccounted for qualifications of violations of the electoral process, it seems to me that they are more in the function of confusion than in the function of democracy. With this extent of injury and inaccuracy in their definition, the political entity can only end the elections without punishment if it gives up the election or does not run the campaign at all. I would like to see a political subject who will go unpunished like this and I would not like to be in the role of those who will prove or arbitration whether the injury has been done or not. This also gives a far greater chance of subjectivism, sympathy or tendency to facts. If in many areas we cry out for democracy, however nebulous it may seem, in this section that refers to these criminal provisions, or it is the excess democracy (under quotes) or we have misunderstood democracy. I have fundamentally regretted that the Interresor Group no longer paid attention to the amendments to the law to regulate the abuse of public functions, the position of authorities and public property in the pre-election campaign. It is a far more important issue to prevent abuse of functions, abuse of public institutions and public property in the election campaign, rather than sanction the use of some megaphone or other issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15478	Please pay attention in time.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15479	Just one more minute. We are therefore witnessing the entire arsenal of these abuses, from official cars, police escorts and daily visits by high-level delegations to campaign purposes or after calling elections to direct use of budget funds. Of course, these are pre-election activities that are not financed by the parties but by taxpayers and these activities are the privileges of those in power. I think the result of this relationship and the fact that the Interresor Group consists exclusively of people from the ruling coalition and, of course, I didn't expect them to suggest anything here and themselves. So, I will deliver my additional proposals in the amendment's action in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15480	Thank you. Dear MP Kadrić, then Okolić, Belkić, Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15481	Thank you. 47 I will indeed very briefly, since it is therefore a law which is in the draft in this first reading, I will only give two of my brief suggestions, so at that amendment stage I will explain this matter more in detail. So, when it comes to Article 18, I think that a... question should be addressed here – it regulates the issue of central electoral lists and local... municipal electoral lists – I think it should be considered that these electoral lists should allow voters, voters, to be allowed to enroll in these municipal ballots, and according to their 1991 residence. What do I suggest that for? Because we know well that most people, citizens of this country, were forced to leave their posts in '91. and in early '92. A year. Therefore, they have left these residences beyond their will and this law, by amending the Election Law, should be allowed, given the right, not the obligation, that these people have the right to be on these municipal electoral lists, to vote in their respective municipality, in their home municipality, no matter where they are registered, where they live and where they reside. I think that's the thing to think about. I will propose in this respect and amendments. I think that's the thing that has, that's justifiable and that we should support. Secondly, in Article 56 when it comes to these compensation lists and mandates, I think this provision should be a general provision and should refer to these compensation lists and mandates and entities, entity compensation lists and mandates. You know we had this problem when it comes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, this provision should also be extended to the entity lists, compensation lists and mandates, and that this provision has a return fact, i.e. a retroactive fact for the 2006 elections. So, in that respect, I'm going to table these amendments. And in addition to pointing out that this group has worked really responsibly and I think we're going to get one quality law when it comes to amendments to the Electoral Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15482	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15483	Here, I'll make some remarks, or some remarks on the technical part of the law, the amendments and the additions of the law, and it consists of the following. I had previously received a bill on amendments to BiH's election law in the Bosniak, or Bosnian version, and then won in the Serbian version. In Article 3, there is one, in my opinion, technical error which may not be in this case (Article 3) Essentially change, but I'm afraid that there may not be any more and that some member will not essentially change from language to language. And that should be taken care of. In Article 3 in the Serbian version, it means a member of the amendment and supplement, he says: directly from the voters, the last word, i.e. the last sentence in Article 3, and in the Bosnian-Bosnian version: directly by the voters. This isn't going to have much effect on the essence of a member here, but maybe it can be because of translation to influence. I would further ask, that is, my proposal would be, since it is about amendments and additions to the laws that we have almost every session, so that it would be good for practical reasons to propose – not to waste unnecessary time, but to focus on the essence of the amendments and the addition of the law – that the proposer, when he is already doing these jobs, will be easier for him than to ask us for old law, that is to say, the current law puts into its proposal and the current law, that is, the member that changes 48 with the amendment and the addition of the law. If I made myself clear? So, an old member, and then he says by amending and supplementing the election law in this case, or some other law, that changes that too. Then we could immediately compare it, not looking for a law that is currently in force, but in the same material, as soon as we get it, we could look at the same place when we get it or travel it, etc., and not waiting for them to reach the office or the house to look for a law that is currently in force. I think you understand me. And that wouldn't be a big problem for the promoter, given that he already rules that matter, that technique, just to add those old members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15484	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15485	So, very briefly, for two reasons. So it's a first-reading debate. We're discussing principles and principles, and I don't belong to those people who, if they didn't say so, think they didn't say anything. So for me, the principles and principles on which these amendments and additions to the Election Law are acceptable and I will absolutely support them. But here's to taking the opportunity, and that was why I answered, to remind us all. So we all know when we set up a task force, an interresor group, etc. and we're all familiar with the assignments and we're all familiar with what this interresor group is doing. So, there's no interference that during their work we're going with initiatives, suggestions, suggestions, etc. according to these inter-resor groups. So if we had communication with interresor groups, before people came here with a concrete proposal, and that way we might be more rational and working. The second thing, this initiative, the initiative of this resolution group, which I hope you have here with you, because they are an integral part of practically in some way of the report, I think it is worth it to me today, in the context of a statement on this law in the first reading, to support these initiatives and thus to give the College a mandate to act on these initiatives in terms of initiatives towards entity parliaments and some other things, which I do not repeat here, the Šefik has reminded in what way, what these initiatives contain. And the last thing. I, therefore, welcome the efforts of this interresor group, invite them to make additional efforts and this remaining job that has remained, so these two laws that we are working on, that we have as soon as possible here in the House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15486	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15487	He gave up. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15488	Is there anyone else who might have applied for the hearing? If not, let me say a few.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15489	Mr. Živković, chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15490	Here, thank you. As a member of this working group, I would like to thank everyone who worked in the working group and in front of the Council of Ministers, in front of the CEC, and all those who submitted amendments to the working group at the time, so that, as well as from the representatives of NGOs, we have considered the same amendment. The reasons why we were given the mandate to discuss this law are clear, so they encouraged the Central Election Commission, which in the past period faced certain problems in its work, from political parties, citizens and NGOs, but we also had the need to pass the law because of the upcoming municipal elections. That's one of the reasons why we had to speed up the work on this bill. But also from the demands of NGOs and our committees here in Parliament, to create a certain balance in terms of gender balance. Of course, there is our obligation to the international community, which is our path to the EU, where we had to do part of the law on minorities and their representations in parliaments, and that was one of the reasons why we dealt with this issue. Of course, as you saw, in the proposal you got that I was, let's say, abstentioned about some suggestions. It concerns either the way or the ability to vote in the DKP networks. I think it was enough to give our people outside BiH the opportunity to vote in the post office. I believe that our DKP network is not sufficiently developed or able to make such a big deal possible. I think – so these are technical remarks and financial remarks, as you saw in the explanation at the end of this law – that there are 500 thousand marks needed, which I think is a great means for something that can be done in a simpler way. And if I don't talk about the possibility of abuse, I won't talk about it if I don't. So we from the SNSD will go in that direction to leave such an opportunity for these municipal elections as in the old law, and to consider in the next amendments and additions that we will surely have to have, this law. I am also talking about the changes and additions that concern the level of entities and the state of BiH because we have had some discussions on the weighting and number of mandates in the electoral units, where such ratios from the selected and those compensatory mandates are currently not considered to be well resolved, but we have given up these changes and additions, because this concerns higher levels of elections in BiH. And of course, one request that I think is very justified. I don't think we have enough legal arguments not to comply with that law, which is to agree on the name of the cities in BiH, the Central Election List with the Constitutional Court Decision of BiH, that is, with the data we have in the CEC, so that we will also go in this direction to do this harmonisation, because it represents, firstly, our obligation to the Constitutional Court and, secondly, to simplify the work of the Election Commission. That's it, thank you. If no more, Honorable Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15491	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Chairman, just one piece of information, actually two. Very short. What you have is the result of the consensus of those present at the Interresor Working Group sessions. It is true that some colleagues at some sessions were not, but the commission had a quorum, and all decision-makers had to enter the quorum. So, the representatives of entities and peoples. So the quorum implies one such qualified majority. I ask that what we have achieved as solutions, this is only one small part of our work – 17 sessions were – to preserve it and to fix what we can fix. That's one piece of information and a request. And secondly, the Law on conflict of interest and the Law on the financing of political parties are already on the table of this Interresor Working Group and, right to tell you, we are trying to finish as soon as possible, as soon as possible, to finish this job and thank all those who have assessed the work of this group as a responsible work but, behold, we have been rewarded with 240 marks each month for our gratitude. I think you know that, too, because that is the rules of this House. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15492	Thank you. If there are no reports, I'll conclude the hearing. Moving to the 8th point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of BiH, police officers, civil servants and other employees in peace support operations and other activities abroad On 27 November 2007, the Council of Ministers submitted a proposal for this law to the procedure. On 14 December 2007, the Constitutional Commission delivered its Opinion on constitutional law, and the Joint Defence and Security Commission is responsible. We received their opinion on the principles on 12 December 2007. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15494	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I only have one question for the promoter. In fact, Article 23 (2) has previously defined the possibility that the reserve composition, i.e. members of the Reserve Assembly, should only be sent to humanitarian missions. This amendment of the law provides the possibility for members of the Reserve to also be referred abroad to carry out other missions, which must not be just humanitarian character, however, under the condition of volunteering. When we held a debate earlier on about this law, the assessment was that training of reserve staff does not give sufficient capacity or is not enough... to provide maximum security for members when carrying out missions, and therefore the solution was the way it was in the law. 51 What motivated the promoter to change means that attitude, or what is the motive to give up and now enable, on the principle of volunteering, the members of the Reserve, to participate in missions that are not humanitarian?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15495	Thank you. Is there another discussion? If not, is there a need for an offerer to explain? Here you are, Deputy Minister of Honor Mrs. Pendeš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15496	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the Parliament, means one of the reasons, Mr. Novaković is right, since we worked together in the past term to pass and draft this law. Since we are now in preparation and have already implemented the law, when it comes to the Armed Forces in terms of the completeness of the professional composition, and now we are working on policies... related to the Reserve, and so it will not happen, that's where we predicted. So, we can't, regardless of our volunteering, when it comes to the members of the reserve team, be referred to a peace mission without training being done at the maximum level, as we did in training when it came to this mission of "Iraq Freedom" in Iraq. You know that even when it comes to "Iraq Freedom" we have counted on a professional composition but that these people have passed two training systems. So basic training and specialist training. And in that sense, so we went with this change, if this answer pleases you. So, it won't happen or it can happen that a member who's in the Reserve is assigned to a mission, and before that, he's not dressed enough to guarantee his safety and the security of the mission he's assigned to.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15497	Thank you. Is there more? Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15498	Well, you see, I didn't hear, though, motive, so that's why we're now, that's what I'm looking for, which is why we decided to expand the circle of people who can participate now. Is the problem in the numerous states of the Armed Forces? So, what's the problem with expanding the number of people? That's what I asked. It was an idea at the time, which is why I asked this, now to go to the end, so it was the idea that to a significant extent, the number of troops that BiH was sending on the mission would increase, and even the numbers of 1,200 and 1,500 and then 1,800 soldiers and so on. Is it possible – here to help – whether this is a motive and whether and after this is followed by an increase in the number of troops in missions, means in missions abroad. Of course, I'm not talking about charity. I'm talking about these other missions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15499	Thank you. I think an additional explanation might be necessary. Here you go. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15500	First of all, we all know that we have taken on certain obligations when it comes to membership only in the Partnership for Peace and future NATO membership, in terms of participation in a number of missions. Does this mean that we will participate in enhanced activities in the future, not only depends on the Ministry of Defence but depends on the state, because the state has taken over these obligations. You know that by defining the Reserve composition and defining that five thousand members must be in active reserve, or active reserve, we have determined that they are specialists. So these are people who have already been in the system, who have already been through certain trainings, so... that's one of the reasons. You know that even the current fullness of the Armed Forces is conceived in a way that most of these units have a capacity of 70%, 50% or 35%. So, those special positions in certain wars, whether it's also about pedestrian wars, whether it's from the Brigade of Tactical Support, where the tribes are all represented, are not fully foreseen by the completeness of professional persons, or professionals, but by the reserve composition that we already know are people who have certain experiences, which doesn't mean that we can fill this reserve composition with people who were once in the system, but that we will receive young people if the speciality for the future mission requires it. But it will still be voluntary, and yet it will be meant in the way the ministry proposes, that is, how they adopt the institutions they make, in the end, the final decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15501	Thank you. If there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. We move to the 9th point of the agenda, it's about: Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) On 25 October 2007, the Council of Ministers delivered the draft law procedure from this point. The Constitutional Commission is in charge of this law; it delivered its opinion on both the constitutional basis and the principles of the bill on 8 November. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Dear MP Beriz Belkić, pa Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15503	Well, perhaps Mr Ahmetović answered the same reason. So we are discussing principles, principles, first reading, and we have been warned by two or three associations, specifically from the BiH Employers' Association, the Trade Union Confederation, in the end, the Helsinki Committee that these solutions to this law are contrary to Article 11. The European Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms. Of course, we can't handle it today, but it would be good, so in the next phase, through the amendment action, in collaboration with the promoter, to remove certain things that are incorporated into the law, which in some ways travel through the evaluations of these organisations, travel the right to association, way of reporting, financial reports 53 etc. I think the RES is already in progress. But here, it is good to announce that we will have this situation in order to have to, in a second reading, so through the amendment phase, avoid this situation being the law contrary to the European Charter. Here, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15504	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15505	Well, here's the thing, so it's about the same story that since I am the chairman of the Commission on Human Rights and the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights has sent a letter and the chairman of the Constitutional Commission and the College of this House and I, in this regard, want to know this home that the Helsinki Committee in its letter has warned that these provisions amend and supplement laws violate the European Convention on Human Rights and, in this respect, here, therefore, if I may, on my behalf or possibly by calling the Commission on human rights to possibly submit amendments to these amendments to these laws to avoid what is stated in the letter. So we are obliged to respect the European Convention on Human Rights. BiH is a signator of the convention and in this regard, and I don't think there will be any problem in this home either to remove these shortcomings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15506	Thank you. Do any of the promoters have a need? You have a need, please. Deputy Justice Minister Mr. Srđan Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15507	Thank you very much. I'll be real quick. So, at the Council of Ministers' request several times, the law was held at a Council of Ministers meeting and a lot of cases or requests for the use of the BiH name awaited the Council of Ministers' decision. The Council of Ministers actually requested that some criteria be established for the use of the BiH name and returned to the justice ministry once or twice to extend those criteria. It's a little bit like an introduction. As far as the Helsinki Committee is concerned, is it therefore a ban on organisation, if you regulate the issue of the use of the name BiH? So I simply think that there is a basis for this critical consideration in the amendment phase but also means there is another possibility to see if everyone should use the name BiH. Here's a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15508	Thank you. If there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. 54 We move to the 10th item of the agenda: Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Features of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) Since 27 November 2007, this legislative proposal has been in parliamentary procedure and for this legislative proposal is the Constitutional Commission, which gave its opinion on the constitutional basis and on the principles of 14 December 2007. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. If there are no reports, I'll conclude the hearing. And we're going to the 11th item of the agenda, Ad. 11. Proposal for a law on denationalisation (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15511	The chairman, colleagues and colleagues, should not waste words to prove that or prove that this is a very important law, given matter and everything this law wants to resolve. The Constitutional Commission has supported the principles of this law and I am not going to enter into the essence of the debate on the law itself today. So this is the Law on Restitution in BiH, which for legal reasons is called the Law on Denationalisation, and I also share the opinion of those who think this is a more appropriate term for this law than the former and usual term that we used and used in BiH, which is called restitution. I stood up to say that the Constitutional Commission thinks this law should be discussed in public. And we will opt for a public debate if the law gets support today in the first reading. And I ask you that if you are at this opportunity when you, the chairman, propose solutions to this law that then this House also supports the Commission's initiative to hold a public debate and, subsequently, to have experience in the case of the Sport Act and some other law, the amendment phase, which is 15 days from the day of adoption of the law in the first reading, we determine that it will last until the work of the competent one is completed. Constitutional Commissions, which will be held immediately after a public hearing has been held. Because if it is 15 days from the day of adoption, so from today, then I don't know if we'll be able to carry out a quality public debate and at the same time meet the business obligation to invest the amendment within 15 days. I would ask you to take account of this, and of the solutions themselves, of course, I am neither the proponent nor the Constitutional Legal Commission. Here are the people of the Council of 55 ministers, I hope also from the Committee on Restitution, i.e. for denationalisation, and it is up to them to speak more specifically about solutions. And, mostly, the Constitutional Commission here supported, supported these solutions. There have been some disputes in the committee regarding jurisdiction. You'll probably hear that kind of discussion and it's fair to say it, but the Constitutional Commission, given the way it works and how it makes decisions, has made the kind of decision it's made. I think it is high time we passed this law in BiH and I think the principles on which this law is founded are principles that can and should be supported by this parliament. Of course, in the amendment phase, it is possible to do things the way we agree on them in BiH. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15512	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić, then Novaković, then Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15513	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats supports efforts to address the difficult issue that BiH must be burdening and most of its citizens and institutions in some way resolve and come up with an acceptable solution. And probably a lot of individuals and institutions have worked on this issue and there have been some solutions, but a little deeper analysis can be seen that this is not the best solution and that it is not acceptable for us as such. As counterpart Džaferović said, we did not support it on the Constitutional Commission, nor can we support it today. We think we should look for a better solution and I will not enter the very concrete solutions in the text of the law itself, but the fact that it is intruding into certain indifferences for which another mechanism is applied, we have said here, that anyone who thinks that there is a mechanism to carry out a certain transfer of jurisdiction, and of those of whom these powers are transferred to include them in such a thing, if there is already a desire and intention. Also, parallelism created and fully clear authority of entities based on the BiH Constitution and the entity's constitution on their competences in their own relations, new institutions created by this law and that would introduce certain parallelism and a slightly chaotic situation related to positions such as the individual in the moment, so municipalities, cities that are exclusive to jurisdiction and their positions now in the existing constitutional justice system, we think that, yes, it would not, even to some extent, be almost non-applicable solutions. We therefore believe that here we need to find ways and, that is, change the approach and come to a completely different text of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15514	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15515	When a legal code stands on the 11th page, then there are 21 pages in the explanation, then it probably gives us an incentive to think more seriously about the law. And so this law, counting on the front page, has 12 pages, and on those 12 pages, they tried to solve some of the historical injustices that were done in these areas. And I must say that I support that we resolve these injustices but we cannot solve one injustice by doing other injustices, by answering one issue by opening other questions, perhaps, and not much less serious than those we solve. I think in the procedure of this law we should get back to the beginning. To try to provide full consent to all those concerned by this law, and to both states and entities. Because the compensation of the property cannot be without the entity and it is not logical to enter into the procedure without that consent. Also, it is evident that there is – and there is no dilemma now whether or not there is – so it is evident that there is a transfer of competence in this area and, if so, then I don't see why we didn't go through the established procedure, so we came to get the law, so we came here to Parliament with a quality procedure and with some certainty much greater than this one today that we will get the law. So, I don't doubt the proposing's intentions to resolve this issue, but I have reservations that he's looked at enough of the quality of the law and the possibility of this law getting parliamentary support here in this House. That's why I'm not convinced any public debate will lead to the removal of what I've been talking about. Therefore, it is necessary to return the law to the beginning, to request and open discussions in all those who have to give up or in parliaments, meaning entities that also have to give up significant funds, in order to resolve this issue and, of course, it is not disputed that it should be resolved. Not to enter the opening and creation of new institutions that will take tens of millions for their work, and that we already own or exist institutions that can perform, if nothing else, then those technical issues, or what will take the most money. So, the SDS Club, for these but also other reasons, which are in the text itself, believes that these principles of this law are unacceptable and that this law does not have a constitutional basis.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15516	Thank you. The next is for discussion, dear Ambassador Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15517	Thank you, Mr. President. I think something different from colleagues Novaković and Kalabić. Of course, it's their right to link this to the transfer of jurisdiction. I think that every further postponement of this, we had this in Parliament four years ago and an attempt by the Council of Ministers, so four years passed, so now it has to be restored, four years ago, only this country in all of Southeast Europe and in post-transition processes means there is no strength or capacity to correct the injustices that are followed by certain historical and other circumstances done, not only in BiH but in the whole world. And until this country has the strength to pass one law, it cannot speak of its democratic face and content. 57 This is our party's position. So, and for this reason, regardless of the series of open questions that contain this text of the bill that came to us from the Council of Ministers, I think that the fact that it is written on either page 12 or itself does not have to mean that it is not well written and that we better have a longer explanation and see here a comparative analysis and experience of others, conventions and obligations of the international and the ways in which it was done. I think we owe it to all the institutions, the organizations, the public, to organise a public debate. Let it be heard what anyone in this country represents when this is an important and difficult and painful issue on the agenda. What's the outcome? Of course, each one takes responsibility in this regard. But now, after the efforts made and by the Council of Ministers and previous work and consultation, return everything to the beginning? I don't think it's right, I think we can let this go further in the process, and then the amendment, through a public debate, let's all say and try like some other legal solutions to compromise. Of course, the laws in this country, especially this character and demand, the subject and the negotiations and agreements and compromises and understanding and mutual respect and respect, but the fact that it is said in the beginning that this is not right, and that it should be returned to some starting stage, I think it is not necessary for this home or encouraging, and therefore we will give support to this first reading, and of course our concrete suggestions, suggestions both through public debate and through repairs in the amendment phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15518	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jukić, then Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15519	Mr. President, BiH is a country in transition that has made some positive shifts, but in a region where at least or nothing has been done, it is exactly the area of restitution. Privatisation is only partly done, we never mentioned the nastration as a question we want to address in the context of our total transition, our transition path. I think the order of moves should be something different. Therefore, that the restitution should have preceded privatisation, as no small privatisation problems stemmed from the unresolved restitution. Unfortunately, here we have been talking for years about restitution or denationalisation because when it was done, it was said that it was nationalisation, so it makes sense to speak and denationalization. We haven't done anything, even though we've talked about it a few times before. Or we did so much to see that it was just a big problem, which we knew. However, this is no less of a problem in us neighbouring countries that had almost the same or the same part of history when it happened. I mean the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Serbia, Macedonia, I hope, now and Montenegro have done something down there. About other countries that have been successful this time of transition, this has already been done, of course, with a lot of problems and difficulties, but all countries have done so, BiH is at the beginning. I think it's time for us to talk about this document, but after we all say it's necessary for BiH, and right away, it was necessary yesterday, not today. 58 Of course, when I hear Mr. Kalabić and Mr. Novaković, I am not too optimistic in the successful conclusion of this phase that we will solve it. However, I believe that what has been done on the commission and the decision to go to this law in public debate that it is good and useful and that we will hear much at the public hearing. I expect both arguments and quality discussions and suggestions for some solutions that may not even be covered here or are undertreated in this law which – as noted, I do not want to repeat – is very short. However, the shortness of text or text length does not mean that something is proportional to that length or shortness in its quality. I really wouldn't be longer than to say in the end that the HDZ BiH Club thinks this is one of the priority and important issues and we will make our contribution to the solution, whether it will be with some changes and additions, probably. However, I also think that this is done, this proposal is done after, I think, two years of work by an inter-resort, mixed working group, which has come up with a legal project like this, and it's probably enough to say that this isn't so unquality and the fact that someone's been working on it for years, I think it's giving both weight and the quality of this material. So, we support discussing this, of course being constructive in terms of proposing and better and supplementing existing... solutions and, of course, after a public debate, I expect that we also get this law, which I am confident will be a significant way for BiH to complete the transition process.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15520	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15521	So I belong to those who think it's high time for this law to be passed because for too long,... for too long, various committees, various groups are working on its preparation, too, too long, the expectations of people who have been damaged over a long period of time to respect their rights, to return their seized property to them. And I'd like to sort of step up with my colleagues, or rephrase those who think this isn't... the jurisdiction of the state. I think it is, that this question falls within the realm of human rights above all, and that is the obligation of the state, and not of the entity, and we must... at the state level solve this matter if we want to solve it in an adequate way. We will organise, as a commission, a public debate and... determine what people expect, what citizens expect, and expect justice to be satisfied. I think we should respect that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15522	Thank you. It's a replica first. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15523	Well, you see, I want to replicate the attitude of some colleagues here that... they belong to those who think it's high time to get rid of this! Look, I, no matter how we discuss it, belong to 59 people who also think it's time to get rid of this. So the wrong thing to do here is to set up a composition, like someone is to get rid of it, and someone's not to get rid of it because it's got comments on this. And let me remind you, too, when it was the Law on Restitution in the debate, the SDS Club supported the law at the time, unlike some parties that today did not support, and today they say it is high time for this issue to be resolved. At the time, the Party for BiH did not support the adoption of the Restitution Act. So, but I still think it's time for this law to be passed, that it should be passed, but in a way that is only possible, so in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15524	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15525	Well very briefly, given that he spoke about human rights, and it is undeniable that they are part of this problem, but I would remind that the compensation will be in money, it will not be in other forms in which we can solve it, and whenever it comes to money and everything that follows, I think it is a huge financial amount, and then it is a very difficult issue. How do you solve that? So there's no dispute here that needs to be solved, I haven't, I haven't seen it, but I think it's a very, very, very difficult question that stands before us about the way... of solving. I belong to a category that has an empty form and is waiting to file a request. So I'm personally interested in... this question but about the mechanisms and about it and I don't think anyone's arguing that all these categories should mean their right in some way. But it's connected to important issues of economic nature, financial nature, the rights of those who at this point don't know that their rights that they think will be compromised and, I don't know, that all challenge this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15526	Hold on, please, hold on, hold on. Dear Ambassador Huskić had a replica of these two exhibitions. Right? And you had on his, so we'll... give him a head start. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15527	So look, is it gonna be hard or not? It's going to be just as hard, it's going to be equal to the amount no matter who pays it, state or entity. So we won't cut the amount of funds needed if it's paid by the entities. That's one thing. The other thing, it might not have anything to do with this. But there is, in some ways, that a very long period... of time we get from the Council of Ministers of Law which is the constitutional basis of Article IV 4. The constitution, and I think it's supposed to stand here on the 2nd, and that's about human rights. So there's a constitutional basis to pass this law at the state level.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15528	Thank you. 60 Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15529	It is only short, therefore, for some discussions, whether to say that... a lot of time can be spent to really present a lot of arguments that this law has a constitutional basis, to be passed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and I will not spend words on it. Let the Constitution be taken, let the law be taken, let it be read. So that's one thing. It's another thing. Nevertheless, in the process of passing laws by the Council of Ministers, who reads the argument, they will see that the Commission and all those who have prepared the law have been consulted and agreed by the entities to go into the process. There is one thing that one institution within Republika Srpska entity disagrees on, and this commission, it is called, this issue is explained there. Whoever reads it will see that thing. And that's not a problem either, but I see what I'm seeing and I'm standing up to ask you today, so the law, if things go this way, won't get support in first reading at the House of Representatives. I say I belong to the order of those, and it looks like we're all here, but we just disagree on how to get there, that it's high time we passed this law and that BiH should finally end this thing. I beg you, then, if the law will fall, then there will be no support, and we heard today where that support might not come from, and it is, of course, a condition that we have the law, that we leave for a while. Consult within political parties, consider it. Look, we have the Council of Ministers in this session that proposed this law unanimously, no problem at the Council of Ministers. We now have opposing views here in Parliament. Give me some consultation, don't, it's the easiest thing to do is to break this law. If we take him down, I agree with my colleague Raguž, probably we'll be back in four years -- he's not here, is he -- in four years we'll be discussing the same thing, and by then we won't do anything. Let's give him a chance, then. Here you are, as chairman, please, so don't put, simply, let us decide, to postpone, to carry out these consultations, to stand here in the procedure. It's better than taking him down. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15530	Of course, this is a prejudge to vote. Easy, we're not at that stage yet, we're not at that stage yet, the discussion is opening. Is there anyone else having a problem with the replica, or are we going to go? So there are reported in this order: Bešlagić, Lozančić, Ajanović, Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15531	Well, dear colleagues, I must say that the matter of procedure is here primarily with delegates from the RS and I respect it. They demand that the law be respected, and that means that there are entity powers to transfer certain things to state level. That's it, that's it, and I respect that. But I thought this was what I was looking at to see the side of funding, the way it would be denationalized. Then after these discussions that were held;... page 19 reads as follows: "The applications of the Slovenian Minister of Finance from 8 June 2006 on Articles 12, 24 and 26, 43, 61 46, 49, 50, 54, 58, 59 were agreed at meetings from 28 June, 16 October and 9 November 2006, as proposed, except for the remarks on Article 58." Gentlemen, this is an agreement between entity governments for this project, so I would ask you from that point of view, if there is this chance that Mr Džaferović was talking about, please give a little bit of everyone agree that this was definitely accepted. If accepted, there is no reason not to enter the stage of making amendments and objections. I think that would be correct and so should work so that our laws in this House can get a passing grade. I think there's the point that it's in fact consistent. Now, you, now you have to confirm to me, if it's settled, then there's no reason why this law doesn't go to the polls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15532	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15533	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests, here I am also going to go with this already prescribed item of classification I belong to the category of those, so I will now say which category I belong to: those who are glad that one of the most important issues, outstanding issues in this country, have finally been found here on the benches. I will not talk about the solutions offered in this first stage in the first reading, and I believe that this law will receive a passage in the first reading, and I believe that through public debate and through the possibility of amendment action and through the possibility of including the widest circle of interested and citizens, and as individuals and groups and organisations, etc., we will come up with a solution that will indeed be on the trail of correcting a decades-old, so to say, injustices towards a large number of citizens of this country and a number of institutions of this country. We are, unfortunately, very often inclined to call on our citizens on various occasions as much as we need it! Here, probably, is also waiting for a group of citizens who expect the correction of another injustice, so it's on the agenda today. Today we are obviously inspired to try to correct the decades of injustices committed against the citizens of this country in this country. Fortunately, this institution where we are sitting today is not guilty of this injustice, but it has not committed it, among other things, we have taken the obligation to correct a part of the injustices that were committed in some earlier periods. I have to say that I don't want to believe that there's any man here, one person, one individual, who might be against correcting the injustice that once was committed to someone. In our people, there's a very short saying: "I've been kidnapped." And I'm in favor of, God Bog, never being classified in the category of those who might be brought into a relationship with such a single saying and who might be imputed to participate, by doing or by inacting, in such an arrangement. So let me invite all of you and all of us like this... to try to make every effort to try to correct these mistakes, these injustices that some before us have done, too, by calling on the name of the people. 62 I am for us, indeed, in the name of the people and for the people, for the citizens of this country... to try to correct these mistakes. I don't believe that by rejecting this solution, with any excuse, we will calm our own or anyone else's conscience. If we give it a chance through a public debate, I think we have a chance to come to a solution. And here I am, and I'm going to say one more thing, in the category of those who, in the entity parliament, debated the same matter, so just a little bit more, and we're going to bring, here's 10 years and I and many citizens of this country are waiting to correct that injustice. And I'll say something. Believe me, none of our personal interests, fortunately or unfortunately, have been taken from me and my family... even during that period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15534	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ajanović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15535	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, in this same room, 17 years ago, there was a debate about the Restitution Act, which was then proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and so on. and I think it was the closest solution to making a certain restitution in BiH at the time. Unfortunately, I am a skeptic in this regard that she will be executed, and I am particularly skeptical that she will be just. No restitution is just because no one is satisfied with the time of the beginning or the end of the restitution. If we go, and mostly people think that the restitution should take place since 1946, when the Partisans came to power and beyond, I think that they will, that there will be a lot of those who will be and will be wronged to whom a certain takeover of property has been done before, so here, fortunately or unfortunately, and my family has been taken away a lot. However, man must live in reality. I think the restitution needs to be carried out at least for what we can bring consent to and get it off the agenda. Because we need to understand that even today many people are being taken away from an unjust country, certain plans are being made to build cities, to build these, and then crumbs are being given to the owner of... from whom the land has been taken away, and it is thought that compensation has been made. Restitution has to end, and I think it needs to be expanded all the way to today, that everything that's from people, again, to understand, no, you don't need to go far in the past, because it's very difficult. It would be a great delusion, but in any case, that restitution must be carried out, because don't forget that thousands and thousands of acres of land... have been taken away from people to create accumulating dams, that people from certain areas have been completely evicted without adequate compensation or any compensation! And that's why it would be good if we had made a restitution in 1991 when it was proposed, because now these people would be compensated by shares in the companies that have been sold, and I say robbed again by certain authorities, among which I choose myself, because I am... in politics for a long time, and they believe that they have given Bogo and that the people, in the name of the people, have done nothing wrong. Restitution needs to be done as soon as possible so that we can do as little harm as possible to the people we do today. And I'm about to go into public debate. That's what I said on the Constitutional Commission and not looking, not looking at whether there are legal pins, whether it should be executed, should not be executed. I think the law deserves it because it is more than 18 or 19 years at a public hearing in BiH and has not yet come to this step until the end of the restitution. 63 Someone mentioned Croatia here. I had a good friend and professor where he was married, he was Bošnjak, but he was married to an Austrijanka who... certainly received Croatian citizenship because she lived her family before World War II in Slavonia. And she told me one truth, and she said, "Tito took away me elegantly, Tuđman ended it all with me." The restitution is not just as you bring it, especially the restitution financially, and especially if a long period of return is put on, because, after all, inflation eats everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15536	Thank you. The next honourable MP, Križanović, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15537	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to start by saying that I fully agree with those colleagues and colleagues who say that...very and inadmissible is late with denationalisation in BiH. I remind you that the SDP, the SDP Club, in this House four years ago gave a concrete proposal for a restitution law. I, even if I didn't, wouldn't listen to you, colleagues, what you said.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15538	Please listen to each other. We'll take a break by three hours to finish this topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15539	Today there were two very important reasons: it is impossible to make quality privatisation before denationalization. If a man were underprivileged, he might say that he is deliberately making it difficult to denationalize to make bad privatisation. We have, on several occasions, raised the question of representation to give us the answer: How many nationalised assets have been returned so far? Who? In what form and by what basis? And we all know there's some quiet restitution to do that. So these are all reasons why I'm not talking about the basic reason for human rights, that it can't be taken away from people's property.- I'm sorry. It can't be in this system. It could've been in that one, because that's the system. What are we doing here? He was the kind of system that worked 45 years and wasn't the only one in the world. And now we are determined for this, and we say, "Let's bring back to the people what has been taken away." However, you see, after four years and some commission's work, we're getting a proposal today that, I want to say that progress, that it's technically quite well set up, but we say, now, after today's debate, we're going to open a public debate. I ask myself: Why is the public debate not made and organised by the legislators of this law? We will be in a situation likely because justice will be hurt. So, once we have wronged, that now that we try to correct that injustice, I believe we will do to others! That we have included in this draft, or bill, a lot of the entities involved. That there will be 64 considerable problems with compensation assessments and the rich costs of the process itself. There may also be certain abuses, and that is what I want to say briefly on what our remarks on this bill will be based on. So I say, once again, it would have been good if the public debate had taken place before, that we would not be in a position to have 60 or 70 amendments after the public debate on the 59th articles of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15540	Thank you. We still have a registered honourable representative, Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15541	I thank you, Chairman. Here we are today as MPs and as a body, meaning as the most legislative body in BiH, we have a really great challenge to open up space to edit how fair this process is. We will try in the best possible way to avoid these injustices. But I want to say here what others didn't mention, that I'm not wasting my time, is that in the environment we are, therefore, correcting the injustices of a country's regulation in the area of six new states. Five other states have resolved the regulation, only BiH has no power to do so and is about the same starting date: 45 years in all the other five countries that did so. It is indeed a major challenge, both for us individually and as a body of this and for the BiH government, to finally put an end to a very, very difficult issue. The injustice is also with the old foreign savings. The injustice is huge for people in particular – not those who walk through transparency that have taken some foreign exchanges in BiH, etc. For the people who indeed came from my region, there are a great number of them, thousands who have worked, who have left bread, and today they cannot pay for it. We've passed a regulation and we're trying to make the solution even better. The injustice will be, we cannot avoid the problem of thinking that we have solved injustice or reduced injustice. Money? As long as it is necessary or not necessary, it will have to resolve BiH authorities. No one's entity is his entity. It is an entity of BiH citizens and BiH authorities, and they will have to be provided in the way the law provides. Since I was chairman of the Committee in the Federation Parliament in the last term, in which it was the responsibility and privatisation and denationalisation, the process of particularly large privatisation companies has indeed been stalled, given the lack of valid land ownership documentation. "AgroComerc" as a giant in the former Yugoslavia has the biggest problem in determining property ownership exactly what the process is not over and the real owners do not know! Let me get this straight. I think that this is indeed a great challenge for us and a great responsibility and that we need to get the strength to open up the space... to absorb this topic and finally make a decision on these issues for the interests of BiH and... the interests of the citizens and our perspective of Europe as we all talk about where we are. And finally, we have a chance that someone else won't impose on us and say if you have to, you have to do this in March. This is our obligation, and I think that we should take advantage of 65 responsibilities and pass this law with respect to these different thoughts of colleagues who represent certain opposing thoughts.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15542	Thank you. Since we don't have any more reports, I'm closing the debate. I'm taking a break until three o'clock for lunch. We'll be back in three hours. [[PAUZA]] ...the agenda of Ad. 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Safety Act on the Roads of BiH (first reading) – Proposer: Transport and Communications Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15546	I still think there's a need. First, I hope all MPs have analyzed and read, at the very least, the opinion of the appropriate committee. Since the commission decides on principles, I really don't see what principle is not satisfied that this law is on the agenda. Because if you look at the argument here, you're not talking about any indiscipline but about the Commission's views, which is why she doesn't think this law should be considered, noting that it's not yet time, that it's going to create problems throughout this process. I'm sorry. So, no matter what I was on this committee, when she decided, MPs, or members of the commission, wanted to make that decision. That's their thing, but once again I stress that there is really no principle of reason why any principle is not satisfied when it comes to this bill. Secondly, you know that on several occasions there have been proposals to amend the VAT Act and you also know well that at the very... initial phase of adoption of this law there have been different approaches to whether it will be a unique rate or certain things will be isolated, some with zero, some with a lower rate, etc., etc. ...the law is an international community that has been a great help to pass this law, and it is thought that for technical reasons it is not good for us to enter into this business that was completely new with a differentiated rate, but it is good for it to be unique. And so it came to pass that this rate is unique, believing that it takes a certain time for the law to apply, to overcome all these techniques and procedures, and with the adoption of the original version of the law, you know well that it was concluded that BiH and entities would create the social measures programmes that would be protected... the most endangered layer of society... which was thought to be affected by this VAT rate. As you know, the adoption of these measures has not yet taken place. We constantly, here, and the commission, which I have been invited to, and she says should take these measures but, obviously, if we wait for these measures, that these measures will not come, at least for as long as this law is in force, as long as this law is in force. The fact is, too,... here it shows for the second year that there is an surplus in the budget achieved through VAT. So, even here, the entity government didn't think it was necessary to direct that surplus to solve really those cases that can be called, which can be called social cases. That is why it is here and the proposal to go with a zero rate, in this case foods, basic provisions of life and part of agricultural goods that are in direct function of the production of basic life products. Should it remind you that in every city in BiH, and especially in larger cities, we are witnessing daily, everyday realities that people roll around in containers and thus seek ways to eat. On the other hand, there are really no technical reasons why they could not enter the differentiated VAT rate now. And, on the third hand, what is not insignificant: in this whole story, we have experiences and countries in the environment, we have experiences and European countries that have a differentiated VAT rate, noting that only a few countries have a unique rate. So there's really no more valid justification for why we wouldn't go into this business. I believe that by accepting this proposal, as already this year, we would have created some real assumptions to improve the social status of the most endangered. Just keep in mind the fact that the oil has been collected in the last few months: 17%. Now, by removing that rate, it would be a significant cheaping. And it's not just about oil, it's about... other provisions of life. Thank you. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15547	Thank you. No, no, just wait a minute, since Deputy Finance Minister Mr. Kasumović asked for the first call. He's right about the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15548	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished MPs, so this matter you treat in this agenda point is very complex and intruding in many areas. Accordingly, I am obliged to inform you of the following. The Council of Ministers, at the pre-lated session, just related to the latest presentation of the esteemed representative Dokić, has decided to form an Interresor Group that will work on the issue. So, the group will consist of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the Ministry of Foreign Trade, members of the European Commission and the Directorate for Direct Taxation. It's these segments... of our Council of Ministers or our entire structures that can treat this matter. You know without the consent of the indirect management can't do this. It is true that for a long time many MPs and clubs have been trying to change this VAT rate, etc., etc. I will suggest to you what is only according to the Council of Ministers, so I am not speaking on my own behalf, but here is the Council of Ministers made such a decision, it is only realistic that you, if you will, or yours, if I do not cheat on the two committees, follow this Committee on Budgets and this Mr Mehmedović, who runs the commission, can not remember exactly what his name is, and that you also join it and that with a studio analysis we get to whether we need more rates, less rates, etc., etc. That would be my suggestion to adopt it as a conclusion. And it's very important: it's time for this to be analysed on February 15th. So it is in the decision and I think it is only correct and concrete how we can get to that best: whether we should go differentiated, etc., etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15549	Thank you. Namely, this is our Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, it is the honourable MP Mehmedović, one of the leaders, but he does not lead the commission. In any case, we have the following reports: the honourable Members of Bahtić, Pa Novaković, and Jovičić. Now suddenly a replica? Now! All right, Reverend Dokić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15550	Well, you know the famous Churchill's thought that he said a long time ago, "If you don't want to do something, then form a committee to consider it." I am afraid that this proposal by the Council of Ministers is also in this context to delay this and do nothing about it. I could support the suggestion that here is the case for this law a certain interresor group, which would consider the technical aspects of implementation and possibly some other changes that would require 68 if there was a will...that this law would go further in the procedure. So this job can be done with this bill and it can be parallel and beneficial for everyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15551	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15552	... for finance and the budget did not accept the proposal for the following reasons, although we all know that the gatherings – pensioners, poverty, basic life supplies – all of this stands. However, this method and in talks with representatives of financial international institutions, the IMF and the World Bank, countries in transition should not go for about three years what I think is okay. No problem if we agree otherwise. However, our country has not yet been arranged. It only goes in favor of smugglers and merchants. Croatia introduced it into the environment, so it lost 500 million marks. So the state didn't get anything, they only got there, they got traders. I am in favour of doing a detailed analysis to see how much it participates in the income of oil, sugar, salt, flour, and basics, so if that's 100, 200, 300 million, no problem, let's introduce it. That's why we've suggested, as the commission has prevailed, that they go to do a social programme, that extra income by entities and cantons, to make social maps, and that those who need... help, need help, that they get it. Not me and whoever owns the company and the company and who's the poor. I'd say, I think... yes, but you know before the elections they always show up like this. It was both SDP and SDS, a fellow Ivanić, an MP now had, participated in the elections... and I think it would have been pre-election, too, although I am for the poor and...to get, however, I don't think there is a basis at this point. We still have to take care of macroeconomic stability in the country. We must not question the non-financing of BiH institutions. We know that this 17% project has proved to be one of the most successful this year, a record income of five... billions and two hundredths. If the maltene budgets were all adopted, planned and state-owned, not yet adopted, so we're already on the basis of this data from the administration... I think there's a lot of, a lot of ground and it's going in this direction, and it doesn't have to be done today, go in the strawberries, go right into something to get into some risk, and a detailed analysis of how much it costs the state, if that's a couple of hundred million marks, okay. Let's go right now, and we better go, rather than go there over the rebalances going into consumption. That's it, thank you. So I'm staying at the stand to support the commission's position.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15553	Thank you. What? Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15554	If Bahtić had said when we passed this law, then I know it was said: Let's adopt 17% and then we will follow in a year and bring measures! It's been a year, we've proposed, no difference in elections and no elections, but the essence of the whole problem isn't in these 17%. The bottom line is that this is said to be unacceptable because the management board, i.e. the Management Board 69 Direct Taxation Administration, did not give consent. Stop it, Mr. Bahtić! All the suggestions that were here, says you don't have the consent. On the other hand, we are the only person in the world to whom the Management Board for indirect taxation creates a financial policy. And that's supposed to be the Council of Ministers, and we're passing laws, and the Department of Direct Taxation to just enforce those laws. We need to have another debate, a debate about the place and the role of the Direct Taxation Authority! And where is this House? Come on, let's not play with these things, let's look into the truth once! I can't anymore, I'm just frustrated when... The indirect taxation administration did not agree with Parliament's decision. Well, we've made a decision here, we've been defeated by that administration, because we've made a unanimous decision to go two feet or three feet of indirect taxation, but the administration has made a decision that it can't. Come on, let's face it, we're not capable of running and creating a policy of financial where, first of all, we need to run the Council of Ministers, then with our laws to do so. I argue that we as Parliament have the right to make a decision on a multi-stage rate, if we agree, and not that justice has not been agreed by the Directorate for indirect taxation. It is an organ that is far below this parliament and dictates and creates financial policy. Shame!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15555	Dear Ambassador Bahtić, the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15556	As for the Taxation Administration, however, we need to work on something, but I disagree with my colleague Selim Bešlagić that we can go. I understand the opposition, it's in their interest, as far as I'm concerned, and the one before their proposal to collect as little revenue as possible to create poverty, even greater poverty. We have a colleague, Selime, an example of when he was a sales tax. Your president of the Federation has introduced that the billing at the consumption site is your child of a fictitious company where a billion marks of the state have been lost. Thanks to you and your moves. We're taking care of the state and we're leading and we're not taking any risks without a detailed analysis. Say it wasn't Behmen who introduced that tax...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15557	Please don't let us argue that way. Everyone will get a word and say what they think. If there's no more replicas, now I'd like to give my word to whoever signed up. Dear Ambassador Novaković, Jovičić and Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15558	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which said in one position that it believes that the draft law should also be given the opinion of the Governing Board of BiH's Direct Taxation Board. The board of directors, at least I didn't get the opinion of the Management Board under this law, and I have to say that it was a practice before, even if the Management Board took the proposals that came from here seriously, so he wrote some letters and sent them to Parliament. Here, let's say, in 6.6.2006, on the proposal for a law that the SDS Club referred to then they cited some reasons 70 that the Administration does not support, so among other things, I will read one that is very interesting, and it says: that the introduction of zero rates would most jeopardise the socially endangered layers of the population because the loss of public income would make it impossible to strengthen the social protection programme. Let me remind you: when we passed this law, one of the conclusions in adopting the law was that in some period there, I can no longer remember whether there were 90 days or how many, they made programmes at the level of entities, and also at the levels of the BiH state, they created social protection programmes that should mitigate the negative effects of introducing one VAT rate, among other things, and on these products that are in this bill, but also on some that appeared during this long period in the legal procedure. Unfortunately, no government has ever taken this problem seriously, and of course many political parties and individuals have used this to propose a series of laws, not for political reasons, but for the intention to reduce the negative effects. It would have been good if the board had written today, even like this! Probably, people can't write it like this because they see for themselves that this doesn't make sense. That's what they wrote, because it's been a year and a half since then, and I guess someone for that year and a half would have removed these causes or these reasons why the law can't be supported. It would be good if the Council of Ministers, as said by the Deputy Minister, had written to this Parliament with fully clearly defined deadlines when this Interresor Group would finish its work, so at least today we would know some of it. To invite us today to delegate some people to an Interresor group, to which no one has invited us and which has already been formed, I don't think it makes sense and that it is not correct to this Parliament. If someone wanted to form an interresor group with representatives of Parliament, they would then make that decision, so would we, and then they would delegate someone to it. And like this today, it's not, to say the least, correct. As far as this law is concerned, therefore, we are as one of the former proposings of similar legal solutions on the line to support Mr Dokić's proposal, in particular, I say, that we have not received any serious paper, so from those who should have delivered it to which it would have been doubted, we doubted this proposal. When it comes to this proposal Bešlagić spoke of, I must say that here I have an agreement on jurisdiction in the area of indirect taxation signed by the Federation of BiH and RS. And that agreement defined the role of the indirect taxation administration in the way it operates today. Of course, this does not mean that some other agreement between these two entities cannot change the role and that such an initiative cannot be launched. But what I'm saying is that it's not possible for us to do it ourselves, so without this procedure under which this agreement was passed. And finally again, therefore, since we support the introduction of a zero rate, we will not support the Commission's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15559	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15560	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this is a proposal on which this parliament should not be said to survive or fall, because it is not possible, but to show what we and what measures are to put red tape aside. Here, we're on that team to keep this people alive. There were some other points of the agenda when I mentioned it, but here everything is a problem with all the legal projects and proposals, regardless of who they come from, because we don't have an estimate of the relevant institutions what's going to happen well and what's wrong. What good is it for this country if we release these items and they're zero? And what better way to make a luxury tax? Can we talk about luxury? Does anyone here know what a luxury is? Do we look where we live and turn where our fellow citizens live, what they have, are we able to tax them? I have also spoken several times about some other projects: here all institutions, agencies, administrative organisations are being placed above this parliament. So I ask what our strength and role is, what can we do, and tonight you'll see on every television log of the local, private, state: Those thieves in Parliament don't let the poor survive! What are we gonna do? That's why I'm asking the Council of Ministers, no inter-resor of these groups, let's go out with the measures that this people will survive! What can we do to help this people, will they go beyond this rate of zero, will they go through indirect taxation, will they go through another project? Let this people, I repeat people – so I really can't believe it, sometimes I get the impression that only I contact the people and that they only call me or only have my cell phone number – so they only call me! He's calling. I'm asking you as colleagues. Does any of these citizens call you and say, "What are you people doing there?" I'm asking you to take this seriously and I'll only mention one more, so you laugh all you want. Spring is coming, the gatherings are new going, waiting for inter-resor groups will not have a chance to hunt down even the containers, but it is a matter of where we will hold the session of Parliament! Are we going to wait for social rebellion, strikes, revolutions, I don't know, every call. Don't, please, let's have a thematic session and all the agencies, institutions that can help this poor woman and the misery to survive, to bring them here and to the front row to sit, here are the honored guests. But to say what's the way out of this situation that's happening to us now! Let go of the government's social programs. What social program? My mother-in-law never got a stamp, and she's got 98 pension marks, what kind of... social program, doesn't know it exists. Her son-in-law, he can't fight either, has a son-in-law who can't fight for his mother-in-law, who has 98 marks! Come on, please, don't caricate, I'm serious about this. Thematically we need a session of all the institutions headed by the Council of Ministers, the Agency and this Parliament sitting down and saying what is the way out for this poor woman to survive, and not that there are political points here that one party, one individual in charge, is concerned about the interests of this people, and no one says so that I can see your gentlemen, a fleet here in front of Parliament, to see! It's a luxury. If it's a luxury, let's go 35 percent, 35 percent tax, and I don't know what else. But there's got to be a way out, people. I'm just fighting to find a way out and, of course, I don't know the Deputy Finance Minister who works well there, so he says, on the bridge, we've lost that much, we get so much on the pot. And then, we see that the turkey is better. Come on, people, let's know, so we really are so much put ourselves in a stalemate position that we can't help our citizens, where we swear to help them. Who's he gonna expect help from? I can't pay my salary – I can help one individual, maybe – but I can't give it to everyone. This parliament is obliged to tear away from the state what the state has taken from it and return to those people. But in what way? Well, I'm no expert on that, and here, gentlemen, at the Council of Ministers and these various administrations and agencies. Thank you very much. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15561	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15562	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to replicate to Mr. Jovičić that social policy is in the jurisdiction of the entity, not at the state level. So this story of his doesn't stand, at least in this place. Secondly, the introduction of VAT is one of the Council of Ministers' most serious projects, and I think they have taken very seriously the introduction of VAT as a single project at the state level. So in this way, I can now be free, let me say, unserious ways to change such a serious project, I think, at the very least, unserious. Why do I say that? It does not stand out, meaning that the introduction of a zero VAT rate would significantly facilitate the life of the most vulnerable category of the population for the reason that this most endangered category of the population would have the least benefit from this zero rate. We'd have bakers, we'd have millers, we'd have oil producers, etc., which is numbered here, but pensioners and those unemployed would certainly pay the same price of these products as that price today. Of course, I understand that they want to score some political points in this wave of gatherings, artificial gatherings, for example, because, for example, a liter of oil in Sarajevo was 5 or 7 KM, and in eastern Sarajevo 2.5. Somebody explain to me if it can happen on the market, which is about a few miles from each other. Therefore, this artificial crisis is caused by certain lobbies that have significant supplies of these goods and should be sold. Therefore, if this is today the first reading, or statement of the principles of this law, I do not think that the principles could be supported. Why? Why are only these eight items in Article 1 numbered? Why isn't there, say, school supplies and books for compulsory schooling, such as primary education? If the state makes people go to school, or makes them send children to school, then it is necessary to provide them with books and accessories, at least the most necessary! And why wouldn't such a category of goods be found here? And there was, like, wheat flour, and it was just a certain guy. Why this guy? Or, I don't know, I don't keep counting, so there's no newspaper, no press, etc.? For this reason, he believes that, yes, it cannot be approached in this way by introducing a zero rate, regardless of all these aspects that my predecessors spoke of. And for a formal reason, I will repeat only the discussion of an esteemed colleague of the promoter when it was on the agenda of the Customs Policy Act, i.e. excise duties, tariffs etc. We have our own Council of Ministers to trust. Which is why now a group of MPs should appear as a proposing of certain legal solutions, this same discussion could be applied right now. Because this is a very serious thing, and I don't think it can be accessed in this way with such serious projects. Thank you very much. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15563	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15564	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here is a year in this House we have in a certain way an attempt to make the social picture that is in BiH, especially lately and the time that is coming before us, is greatly disrupted, there are growing social differences in those who have and those who have less and less – are growing. In the end, our society strives to measure the individual value of each of us. However, we as a body, the legislative body of the highest state, are obliged to follow this situation and offer solutions... that will ease this decomposition and those who are unable to provide themselves with a normal life and their own, even those who work are not in a position to provide that minimal basket, that we do not have a solution. It seems to me that today's attempt is also a clear indication of the inability of this parliament to force those we have chosen in the executive power to offer solutions to the situation that is on the scene today. That the offers mean the social programmes that we said we would do by introducing a single rate – they retain the unique rates – that these social programmes will be done by all levels of government. Unfortunately, I don't really see these social programs, I see the gatherings, I don't see a solution for people who can't get on the basis of their work and those who are retired and those who are particularly out of work, that they can't, that there's no answer and there's no solution to their questions. And then we have normal these attempts. How political they are, how much more for the public than they are for the interests of the state and for the interest of a stable policy in BiH, economic policy, then we will have many more of these issues! I think it is finally time for our Council of Ministers, which we will receive soon, and a new-old meeting, to definitely give us deadlines and tasks to offer these social programmes to our citizens in the area of all BiH. I mentioned it, today here, and I'll bring it up another time, the story of the gathering and the relative gathering, etc. Elderly people who suffer from high pressure: before a month of 7 marks there was some kind of pack of pills, today it is 14 marks! I'm really surprised and it's very, very, it's a huge difference, these are the very important gatherings that require social programs and where it's our obligation to do something about it. And in that sense, I appeal, meaning, especially what the minister, the deputy minister, said that an Interresor Working Group was formed, that it really wasn't a working group that would work as long as the Commission for the Making of Denationalisation Law, to offer solutions as soon as possible. Whether it's going to be through social programs or through a change in VAT rate, we need to monitor the situation on the ground, not just slave to the administration and tell that something can't, because some administration can't handle it there. I'm really one of the people who thinks that we should look pragmatically at things, not slave some situations and some regulations and opinions of some kind of quasi or some kind of administrations that give themselves the authority to keep the whole state in line with their own thoughts. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15565	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Križanović, unless it is a replica. Križanović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15566	It's not. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that we, and it's not our first time to discuss this today, are going to have a very bad debate that we've repeated several times. I would like to remind you that this proposal by colleagues Dokić may be the fifth or sixth in a row of similar proposals that went towards amending the VAT law. I would remind you that we, like the SDP on two occasions, have tried to amend this law, with something wide-ranging list of education-related products, in publishing, books, magazines, publications of professional, scientific, artistic, cultural character, for the informative area, etc. However, we can state here, so many reasons why it should be done, but I will agree, that I would not repeat it, I will agree with colleagues who spoke before me about it: that the fundamental problem is that we do not have normal executive activities! You see, lately it has become a practice that more legislative initiatives, in terms of new laws or amendments and amendments to the law, come from Parliament's body or individuals in Parliament. And, of course, there is no individual capacity in Parliament to process the law in quality and to look at all the consequences it brings to itself. But it should be appreciated, I should say, that initiative in terms of the need for it to come from some place authoritative and competent under the law to justify and suggest it. ... In the sequence, when you reduce everything, you can conclude that, I don't know what reason either, but the Council of Ministers and the State Parliament, in a way, is the hostages of two ministers, entity finance ministers. Everything hides behind whether it's positive or negative, beware, opinion. It doesn't make any sense, and if it's a decision, it's even worse. We have therefore installed an administrative surrogate that has been imposed above the authority of two institutions in the state. And until, gentlemen, we don't understand this, we'll still have, it's normal to expect, initiatives to change the situation that will, apart from the barren debate here -- will have no effect. Let me finish. So, since this fits, it's just a bit narrower proposal than what the SDP suggested, here's the name of the SDP Club that we, by the logic of things, will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15567	Thank you. The following came to the discussion, honourable Ambassador Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15568	Thank you. And I really didn't mean to answer this part of the agenda, but here I have to. No one can be indifferent to stories and initiatives related to this law or to the initiative of counterpart Dokić. 75 This is a very important question and very interesting for everyone. I am in favour of solving social problems, but I'm not into doing it this way. And we support what counterpart Mehmedović said: I think that by introducing more tax rates, we would make more problems in the tax system, and we would not solve what our goal is. Here, I was now, while my colleagues were talking, making a rough bill – well, look at this – suppose there are 500,000 households living in BiH in a state of social need! If each of them were given 20 marks a month, I think we could overcome it, and that's more money than we would have achieved by introducing a differentiated rate, so we could in some way ease their difficult situation to the least, but that's, I'm saying, more than we would have gotten in this way. Besides, there's no adequate analysis, so maybe you wouldn't, but here's what I'm saying you would. That would mean 10 million marks a month or a year 120 million marks, and if we see what the budgets are, that's not even 3% of the budget, which means that it wouldn't mean anything to the budgets, and it would mean a lot to these people who would get it, and that's why there's one single conclusion: that there's no will to solve this problem, and this isn't a solution. So if we have the strength to conclude that an entity, a canton and a state budget is set aside by 3% to deploy to these needs, I think we can solve it without an inter-resor group, without a lot of work, without commissions, if we want to solve it. If we don't want to, there'll probably be another proposal in half a year, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15569	Dear Ambassador Erić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15570	I'd just remind my colleagues. The SDS club launched an initiative to reduce rates and, on those budgets that were working at the time, we came up with information that we're losing about 600,000, 600 million marks somewhere. With what the PDP gentlemen are proposing, I'm guessing it's a larger number, and counting that they're in RS government, that they're doing a good calculation, that they know what the situation is. I think their proposal is on the spot, and in addition to that, I'm proposing that last time, I think we're losing about a billion and a few million because we haven't introduced a register, because we're not a gray market that already exists, and there's already a concern if we introduce a zero rate that we're going to get to the gray market. So, destroy the gray market, introduce a register of cash registers and these programmes and legal standards that will come with signing with the EU, we will certainly help our people who are on the verge of misery, that through these zero rates, it is known that the poorest will feel the most. I therefore propose to this proposal, and I think we should work on it, we would no longer lose 200 to 300 million, therefore we would no longer have the need to complain so much about social peace, and you know that we have neither supported agriculture nor subsidies, and most likely this social programme will not be supported either. This is the best way for all of us who are here to justify ourselves in front of the public, and to say, we've cut down, we've made our contribution from these huge couples that we can't find an end to, here we are losing 200, 300 million consciously for that part of the population. Thank you. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15571	Thank you. Since there are no more reported, honourable MP Dokić asked for another word, or replica, at all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15572	Okay, Mr. Chairman, thank you. So here, I'm going to start with this, again someone's been discussing principles, and really no single argument could explain to the committee's position that the principles here were not satisfied. It's not about principles if some of the items aren't covered by someone who thought they should be covered, like newspapers, and I don't know what someone suggested. The law, if it goes in the second reading, then all MPs have the right to propose and extend this list to the one we have proposed. So here it is, this isn't about principles. It can be talked about comprehensiveness or, etc., etc. The same was said of the equal or greater benefits of this being enjoyed by those who belong to a richer class of society. Gentlemen, I'm just asking you: How many in BiH are the percentages of those belonging to this richer layer of this society? Over 70% live on the edge, as I say, of social, social hazards. This is really not a political issue in terms of politics; however, any issue that comes to Parliament is a political issue. And we're a political institution here. There have been previous explanations in the context that there have been attempts to change something here and this is one of these attempts. Because, among other things, no appropriate measures have been taken that were intended to be adopted when we passed this law. And for a few years now, we've been applying this law. This list is not broad, among other things, and because Mr Erić had just said, this would reduce the VAT contributions by more than 40% less than the surplus in the budget planned by VAT, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, I am stressing once again what life supplies are about, therefore, those things that directly affect and are an integral part of the fundamental existence of every man. I would, once again, take this opportunity to appeal to the MPs to open this process, to go to phase two, to provide an opportunity in the interior and the Council of Ministers to take technical measures on how to implement this. And I assure you, it's not very difficult to carry out this technically at all. The fact that the Taxation Authority did not answer, even though it was asked to be published on this issue, is in fact their indirect answer that they cannot find an objection to this proposal, but they are probably not ready to enter into one job. This is business, so we understand each other. But a job of interest to a large majority of citizens who are eager to raise these issues and bear in mind that trade unions in all areas of BiH are already very interested and are waiting for what kind of epilogue these discussions will also be under this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15573	Thank you. 77 Dear Ambassador Jašarević has yet to come forward for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15574	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must at first say that when we look at the proposal of this law, then there is always a dilemma in me, whether this law is spoken of in a popular way or in a responsible way. I'll take the risk and speak in a responsible manner. It is a problem for BiH to have fiscal stability protected by the Governing Board, but because there is no fiscal council, and each regulated country has a fiscal council that monitors the state's developments and proposes to the government, the Council of Ministers, how to behave against the amendments to these laws. And when we mention the Management Board, it associates us with failed management boards in state-owned enterprises and institutions and, in fact, the vote on the Management Board shows the complexity of our situation. So, in that vote, the entity ministers, therefore, have the right to veto, under quotes, said. So that shared jurisdiction is absolutely represented because it is about funding institutions at all levels of government. And it would be good to accept these attempts by MPs, whether they are from parties in position or opposition, as pressures on both the board of directors and the Council of Ministers to approach the problem of this value added tax. I think it's clear to everyone that we're going to have a differentiated rate. We should have had it at the beginning that we had a regulated country, and we had no fear at all of introducing this indirect taxation system. So we'll have it when we get the conditions. And we've been saying since the beginning of our term of office that because of the agreed CEFT Treaty, we should release these tariffs a little bit, so we can see how this is going to manifest to the budgets there. We should free up the goods that are repromaterial for production in BiH, for machines that are not manufactured in BiH, whose acquisition is a presumption of faster job creation. Once we cut customs rates, there'll be no funds in the budget. We're thinking about increasing excise duties on that luxury goods, as someone likes to say, although I don't know if it's tobacco luxury goods or some disease or addiction, well, when it's balanced, then it's going to take a final judgment on how to create conditions for a differentiated rate, in which the size of these lower rates, however much it should be, that someone who can elaborate on people is also popular, but that's responsible. So we simply have to be responsible enough in that segment. We are in a position not to have the BiH budget because people think a lot of funding is planned for the BiH budget. They don't think there's a lot of BiH, that they don't think there's a lot of entities, cantons and municipalities. So, we think it's a little BiH, the entities think that few entities and municipalities and cantons, and then we think that by reducing tax rates in VAT, we're going to solve such a set of problems throughout the country. That is why I think that this proposal, which the Assistant Minister of Finance has actually made, has no alternative, although I do not know whether Parliament needs to conclude, but, if necessary, let it also think about it. It would not be good if anyone were to lead the action of introducing a differentiated rate, except that it would be the Council of Ministers and the Directorate for Direct Taxation. And in the end... one tiny detail. It's always done at the beginning of the business year, in the middle of the year. Now, if we're going to list people back there on the ground, we don't even know what's going on with that tracking software, so the differentiated rate is ready. We, therefore, have here... that we don't know anything, except that we know that the people really are in one serious position and that we need to help him, and that I am convincingly more for social programs and packages than we are going to protect everyone there, as it is called, these most endangered layers of the population. Social programmes and basic packages under the law in BiH are not well solved. And we're talking about extra packages. So, neither what the law provides for social rights is 78, and we are talking about additional packages. So, I don't believe that this is the way to achieve what some MPs or some MP groups and clubs can be thought to achieve. So I'd like to vote for that proposal we'd make if it were just us. We don't need a majority or any minority, but we're also responsible for funding competences from all levels of government and we're talking about the social state of the population. So, in such a way that when responsibility is taken, then I am convinced that the Council of Ministers, when appointed here in a few days, should be obliged to have his first serious job answered to these issues of BiH's development, as the first fight against poverty and to correct the social situation, and then to see which order we will address the issue of customs, excise duties and, ultimately, value added tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15575	Thank you. I don't have any more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. And we're going to the 14th point of the agenda, Ad. 14. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the settlement of liabilities based on an old foreign savings account Dear MP Jerko Ivanković submitted this bill on 10 December 2007 to consider and adopt an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. At the 18th session, it was not accepted, nor was the abbey procedure accepted. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis on 14 December, and the Commission for Finance and Budget is responsible. You received that opinion on 23 December 2007. And here we have as at the previous point the negative opinion of this committee, so the principles of the bill are not supported. We are discussing and after that, when there is time for a vote, we are deciding on the opinion of this committee as at the previous point. I'm opening a debate on opinion and I'm giving my word to the promoter if he's in the mood to explain his proposal first. Dear Ambassador Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15577	The Honorable President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, the existing legislation that regulates this matter is contrary to the judgments received by foreign currency savings in the International Court and therefore, if it is contrary to the verdicts, it is very unfair for these people. We talked today, at this session, about the injustice that someone did 50 years ago, actually, 60 years and a few years ago, when people were being taken away from property and today we want to denationalize that injustice and at the same time we're doing the same thing as they did back then, because to people who have their property, where the International Court ruled that the state had to pay them back, we want to deny them that money. 79 As Mr. Lozančić just said kidnapped damn it, I don't think we should do it that way because it'll probably be cursed. I understand the Commission's position, and I understand most of you, who will say there's no money. We're going to bankrupt the state and it can't be worth it. And according to existing legislation – that is right, there is no money to pay for it – but we here have the power to change legislation, to change tax policy, because we have the least luxury tax in the region, especially in relation to EU countries. One part of that luxury, and I've talked about it before, are cigarettes. This Marlboro is over 5 marks more expensive in front of the factory that manufactures it than in BiH. So we've passed the laws that we've forgiven this cigarette manufacturer five marks per box? What are the effects of us forgiving a cigarette manufacturer five marks per box? To poison our citizens, to suffer from various diseases that cigarettes cause, to shorten their lives, because science has confirmed that some eight years shorter a smoker lives than a smoker. And then our health funds have to spend huge resources to treat these people and then, who are naturally ill, have to buy medicines because health funds don't have the means to pay for them. And then today, pensioners who have a pension of 150-200 or 300 Marks have to pay their medicines because health funds spent money on what we caused, because we forgave some cigarette manufacturer money and thus lost funds to even pay off our liabilities to old foreign currency savings. So, this law, if we adopt it today, will need to be monitored in the next period, meaning changes in tax laws, which would provide money, so that the law can respect completeness. If we do that, then we'll pay back the money savings, tax the luxury, and they're one cigarettes, we'll protect people's health because it's safe for people to smoke less, we'll keep them in retirement, actually, health funds more money, so those who naturally get sick don't have to buy drugs. In order to do all of this successfully, I would like to propose one conclusion: to form an ad hoc commission for talks with the Association of Old Foreign Savings of BiH from the Proposer of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Reconciliation on the basis of an old foreign savings account which was discussed at the 20th session of the House of Representatives and by one member from the largest club from each entity, that, in essence, with the association of this law in the next parliamentary phase, we should review it once again, to see whether there are still possibilities for certain amendments that will be acceptable both to legislation and to the Association of Old Foreign Savings and to end the agony that people have for 18 years. The radical measures that the association is most concerned with, I don't think it's a solution for either of us or them. The solution is this law, although I fully understand it, because people have been saving it for 20 or 30 years, for 18 years they've been waiting for it to come back to them. So people are mostly older than they are, like, 60 or 70 years old. And then, when we have the law we say, we'll give it back to you in nine years, if that's a message to say, "When you die, you'll have your funds back!" And then you understand that people are willing to do anything to make it happen before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15578	Thank you. Deputy Finance Minister Mr. Kasumović asked for a word. Here's 80.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15579	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, I will introduce you to the current or present situation as it is. So, this home, and the House of Peoples, means it's adopted...... in fact, changes and additions to the Law on the settlement of liabilities based on the account of the old foreign savings, and there we said that the savings would be returned to nine years. What do I mean? First, I support the esteemed representative Lijanović in this regard about cigarettes. I smoke too, but it's not a subject, so I don't want to talk about it. I'm talking about old foreign savings. So, and this home has passed a law that is in force and... the implementation of this law is at a critical stage right now, and that's why I'm not surprised that there are initiatives to change it right now. I'll introduce you to the law that we have until 31.3. this year to issue bonds and here today one was a big meeting where everyone involved in this project brings things to an end. So, the finance and vault ministry is this, and for the sake of BiH citizens who have it to know it, so it hired the Central Bank as its fiscal agent to issue bonds. So this is clear, too, so you won't be left with any savings due, as Mr. Lijanović says. He's coming back to everyone. So, according to the current version of the law, it's up to nine years old. Also, they'll all get interest in two periods. One period to issue bonds, one period from issue to payment. Second, they won't wait nine years for them to charge. Every year, where their giro-accounts, or conta, or whatever you want to call, they alone, those who have verified their savings, opened up, minimum twice a year will lie in cash. So, as much as they had the funds. As for the announcement of radical measures and that, I think – as this deadline is coming to us to issue these bonds, they will be yet to announce these radical ones – there is no need for any radical measures. I will also meet the Savings Association and other citizens: we have many victims of war, there are much more difficult cases than old foreign currency savings. I say they're damaged, too, but there's a lot of people more damaged, but here's the foreign currency savings, they're the first ones to be solved. What is it that people of BiH are constantly trying to protect themselves with some kind of court in Strasbourg? So, I mention and repeat, Strazbur only solves those problems that sued Strazbura before the law was passed. Now this state has, and according to the Constitutional Court, a legitimate law that says that its financial power can be so great that it returns in the next nine years. Next, that we are serious and will return to those savings. I'll remind you that you passed a law where you said priority is number one of those old foreign currency savings. What do I mean? In order not to have enough funds in the budget, none of us will get paid, nor anything else until the foreign debt is paid and these savings. I don't think anyone in this country has any more guarantees on that matter. And most importantly, I have to meet both you and the viewers who are following this, everything, means getting to know each other. The currency savings are three times smaller than what we predicted. And now, in the law that you left behind the dilemma, what only today can you do. You're in charge of the Council of Ministers to re-evaluate whether that period of up to nine years that we left in law, until nine, to reconsider once more, because I'm going to inform you. The funds that have been verified so far: around 220 million in RS, about 410 million in the Federation and about 40 million in the Brcko District. You know it's been talked about, that it's billions, this, that, etc. My, that I'm in the place of you, so all this stuff that's been required of these changes, how are we going to change the verification? The verification is complete, gentlemen, by law, you know, until 31.9, if I'm not mistaken, so all procedures are completed at this stage along with international institutions. We're working on bonding, and we're going to do 31. There was one problem that the government and parliament of the RS passed the same law, related to old foreign savings, but probably on the suggestion of us from the Ministry of Finance and the international community; it, as far as I know, is not yet published and not needed. The only thing that I, if I were a member of Parliament, would be to discuss with the Council of Ministers one more time to consider what to nine and finally say how old it is! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15580	Thank you. We have two options: to open a discussion on this issue, to first let the MPs speak or to have a request from the old foreign savings and associations that they address Parliament first. I don't care. We can work in any way. If you'd like, here's in front of the Savings Association Mr. Svetozar Nišić. You have five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15581	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, the honourable MPs of the House of Representatives, this is the third time we have spoken to you who have sworn to protect fundamental human rights. I think that's the way it is. If human rights violations are taken in BiH at every turn, I think this should be the end, and we need to get serious finally to go the way I spent 50 years. I know what democracy is and what human rights are, I know what anti-mittins are, what dissatisfactions are of citizens. It is not banned anywhere but in BiH, especially in RS. Dear ladies and gentlemen, sir, Mr. Kasumović has told you something here that has deceived you all together. Because it's really inappropriate and I can't understand that one man in that position can deceive the whole public. Why? The verification they carried out? We will deliver each of you, to every messenger, every document in which they deceive the citizens, and to you, and to the whole public. As for our negotiations in Sarajevo and Bihac at the Sedra Hotel, first, they did not respect what Mr Kasumović and I signed. And we asked for an audit of the so far verification of those private agencies that cheated on citizens – you don't know that – which wrote off people's foreign exchange savings and transferred to their private accounts and bought state capital. We asked for a review to be carried out first, and then we're going to check the data. That didn't happen. They continued their verification practice in that way, and we have a signature, we'll show you and we'll deliver each individual. What happens through verification? First, only three percent is verified. Three percent of total foreign savings. Mr. Kasumović tells you here that he has another 200-300 or 400 million foreign currency savings marks. We must be true, honest, and honest. We are prepared to do anything to help ourselves, our citizens and our country,...we have no other. It is that the foreign savings only 82 of us processed, in our institution. I call upon each of you, and his travel expenses will be paid. And mine weren't paid, Mr. Kasumović, for Bihac when we went, you didn't pay us! We've made a request for you to pay us at least that cost. You didn't even answer. You're not like the biggest NGO and multiethnic association or association in Europe, we didn't get one fening because we asked you to help us out a little bit. And we would help those who are the most endangered. We're so far, I'm now 150,000 miles with my car, which I was in '94. He bought, passed Europe, Strasbourg and the Council of Europe, the EU countries and so far, seeking the right for these old outcasts and the most honest and the best, the most working people. We have so far processed data, and you have on our website, I ask you, 1 billion and 7 million, with 20,000 processed documents. One billion and seven million! We will not allow ourselves, to be deceived, to lie to our people, our messengers, etc.- I'm sorry. The exchange of savings can be determined in one way, as the Constitutional Court has said and I have, if you will, I will quote the Constitutional Court of BiH, at the request of these two presidents, who says: this law – what it says – violates, this law on foreign exchange savings, it abolishes the right to property. That's the law we've been making so far. Secondly, Mr. Kasumović said he had no money. He's got money to pay off the old foreign savings. We spoke with Mr. Kozarić three weeks ago and Mr. Vladušić at the Central Bank. All the money that went into the Central Bank, exclusively from the Sucession to pay off the so-called. The old foreign savings, disappeared from the Central Bank, because it was divided into two entities and two entity ministries that, in verification, would issue bonds, and that money would go into private pockets. I swear to you, and we have an investigation. One more thing. The truth will come, it's slow but it's true. Here we have a criminal report to the BiH Prosecutor's Office that is transferred to private accounts by our foreign savings, that the foreign savings don't even know. That's why I'm hoping this will soon have an epilogue. So that verification they're doing is designed to keep foreign currency savings out of check. And as you can see, I came here, I didn't bring dynamite, and those stories that are being told are our foreign currency savings that are calling and asking for 17 years more radical measures every day, and they suggested the following: to have a public debate, to attend all the organs most responsible, to report by name and last name, that it's their idea, and it's not mine, but they make me say it. Secondly, about protest rallying in Gradišca and Izačić? How is it possible that in one country they have two laws? How is it possible for one police to respect basic human rights and allow a peaceful protest rally to take place, and on the other hand, these old people are being shot down, broken, their ribs are breaking, their eardrums are breaking, their glasses, their phones, etc.- I'm sorry. And is this possible in BiH? Is it possible to bind the man I see here, the handcuffs, the 75-year-old man, to tie him to a pillar of light? This is just one little piece I brought. EUFOR, who recorded all this, invited us to Gradiška and Bihać, had three or four hours of debate, went to Sarajevo's EUFOR General Command, and went to the Security Council. There happened something that didn't happen during Stanjin, Hitler and Milošević. One more, is it possible that the RS police, the special police who protects special crime, and we've investigated everything! Gentlemen, we have an investigative office, please come with SIPA together! What did we investigate? If you and every individual knew, I guarantee that you would rise up and say, "Give these 83 people back their money!" And I'm calling, asking you to come, each. To see what we've explored, what crime and corruption has been done here, precisely through these old people and their property. Is it possible that an MP like Mr. Jovičić, I must call on him to come out and ask me to be forbidden to speak to you, Evropljanin, the man who has been helping the whole war on BiH's territory with his shoes? We have photos, we have documents, not only in RS, but everywhere, with international organisations. I need to be banned for the following reasons. Because Mr. Jovićić has one way to get rid of me this way, as Milan Vukeljić went in the middle of Banja Luka and two more innocent citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15582	With all due respect, please address the MPs in the institutions. We've allowed you to speak about this law here. Your time has passed. If you have anything else to say, I'll let you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15583	There's something else. Here, thank you very much for your warning. Now, here's the deal. For your information, we're asking to check our bank records, check our bank accounts, check our books, we didn't ask for anything else. Ten times we are not allowed access by Mr. Kozarić: you are right, Mr. Nišić, to check your booklet and your account. We're not allowed to do that. That's all we're asking for, and when we check it out, then we'll know that there's no more foreign savings in our accounts because she went to private accounts to buy state capital. And just for a little while longer, let me just tell you what they've committed... The Constitutional Court and the measure that the Constitutional Court passed last, 2006; Parliament adopted according to this... The decision of five years and 5% interest, and yet, not to forget, is the verdict of the International Court of Justice, which Mr Kasumović says only verdicts are made, to fool you, only for those who have sued. That's not true. I have here three judgments now that have arrived, which have not been addressed by men, addressed by the courts, but there has been no judgment. One example. Please think of us all and your future. Mr. Kusić of Gradiška sought for three or four years, had his wife immobilized, to be given 100-200 marks per month for treatment. He didn't win. He turned to us in our institution. We sent all the documents to the International Court, asked for it. Its total amount was 430 thousand marks. The verdict was reached at 427,000,088 euros plus 4,000 euros in immaterial damage. Is it our goal to destroy the BiH state? It's not. I don't think so. What we're looking for is a minimum. We're asking to limit payment. To allow us to have our foreign currency savings in banks, to have us present for...the worst cases. Let it stand, I won't lift it, many of our people won't lift it. And only when he needs a cure or anything. And to limit, say, it can raise 100 marks this month or by six months 1,000 marks. I think that's the solution, my people. Let's figure it out sometime. What happened, I'll just read this for a little while.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15584	Please. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15585	This Constitutional Court decision, just a second, please. In the Constitutional Court's decision, here's what I'm going to read, they're all committed, we'll read the RS. He says this way, I ask you, says the government, the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" 108/3 of those decisions, as stated in the response, has found that the commitments of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia are considered to be generally unsettled commitments under the so-called "Budget of the Republic of Slovenia". the old foreign exchange savings, and the estimated sources of funds for the settlement of fixed liabilities, with the funds of a specific so-called so-called ‘supervisory’. esco accounts, funds from privatisation of government capital and funds from the surplus of former SFRY assets and regular appropriations. This was accepted by the government when the Constitutional Court asked them to. Please, the state capital has been sold out. Foreign savings didn't get anything. They passed the law so that others could buy our foreign exchange savings, and we didn't get anything. So please understand that we are friends of this country. We don't have any others. We'll help as much as we can. We'll get our money back... in BiH. We'll bring money from abroad that these people are being hired here. Why am I with my 600,000, when it's calculated, I want to hire a few people or give credit to a small 2% or 3%, not 10%? Our money gives out the credits. That money's out there. Thank you very much. I ask you to respect that, finally, to resolve this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15586	Thank you. Deputy Minister Kasumović had a replica, and then the honourable MP Jovičić comes. I think it's time for everything. Let's do it in that order.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15587	I'll just inform Mr. Nišić and all the old foreign currency savings. The BiH state has ended the story of this. She passed the law, and now you can say whatever you want. I think you're wasting your time. Everything you said here, you should have asked people to see how that number of years could be reduced. Which Mr. Nišić mentioned on a few occasions to me that I promised this, so, what, I have no interest in anything. So, I don't care who's in the old foreign currency family or what part of it is I'm interested in. Everything I've done, I've done, as far as I know, and what's human and I think this is human what I suggested. There's no need, I repeat, for explosives, or for you to pull it out. I'm calling you all the time. It's always the same story about how someone stole those funds. If there's an association, I'm asking you to bring it to me, but you don't have to bring it to me, so hand it over to the prosecution. Nothing solves this thing that we're about. So give it to everyone, and it'll be over. So, just so everyone knows, this is what we're fooling everyone with. The law has been passed and that story is over. And about Strasbourg. I must repeat once again: only those who have sued before the law was passed and whose papers have been received upstairs will be handled by Strazbur. No more cases will, because we have the law, and the courts will do so. This is for sure, because I can't lie, I work in the government, I can't lie in public here. No way. Thank you. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15588	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić, dear Ambassador Okolić, in that order of replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15589	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, when this new assembly of Parliament took over, I would say, the commitment to the old foreign exchange savings, I will only remind you, that I was on the side of foreign foreign savings today. Not one individual or anyone else. And you remember then I asked BiH to enter international arbitration with Slovenia, to really see how much the Ljubljanska Banka has robbed money from these savings. Same case, of course, with the South Jugobanka. No matter who it is. So, the Council of Ministers, in some earlier councils and in bilateral contacts with Slovenia or their representatives, has never entered that story. So I claim responsible and see people here and all I know is that Dr. Ajanović is from the '90s. He was a messenger for years, and no one is here anymore, and he is not in that power. Excuse me, Doctor, what shall I say? He could steal or steal, I know he is a righteous man. And today, who stole and saved those years? Is there any way to see it, to form a survey committee, a committee, to examine who stole that money in the '90s, 1991? So, I am still today, just for the sake of the public and for these honest people there with foreign savings, on their side as I was then. But it's not Mr. Nišić's Association of Foreign Savings! You heard it just now. You know how Vukolić ended up? That's how I'm supposed to end up tomorrow. And if someone's gonna pay you back your foreign savings, here's what I volunteer to say you're not doing it, that I'm going to hang myself, if you're going to take care of it. Don't bother for nothing, don't mount an explosive, and I don't know what. Mr. Nišić,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15590	Please, just yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15591	I don't have a need for you to have sex with me because you're not in this position. This is a democratic Parliament, and you will not see anywhere in the world that someone will give you the opportunity to say this and open up from a pay phone, has a stenogram, threatens an MP with murder.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15592	Where were you in Europe?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15593	Just a little quiet, please, or else we'll finish this agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15594	I don't want the controversy with you. I'm asking for protection from Parliament. So this is today's second attack, one I've already experienced, and I laughed at that attack, because it's really a joke. At the entrance, 86 when I came in, Mr. Nišić said, "All about you, Mr. Glory, I know." You'll end up in The Hague. What did I do? During the war, I was in the camp and, well, it doesn't matter. So now I'm pushing for this issue to be solved in a way that's only normal. The state must not go bankrupt! And you can't keep putting yourself in a position to see if the RS MUP beat anyone! Where does anyone's right to paralyze the state's system, to block the border crossings, roads, they can't pass these, they, strangers? Who will come to us here if the road is blocked for four hours? Who gave this right to anyone to paralyze the state?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15595	Please turn away from the subject. We're talking about this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15596	We're talking about the law. So, to bring foreign savings, I'm betting that their money comes back, they make a fair living. But there's no revolution, and ad hoc against the system, the most institutions, and, please, nicely, I'm a responsible man, I'm not lying. Look at the TV footage, any of which says: I have 150 volunteers, we'll all be in danger with explosives, and we'll attack everyone. Isn't that an open threat to the state?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15597	Let's get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15598	I'll be back on the subject. So, please, Mr. Chairman – Mr. Kasumović I don't know where to go – I ask the Council of Ministers to find the latest modes and to really see if it's 600 of these millions or 1 billion and 700 million? What kind of money was that, foreign savings? Do we know that? Here's to believing it's true what they say. What are these ways, other than what Mr. Kasumović said, is there anything else? How about over these cigarettes? Here today, can we pass the law really, if possible, a pack of 30 marks. Let's go if possible, here's what I'm proposing, I'm smoking, 30 marks. Is there anything we can do? Let's sit down and work out how it's possible to get that foreign savings back! We said until nine years ago. But she won't last nine years! I wish we could get her back in three years. To help people. So, what am I saying? I don't want public perception that I'm against foreign savings. On the contrary. Most of all, I've stood up for it all the time, and in the media, to get their foreign currency back. But is it possible in any way, if the state is going to go bankrupt, if we don't have the money?- I'm sorry. So please and here from the Council of Ministers there is also a minister, of course and Kasumović is very responsible, hearing, what are these ways that they speed up and shorten?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15599	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15600	Here, finished. Thank you. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15601	Dear Ambassador Okolić. It was a replica, wasn't it? You see, we have another request from the Federation, the Federation Savings Association, and it's time to let him say three minutes, so we can bring this discussion to an end. Mr. Srkalović, please. I ask you to have consideration in the House where you are and to address with due respect the MPs, the executive authority. Every other relationship, I say, will be interrupted in time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15602	Dear MPs, I welcome you. I come from the Federation of BiH – old foreign savings. I can tell you that we in our association disagree with the methods of organized so-called. Binladen's assault on explosives and all that radical stuff. But we can't guarantee anyone that when they reach their throat, they won't take such measures. 'Cause, man, if he's sick and he ain't got no medicine, he says, 'I got that kind of money, they stole me! Who can guarantee it? Who can guarantee it to me? I can't guarantee anyone I'll take some radical action tomorrow. So I ask you to resolve the fair, fair issue of solving the old foreign savings. I will say what we disagree on about the old foreign savings this parliament has brought. The next thing I know, this document was given to me by the former finance minister, Mrs Ljerka Marić, who delivered the Commission for Human Rights at the BiH Constitutional Court, in Bećirević's case and others. Point 10 says nicely: Finally, the commission ordered the BiH defendant to provide a guarantee for the payment of bonds by maturity. In that sense, the commission cited what it had ordered and what it had ordered in point 1000-0-25. Gentlemen, you are MPs in the state parliament, the ruling of the Constitutional Court of BiH must be carried out. Why does he have to pollemize? Please, there's a guarantee to be made for the payment of bonds. That's why... there's no verification going on, Mr. Kasumović, as you think! Because, Mr Kasumović, I will now state to you: BiH, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina has issued employment bonds. Those bonds have a tendency not to charge. Taking into account that, he saves his trusts in the bonds issued by the Republic of BiH, i.e. on behalf of the entity, because once they got bonds, why double-cross someone? I have a camera of those bonds, Mr. Kasumović. And no one's gonna take it to verify because, excuse me, verification means consent in the way of paying off the old foreign savings. Let me explain this to you. The old foreign savings have property status, but when we sign that we agree to the bonds, we move on to the bond, and it's no longer property, it's a bond. Talk to your lawyers, Mr Kasumović. So we're turning into a bonding state. We're losing property. That's to be clear. I'll call tomorrow; give us a guarantee. You say the guarantee of the International Fund, i.e. The respect you need to issue a set of... guarantees from the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. All right. But you have to provide any guarantee. Let's just say, when you enter a commercial bank, it means you're being saved for nine years, treated to return their assets in wars. All right. But come on, when he goes to the bank, they're asking you to give me or guarantee, because you can't provide a guarantee, give us a mortgage. And what do you guarantee? In a nice word, on the cheek, is it? Should we put it on your face? 88 So tomorrow you pass a law by which you can't pay off that old foreign currency savings, you have more interests and then it bit the donkey wolf, right? Well, I'm sorry, Mr. Kasumović, we're not that silly. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15603	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15604	I'll cut it short, sir. Please, Mr. Kasumović, if you bring in, then, mortgage property, state property, elektroprivreda or Telecom, let it stand still for you. You buy the dividend, but let's mortgage it, if the bonds can't be paid, if they can't pay off, here you go, we'll charge by selling Telecom and Elektroprivreda. That's it. I thank Mr. Chairman, I've had so much more, but I've been so parliamentary to cut short. Thank you very much. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15605	Thank you. Since we have an obligation under the Rules of Procedure to request a word at any time from the Council of Ministers, Honorable Deputy Finance Minister Kasumović asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15606	I'm really sorry. Maybe they don't understand me, but I have to do it again next. There is no greater guarantee than this House and the law that has been given to you. It says there: So nothing can be paid, no one's salary, no material expenses, you're in the balance of external debt. So, anything standing in this country, there's no stronger guarantee. The second thing, this country is in charge of nearly 4 billion. And today and today, this country is raising loans. So, no world institution, since they know we're returning neatly, and they're not asking for any guarantee. So, I repeat, and for your sake and for your savings, as far as I'm concerned, I'm just asking you to finish. The Constitutional Court's ruling states exactly what stands and exactly what is done in law. So, justly everyone in the state of BiH and the state of BiH to you, not entities, says this will be. I repeat, there is no stronger guarantee in the world than you are given. So there's no payment until it's worth it to you. And these are very small funds for this country to question whether we can do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15607	Thank you. Next for discussion, just in order. It means: Dolić, Novaković, Okolić, Prodanović, Dokić. 89 Here you are, dear Ambassador Dolić, first.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15608	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, after all this time and after all these more than 18 or almost 20 years of experience and experience the owners of old foreign exchange savings, from restricting rights and total disenfranchisement to demeaning and ignoring this right, it is difficult to say something new to this question. I have so many times so far, that in the House of the Federation, which in this House, spoke on this subject and, believe me, after all, I am ashamed to say anything at all after all. I will not comment on the way Mr Kasumović expressed the Council of Ministers' position here probably as proposed by this law. I'm just going to say that this way is inappropriate and that you'd probably say differently that he loaned someone his money and that someone was so ignoring and humiliating to whoever loaned him the money. This second, I don't think I should comment. There doesn't seem to be enough motive for seriousness and responsibility against the owner of the old foreign savings, not the undisputed right to private property, is not motive. So our motive is not even our moral attitude towards the owners of savings, our motive is neither the Constitutional Court's verdicts, nor the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and many other things. Although I am not on the side of violence and threats of any kind, I understand the impulses of the owners of the old foreign savings which these days turn into threats of truly incomprehensible dimensions. These are not threats from the minds of the owners of the old foreign exchange savings, because they are mature and serious people, but they are words from the souls of disfigured and humiliated people, and I really do understand them. Everyone in this country is at least clear about the old foreign savings. It is a basic form of private property, private property, it is about the undisputed and judgments of courts of confirmed rights of private property, and it is about the fact that the BiH state is obstructing these rights, ignoring through the entire arsenal of moves, offered solutions and deafening the judgment of the highest court cases in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15609	The theme is the bill. Please focus on the subject. No more cameras. What was filmed, filmed!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15610	Well, then I don't have any interest.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15611	So I see you don't, then it's...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15612	Driving savings from entities to the state and in the opposite direction, for me is nothing more than obstructing and making it impossible for owners of old foreign savings in BiH to exercise their elemental property rights. It is clear that the obligations towards owners of the old foreign currency savings obligation of the BiH state which it has accepted under international conventions and before the recognition of itself as 90 states from the UN, and it is clear that we, as MPs of this home and this home, are responsible for this obligation to the owners of the old foreign currency savings. Very often today, from the high political officials of this country, so here we are today, we can hear the the the thesis of what a insistence is on the full exercise of the rights of owners of old foreign currency savings, in fact, insistence or the way to bankruptcy of the state. Anyone who knows the state of affairs is clear that this is about pure demagogy and the deception of citizens and the public and that it is nothing more than another immoral assessment and immoral bidding of the feelings of the owner of the old foreign currency savings. Even if such a thesis had a real basis, and if it were personally in the dilemma that I was deciding between responsibility for dissuasion, agony and humiliation of this number of people, owners of old foreign exchange savings, and responsibilities for bankruptcy or financial disturbances in the country, I would rather choose responsibility for financial disorders in the country, in favour of human rights. There have been many opportunities so far, and there is still a need to address this issue to the satisfaction of people and without the bankruptcy of the state. And I'm only concerned with the will and willingness to place available instruments and models in the role of exercising the rights of the owner of the old foreign currency savings. Indeed, it is a lot of instruments, from the means of succession, from the privatisation of banks, from the effects of VAT, from additional taxes, etc. Indeed, the entire arsenal of instruments is available. What particularly hurts the owners of old foreign savings is therefore continuous humiliation and ignoring. It may be a bit of a personal nature, but as one of the heirs of the old foreign savings, behind my dead parents, I would rather always accept the right to give up in favour of the state than accept the humiliation and ignoring of my rights. And that's, I mean, even with these people the most painful. It's the most painful thing for them right now. I didn't say this for the sake of... exclusively some sort of stretching of my opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15613	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15614	Let me just have a minute more. I've already said what most of these people think, the owner of old foreign savings. The law that is under discussion today in front of this house is really solidly reasoned and the explanation is a summary of our opinions and the facts that follow the issue of old foreign savings. Any realistic and well-intentioned understanding of this argument, but it is clear that an acceptable solution can only be found in the partnership relationship between the owners of old foreign exchange savings, Parliament and the Council of Ministers. The partner relationship is lagging behind and it is tragic if the damage caused by the lack of this partnership relationship is now merely being invoiced by savings. I will support this law in the first reading, aware of all its shortcomings because, personally, I cannot and do not want to bear the burden of shame and personal responsibility for the continuation of agony and dissuasion of the owner of the old foreign currency savings. In addition to this responsibility, none of us should downplay the issue of responsibility for the implementation of these verdicts and the Constitutional Court of BiH and the Court of Justice in Strasbourg. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15615	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here's 91.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15616	Well, now that there's no cameras, I don't even know if you'd talk?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15617	This was... just a finding.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15618	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, you see, we have discussed this many times in the past two years. What can be drawn from this whole story is inconsistency in attitudes. When the first law was proposed, then we had a deadline of about 13 years and then we were convinced here that it was not possible to move that deadline for even a year, otherwise we will cause a complete collapse in BiH. It has been said that the interest rate cannot be anything greater than 0% or we will cause a complete collapse in BiH. And that's when we warned that it was a flat-rate, non-refined figure. After that comes the law on changes that says: it is not 12 but nine years and it will not cause collapse, financial collapse, monetary failure in BiH and will not cause an interest rate. First, 0.5% and then larger later. Today, the deputy minister says that the obligations are less than they thought, and that it is possible to reduce that further nine years. That's what they're going to say, here's what I realized, that it's possible for seven years. And you see, for seven years, it's been the number these people have been looking for from the beginning and they'd be happy with. So, seven years. And we'll end up at seven years, but seven years we'll come after three years of exhausting with these people. And they're with us and we're with them. We're all aware that five years is too ambitious but also that seven years is real. It didn't take us this long, and it didn't take us to draw conclusions based on the pausal grades. I wish the Deputy Minister had come out today and said: if that figure could be so much and so much, with that and that interest, in that and that period, the Council of Ministers calculated it or, gentlemen of Parliament, we are in the course of the calculation and you will have full information in three weeks, three months, and you will know exactly that day, how much and how long it will be. Perhaps today's debate would be much less bile and probably all of us would have left, probably freed from one of these pressures, let's say, an honest relationship with these people. We all have the same relationship here, I guess, with these people. And those who support and those who do not support. The problem is that I – I am now going back to the previous point when Mr Dokić spoke of surplus income – the problem is that there is no surplus income, budget revenues that these governments cannot quickly spend. There's no extra income like that. Therefore, there is no surplus income here that will reduce deadlines unless the objectives are set here and those objectives are respected. Someone said 220 million in RS. So the administrative center cost about 220 million. But here, I'm not that we don't have an administrative center. By chance, the coincidence is the figures, so 220 million there -- 220 million over here. So, I will be against the Commission's position, a negative report by the Commission, and I will support a practical conclusion, but it would be good if the motioner had more clearly defined the obligations of the Council of Ministers. I'm not sure this committee, the Ad hoc commission with the Council of Ministers, is going to make it, but here, if it works, it's good. So, we're going to leave that period, so we're going to support that conclusion, and we're going to leave that period to see if the Ad hoc Commission can make it through to the Council of Ministers -- whatever those numbers are -- whatever they are, but once they're final, and then with those final numbers, we go to these people and we say, "This is all BiH can do." Under and above this isn't real, so then we can do everything here, so it can turn upside down, but we can't do any more. This is how we leave the impression that we can do more. They're the only ones who need to put pressure on them, so we're going to cut them from 12 to nine, so let's let them put some pressure on them, and we're going to cut them from nine to seven. Unfortunately, we leave a message like that. It's the ugliest message for us, and by them, it seems to me, constantly giving them the right to do what they're doing, though, I have to be honest, in a lot of things I don't support lately, I don't support some statements and some attitudes, but again, it's the right thing for someone who's left without medication and who would die anyway, it's the right to fight for life, even if it's a non-democratic means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15619	A correction of the incorrect allegations was reported by the esteemed chairman, Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15620	Thank you. I agree on a lot of things in Mr. Novaković's discussion but they have some things, of course, that I can't go through and that I would have to comment on as a correction to the incorrect quote, especially when it comes to principle. If we're going to talk about another principle, then we should start with our principle. The principled position of the SDS, that immediately after Dejton, it starts to verify the old foreign savings, to see where these banks' money disappeared during the war and to immediately return old foreign currency savings to all those who need to be returned to the old foreign currency savings. So much for principle. And in the second finding that 220 million were missing, but that's why we have a government building. For their term of office, we had neither the 220 million nor the government building, but now, thank Bog, it is on the move: the government building and the money will be returned in the way that the law and what the Government of RS has already adopted – up to seven years. I hope it goes faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15621	Responsibilities to the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15622	Well, you see, I did really talk about principle. During the government of Ante Marković, a significant part of these funds was, unfortunately, extracted from the country, from these banks. The party's member is the current SNSD president, Mr Milorad Dodik, so we can discuss principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15623	Correction of the incorrect allegation: Honored President Živković. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15624	We have a variety of principles, but here we also talk about this kind of principledity which, on the proposal and this House, has accepted to determine for the second time the Ad hoc commission of Bahtić Sadik, Jukić Velimir, Dokić Branko, Majkić Dušanka, Rajić Božo, Hazim Rančić and to determine the amount of old foreign savings from BiH citizens placed on domestic banks' accounts in BiH and branches, to establish the state of old foreign exchange savings in banks and branches from the previous point, concluded at 1.6.2007, that what Mr Lijanović, in the third point, says: He proposes measures and conclusions to be directed to the relevant institutions, with the aim of further treatment of any irregularities observed in the process of verification of old foreign exchange savings and interest. So much for the principle and the way we work, and we don't amnest anyone. Thank you. Thank you. Next: Dear Ambassador Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15626	This issue has been raised for a long time as an ongoing issue with difficult statements and difficult words to the difficult situation of these people dealing with this problem, i.e. old foreign savings. I would – perhaps if I had some belief that one or the other was right – sided with those whom I am convinced are right. When I speak to one or the other, I mean the Association of Old Foreign Savings or the Council of Ministers, that is to say, who should enter into partnership relations with them and pass certain laws or already amend the additions of laws. But I'm not sure I can believe some of the information that we've been presented before and that we've discussed in the previous period because now some new moments are coming up, some other data. It seems to me that this is a serious problem and that these men of urgency are forced to react as they respond, whether it's justified or not, but a higher force or necessity has forced them to approach this more seriously and perhaps this conclusion by Mr. Jerka, I might have modified it a little bit, a commission, can be maintained, but here's what's happening to me here that gives me a misunderstanding. Mr. Deputy Minister said that, although we are unable to get the right information and official data and the ultimate data on how much that figure refers to old foreign exchange savings – I have now heard that it is 1 billion and 7 million... of old foreign exchanges, excuse me, that it is about 700 million, and the Association of Old Foreign Savings that it is a billion and 7 million figure. Now, look, if you're looking at what's less than a billion and 7 million, it's about 30 percent, which is the same data for analysis and what's the alarming data. If we look at the other way around, how much more is it than what the deputy minister said – it's about 50% somewhere. With such data, it seems to me that we need to get into serious controversy and get to the correct data, or, at least as far as possible, so that we can make a full statement about this problem. You see, it was 12 and nine years ago, the predecessors were saying it, so there were some, here, as unrealistic five well, here, as a real seven years, and I finally wonder what this would turn out to be and it seems to me that we, perhaps in the end, are going to come up with some kind of compromise, some kind of number that would satisfy both the state and the association. That's why I'm suggesting that maybe this commission can be formed that would arbitration, or whatever you want to call it, between these old foreign savings -- their representatives and authorities -- and come up with one final data, and that they really tell us responsibly, as Mr. Deputy said they shouldn't give false information after this pay phone, so... there would be... these final figures and that we no longer come to any new moments and any new data from the session. I am convinced, through the monitoring of all these discussions, writing by the press etc., that this law that is now in force can suffer certain changes. Kolike, I'm not sure, but in any case, yes, and that's why I'm going to support our club today, and it's going to be against the commission's conclusion. Not only because we may think that this proposal is an amendment and an addition of the law is 100% fine, but that we should initiate or irritate this issue and that, perhaps in a shorter period, there is more complete data and some new and better compromise-based solution. I, as far as I could see, needed a good will here, and it didn't seem that good will was enough. I'm not going to say she wasn't there, but I don't think it was enough because she broke the moment the relationship got sharpened. Instead of silencing tensions and continuing to co-operate and to seek compromises, it simply broke down by passing this law, which cut off some kind of relationship and we got thousands of unsatisfactory savings on one side. Let's not be satisfied, but it seems that these emergency people are dissatisfied and that it is indeed true, on the basis of some indicators, that a good part of these savings now barely survives, and that they had...a good savings or a good situation and that they could live today as they should and, after all, that they are damaged by the inability to invest their capital in the development and expansion of their capital. That is why we will support them, or we will be against the Commission's conclusion, as I said, for the reason that, perhaps, we will initiate some things and come up with new opportunities and discussions, accurate data and better proposals, and by the Council of Ministers and finally...the figures on interest, the final period of time for payment, etc., etc. and, ultimately, to come to the conclusion that perhaps the Council of Ministers is satisfied with this Parliament's decision, as well as the Association of Old Foreign Savings, or old foreign savings. I hope that they will understand this issue and understand the situation in which BiH is located and that the Council of Ministers, in some next or through changes and additions to this law, will offer some solutions that are more favourable to all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15627	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić: replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15628	The Honorable chairman, therefore, if there is a political option in BiH that would today pass a law to pay for the foreign savings in a year, then it is a SNSD but must be known who stole the money. The SNSD didn't exist in '91, '92, during the war. Today, when the SNSD is in power, both in the RS and here makes up the parliamentary majority, it cannot bear the burden of constant pressure that can be paid if there are no real possibilities. Does anyone come out here with a number? He says where's the money? Give me that money, 95 ministers! Here, now I'm asking you, and I can't oblige you. Find out in ten days, with this commission, the possibility of paying off in a year. Is there that possibility? Desires are possible, everyone has the right to want what they want, it's not illegal to want. What's real? Like I wouldn't want to get rid of it right now. And what am I to blame for the foreign savings that come here all the time? And I have some foreign savings - the rest. But I'd like them to charge, here I don't ever have to. But if they're going to charge for what we can make a decision here, let's make a decision today: Parliament has denied that two years' salary, and I don't have any other questions, here I am going to Social Services? Don't demagogue here as far as this is possible, as it is. I ask you, who stole money from those years when they disappeared? Niko one spent it in a bar, no one burned it, they disappeared. Where'd they go? A vast majority in Slovenia. They're buying companies here today. Why, I repeat, this country does not go into arbitration with Slovenia to ask where our money is! With Serbia, it doesn't matter who he is, whatever state he stole! What are we afraid of? So the essence of the whole story is here that, well, those SNSD MPs don't let it be worth it, they're against everything. That's not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15629	Nobody said that. Let's go, Reverend Marković. Wait a minute, you'll have, you'll have one more, you'll have one more, you'll have one more.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15630	... You know who's supposed to say it and who's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15631	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15632	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I, my replica refers in fact not to one previous but several previous discussions, in terms of which I believe there are quite demagogy in these previous discussions which are all on the trail that representatives of this category present today, so old foreign savings, are sort of courting because it is now popular and could be useful in 2008 when the election year is and when local elections are approaching. I want to say that I think that this is one of, here I'm going to let myself say, privileged categories in society, with which the Council of Ministers and this Parliament had serious fun and seriously focused on these issues by the fact that the law and the fact that the measures we've heard today have been taken and that act seriously and responsibly, so that something really wants to be done, that something wants to be done. My reply is that today, by discussing this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Old Foreign Savings, we are in a situation that, in fact, all society and the entire Budget of BiH or entity budgets should focus only on the fact that there is only a problem in one category of population, forgetting that there are a million other problems in this society in various categories of society. Someone here mentioned today, says: Let's raise the price of cigarettes, I don't know, from two to five marks or euros. So 96 is now a blow to other human rights of other people, meaning they had no idea at all at the time that this foreign savings was gone. So now I, if I buy cigarettes or pay for gas or some luxury goods, should be punished in some way in this society to make it... peaceful. I think that these are not appropriate, an appropriate way to solve this problem and really focus – we have a bill on amendments and amendments to the law, we have the Commission's opinion – and to bring this discussion to an end and to come to some conclusion that will be meaningful and that will make... its own sense throughout this story. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15633	Dear Ambassador Okolić: replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15634	Well, I didn't, I don't think Mr. Jovičić came after me, if he'd replicated it to me, but, I don't know, maybe some of the others, I didn't mention anywhere that he was guilty of any party, so let's get this straight. But what I'm saying is that I fully support him to open the question and run for agenda: who stole it if he stole it? So, I don't know if he stole or didn't, and to get into this problem where the money is, why no concession has been made with the states that had their banks in BiH, so in that sense he has my support. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15635	Thank you. If there's no more replicas? Novaković's replica, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15636	You see, I wanted to replicate Mr. Jovičić to the conclusion that he was not guilty that there was no saving. Of course, Mr. Jovičić, if it wasn't your fault, it wasn't your fault, and it wasn't your fault! And none of the MPs here are to blame. We are here victims of manipulation of various councils of ministers and different governments in this country. And in that it is all the trouble that the Council of Ministers and Government serve us one story here, and we are the ones who are then behind or not behind these stories and coming into conflict with these people, and those who need to seriously do their job don't do it. And the meaning of my discussions and some colleagues here was in this direction to take this seriously and locate the problem, where it is, and not here in Parliament. Here in Parliament, it's not a problem. Of course, yes, dear lady, the state is also taking over that foreign savings guarantee. And this country, when it came into existence, took something. And whoever is currently ruling, when it happens, also assumes it as his obligation, whether it's him or not in '91, '92, 2001 or 2006. And this is how I discussed it when it was the Council of Ministers who made up the parliamentary majority in which the SDS was. That's what these people know in Parliament sitting here. I was also discussing and opposed to then adopted law because it was not seriously proposed. And this previous one wasn't seriously suggested, which also suggests that there's obviously still room to work on. And nothing more than a suggestion to take this seriously and find that space, if it's there or if it's not there, to tell people: no. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15637	Thank you. Next for discussion in line: Prodanović, Dokić, Hadži Jovan Mitrović, Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15638	Mr. Chairman, thank you for calling me in the end. By the way, I have reported, first of all, to state my position under the authority of the chairman of the Finance Commission and the budget of Mr Bahtić, who is justifiably absent from this part of the session. I would like to say that after hearing these discussions of all participants, I am convinced that our proposal for a commission at the 18th session, since 19.12. last year, is a perfectly correct path.... Parliament. So we unanimously rejected the principles of the bill and suggested that the House not adopt it for the following reasons. The reasons for the refusal of the bill are multiple in relation to the provisions which address the question of the verification of old foreign savings. It should be pointed out that the verification procedure under the applicable law has already been completed, thus the proposed provisions are unacceptable. Also, the proposal for the application of agreed interest is technically inconclusive and unreal. During the decision-making process, the commission also took care of the need for macroeconomic stability in BiH, and from the point of view of other budget users at all levels of government. Compared to the proposed deadline for returning the claim on this basis, on this basis for five years, the commission unanimously accepted the conclusion, and the House of Representatives proposes that it be adopted in the following text: the Council of Ministers of BiH with resolute entity ministries should try to find a solution to the issue of equalising the deadlines for the return of claims based on old foreign savings in the territory of the whole of BiH, in order to respect the principles of equality of all persons in this area. In the end, I'd like, first of all as an MP, to say my opinion now, if I could just take a few minutes. I must say that what we have proposed and what was part of the debate and part of the serious arguments presented by the Deputy Minister, a number of MPs who have discussed very seriously, is only possible at this moment. What I look forward to is that BiH shortens the payment deadline for old foreign savings, respecting human -- in fact, I am truly complicit in the situation of hundreds of thousands or tens of thousands of those who have...... left without an old foreign savings -- but BiH through Parliament has passed laws and the implementation of this law shows that it is a serious state that has not violated macroeconomic stability for the past ten years. If we want to re-generate inflation, the chaotic state of this country, if we think we're telling you nice stories so that you'd be happy, to say such insecure things about this pay phone, that some very serious people have told you something, so do you think anyone serious can believe that! You can't put it in your mouth if one of the ministers or governors of the Central Bank of BiH told you what the most illiterate economic expert in this country couldn't do. You can't with that... you should respect if we're willing to listen to you, but you can't talk like that. If you want, it's reality, it's cruel, but in this country it's in the last 15, 17 years a lot of cruel things. Tens of thousands of deaths, hundreds of thousands of destroyed homes, millions of 98 displaced people and one catastrophic situation. We've taken over our duties, not by accident. This legislation has been done in accordance with our obligations to international institutions, according to the obligations the World Bank has asked us to do, the International Monetary Fund and monitoring and institutions that still have a very big influence in BiH. And don't tell me the bond is insecure paper! What's most certain now is that no one will ever fall into this country's mind to broadcast something and it doesn't have a cover for it. It also guarantees foreign exchange reserves, it guarantees, so the obligation of the country's budget of all levels, which is, after all, clear how much budget institutions can, anywhere, financially, to any percentage, be in debt. And I'll tell you one thing, you certainly know that, but nobody guarantees you right now, and now it doesn't guarantee you that in some bank, not to you, but to us, when we deposit money that in the event of bankruptcy and liquidation, it will be returned, even, even when we secure the deposit of funds we have at our disposal in those banks. So this moment is real. What is beautiful, here is beautiful – certainly I have been, so nine years in Parliament so far – and I know that it is best to say emotional things. That's what you, that's what everybody likes to listen to at home. That's the easiest thing for you in this House to say. And the most beautiful things you can say when you're an opposition, but I have to tell you, the best things in life don't come true. I understand that the best possible way to manipulate this story consists of a combination of semi-information, disinformation and a desire for the opposition to deceive, deceive listeners or participants in this story to get support. It's perfectly normal, but I've never seen an opposition in the world -- so speaking of myself -- now I'm not talking about the current opposition -- pay someone something. So our reality of this moment is like this, we have to accept it. What you're saying to me, what you're saying about deadlines, about this record, so come on, don't let us manipulate stories. Who can transfer money from one account to another? So let's process those stories of yours, identify them! Here's the story of government, of individuals, of banking... I don't rule out the possibility of a crime. But is it Mr Kasumović and Minister Vrankić's fault that 730 or 50 KM were recorded in this country, and not a million and 70,000? You're talking about research centres. Well, you don't have the capacity to normally implement the smallest plan as well as a huge number here of us. Let's not misinformed the public, so this measures such political pressures to say that someone is willing to be in office... and please do so in Parliament only in one other form repeats itself. We can't respect each other like that. And so, once again, it's just that story about those authorities that don't know. He knows the power of this country, whatever it is, as well as he can give to someone to stay at least in some trend of progress. And I'm glad it was 13 years, so nine years. I'm deeply convinced it's five or seven, but why would it bother anyone? But imagine now that someone told someone they'd pay in a year, so it would all be over, or five years from now. I'm sorry, maybe you don't like this. I can tell a different story, deceive, talk. I'm not even talking about that '91 period, you understand, or anything. There must have been some terrible things going on here, but it's not the keeper of your savings books or these keys to these, what's called, the bank register was no minister of any government, here I am now not talking about this one. So much and thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15639	Thank you. 99 Just a little bit with the replicas. So Živković, Novaković, Jovičić cracked the replicas. The honourable MP Lijanović remains a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15640	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15641	All right, Erić, let's do it. Wait a minute. Before you, Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15642	Replica co-worker Prodanović and his colleague Marković. There was a reference to the protection of the right to smoke. I have not seen legislation anywhere in the world that protects the rights of smokers but, in fact, vice versa: that protects non-smoking rights. Because cigarettes, and they say, are harmful to health. They produce addiction and all the legislative bodies in the world are struggling to protect people from this addiction. It is evident, and these are no misinformation, that this box of cigarettes in front of the manufacturer's factory costs 5 marks more than in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15643	And what do you replicate?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15644	A replica about saying that excises aren't the source of money to pay off old foreign currency savings.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15645	Who mentions excises?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15646	So we need money, we need money to pay off the old foreign savings because it's said there's no money. So I'm talking about where we need to secure, where we need to secure the money. So that's where we lose 500 million marks of money a year. We will have to do this when we join the EU because it will be one of the conditions. But why don't we do it today, why would we lose the next eight years 4-5 billion marks and do it. And, Mr. Prodanović, verification? Why the verification in the first place? There's an obvious debt in banks. The legislator is obliged to record the debt and pay people back, inform them to come to the banks and take over, to take over their money. The representative of the association spoke about what verification means. Sign your statement, hand over the booklet to accept some conditions, and it is logical why people would give up their rights if, on the other hand, they had the judgments of the International Court that gave them this! I don't think it's correct to say it's an opposition that wants to vote. I'm not asking the opposition to vote this. Well, I guess I can get the numbers together and see that it can't be. I expect the ruling majority to have understanding here and to find ways to rule and laws that are contrary to at least a little closer. Thank you. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15647	Wait a minute, Erić first asked for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15648	...to say that after this discussion the opposition had no need to speak, here we are not even going to talk. Please really find a solution that we will support so that these people don't bother us anymore, that they don't torture themselves or us.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15649	Dear Member Marković. Replication, second.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15650	Well, when Mr Lijanović is so well understood in economic and financial budgets and if he had such good financial proposals, economic programmes and plans for voters and for this society, I am surprised that there are now seven but there are one MPs in this parliament. If you really know so well that you're calculating everything that's better for a society, which is better for a particular category of population, then I guess that's what voters were supposed to reward in the elections, not to lecture us here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15651	The Prodanović should've, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15652	Chairman, I don't like to replicate at all, but I'll say one thing. I guess the competent ministries have determined how to verify something. In this country, let's not forget, there's been a war since '92. Until '96. A year. In what way is saving these sad people, where they went and how, it's hard to say. That would be much better said by those who took part in it. I've never taken part in it, nor have I any argument. Surely, if there is any other data, it is important for this country, in terms of responsibility, processing, and all that is done or misused. But the only possible way in this situation is verification. So, what I'm sure is that the relevant proven savings of citizens, the old foreign currency savings of BiH citizens, is safe and as recorded. The second question is what you say about the transfer of rights. Don't manipulate it, don't manipulate it! Seven or eight years ago, it was very lucrative to sell foreign currency savings. The story is this: Is someone
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15653	Please keep your voice down there in the greenhouse.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15654	By coerced him into doing it, and does whoever forced him now have to answer? Don't talk about how this was prescribed, done this or that. It is quite clear that it is possible to determine all of this 101 today but it is not the subject of this debate, the stories, how we can in the best possible way damage people who have had their old foreign savings in the banks of BiH. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15655	Wait a minute. Kalabić, Lijanović, right? Lijanović first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15656	I just wanted to make it clear that I'm the first time in the House of Representatives and that these seven terms, which I've been offered, I don't have a chance before the next elections and I believe that in the next election we'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15657	... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15658	Here, I draw the conclusion since I'm not a smoker, but it goes in the direction that we're going to have the right to take money from these people who smoke. As soon as we know that a man smokes, I have the right to stick it in his pocket, because that money belongs to us, because he's the one who used them for cigarettes. There, we'll treat it that way. The other thing is, we're gonna treat this country with a huge amount of money that no one's gonna spend. We're collecting cigarettes three times more, and it's going to triple, and they're going to run even more to buy them. That's how it's supposed to be, like they can't wait to pick it up and... it's not like that. A colleague also said that this situation is not so simple and that we cannot treat it without serious and I would remind you that all the groups supported by counterpart Lijanović and at the same time... all ended up under the tent, so it would not be good to depend on some of their support, because it was unserious support.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15659	I didn't hear that. Dear Ambassador Zorić. Replic or what? Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15660	No, it's more of a replica. It's looking for a replica. I don't like this way of making divisions in this home on such an important issue as old-fashioned foreign savings. So it's mentioned here several times: here, the opposition or opposition is the protector of the old virgin savings, and these gods are not in power. I belong to a party that is both in the past term and in this one in the ruling majority. And in the last term, we tried several times to solve this issue. The club, which I was in charge of at the time, has also supported these amendments and additions to the laws that brought this to five years, 102 and it is very well known to these people from the associations. However, the way they are presented by the legislator of this law to us here, this is not acceptable to me. First of all, I am surprised that the chairman did not give a warning because here, my colleague Lijanović often advertises certain product brands, especially cigarettes, which I do not think is allowed to work in Parliament. And I'm now wondering if he has any of this personal interest in constantly showing some kind of product here, and thus advertising these products. I don't think it's a good thing to work in Parliament. Parliament is a place where laws are passed that will make everyone live better. I have been and remain on the side of the old foreign currency savings that they are being compensated but, well said Mr. Prodanović, in agreement with those who can do it, not those who can't do it. Here, I'm about to make a calculation: can it be in four years, five years, six years, in which way and then do it. You remember my discussions from last call to this house when I was talking, so let's, including me, take from these banks all the savings roles, when the state can and can, and we'll degrade these, so let's let's just wait 10-15 or 16 years for those who now have something in those accounts. So, I underline, I will never change my mind on this matter, but if it creates a division of the opposition that is God's protector of everything, of all the socialities in this country, and the ruling boasts and who do not want to solve any problems, or old foreign savings or anything else, then it won't be good. And I think the Association of Old Foreign Savings made a mistake that it didn't go for sure. And what does that mean? This means that people from the parliamentary majority should be found who will propose this law and agree with the Council of Ministers. I don't think it's going to help itself much this way because, I say, they have my vote for all their problems but you need to cooperate with those who can solve their problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15661	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dolić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15662	Here to propose to the Home leadership that the SNSD colleagues try to provide transcripts from the last call of this home when this issue is discussed and you will see that then SNSD MPs are far more committed to what the opposition stands for today, that this is a cat cough compared to what they advocated. And here's proof of that is that Mr. Nikola Špirić has also filed an appeal to the Constitutional Court on this matter. So, in the meantime, just changing the roles, I understand what they're talking about, and how they're speaking from another position to the previous term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15663	As far as I can tell, there's no more replicas. Then we'll continue the discussions. So, honourable MP Dokić, then Hadži Jovan Mitrović, then Križanović. Here you go. 103
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15664	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, here, and I must begin my discussion with two dissatisfactions. One dissatisfaction that we have turned this debate, a very serious debate, into an interpartial bickering and it is really not good and it is only proof that we adapt to day-to-day political needs, not essential things. None of the parties here can be accused or commended in particular. If you look at the period, and this question is unresolved, here, if we forget the period of war, and that whole 17 is 18 years, over the 18 years, all the parties here that exist, perhaps with some exceptions, here are Lijanović, were also in opposition and position. So they all had a chance to score if someone thought this story was a point. This story isn't meant to be a point to anyone. And this is the obligation of the state, the great commitment of the state, and here are the individuals, it is little to say, that basic human rights are at risk. Here, I will now, I have not dealt with this question, I must confess, but I know very tragic human fates related to this narrow question. I know people who had big money under their foreign exchanges and old foreign savings, they were in a position... and they had to go into surgery, and they couldn't get those funds for those things. We have to admit that over a long period of time, those responsible are those who have been responsible, here we all have changed in that responsible position, not behaving responsibly, and I have not, I am convinced, come up with, how can I say, sometimes a minimum of flexibility to take this issue very, very seriously. I must say, I'm also dissatisfied with the rhetoric of foreign savings representatives. I think they've done themselves more harm than good. In this serious matter, it's not worth fingertips to anyone, it needs to be very, very patient and look for a solution. I can understand their anger and mood, I can truly understand and it seems to me that most MPs understand it and there is no need here to party anyone to defend themselves from anything. I also have to point out that fact, someone mentioned that in some period past it was very profitable to sell those old foreign currency... I have to say that it wasn't profitable for those who were forced to sell it, but it was profitable for those who bought it. So it's one completely wrong approach to approach this problem, and probably, it's brought about by emotion, not reason. When you think about it, for sure, then you'd give up on that, on that approach. Look, today we've heard a lot of controversial data and what has been done in the past says that this problem has not been seriously approached. Today, we heard from the deputy minister that there's about 700 million KM in this old foreign exchange savings facility. Look, in 2006, this parliament passed a law that states in Article 3 that it is a billion and 979. Don't these two information tell you about our seriousness when this issue is on the agenda and that's why I, Mr. Chairman – you have helped me a little, and I wanted to comment –.... very concerned when you read my name on this committee. I'm not running away from any responsibility, and I always comply with the decisions of the institution where I belong, but I think that this commission, given this big problem, here's the only thing that points to a huge problem, that it won't be able to do the job and that we can just be the object of the attack. This committee with the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat that you have made available to us, this serious issue is not in a position to resolve. And I'm afraid that should be reconsidered, so it won't be a delay. 104 But to go back to what... how I see a way out of this situation and how to look for it. In other words, if we start from the discussions of the Deputy Minister, respecting that institution, and then the functions of individuals, then we are not far off to solve this problem. Here, I'm quoting him now: it's small funds for the state. And he suggests: to consider, to reduce the time limit of nine years proposed, which is existing under this law. Something similar is suggested in this law that's on the agenda. I also have to be clear, given that I've never known this issue enough before, I couldn't commit myself to this law at this point. There are a lot of those members who are calling for some members, and not all of them here, I'm not sure if it's possible to realize. But if you look at some basic things, here are the proposals that are similar to what the minister, or Deputy Minister, said. And here it is suggested to cut back, and the deputy minister said we should think about it. The legislator himself left one reserve, and according to this proposal he made himself, and I would support... his proposal, or his proposal to conclude it, but he would necessarily have to be extended. Namely, he asks for an ad hoc commission to be formed for talks with the Association of Foreign Foreign Savings, which would be drawn up by a novice and one representative from the two strongest parliamentary parties. I don't think this commission can finish its job, much like I was talking about that commission that I'm on, without a representative of the Council of Ministers. So, to be representatives of the Council of Ministers and to be someone else from Parliament, not just three of them from Parliament, if we really want to, and I know for a long time that all MPs see this as a big, difficult issue, but if we exclude it from those daily-political needs and proofs. Next, you see, Parliament has reached its conclusion, I will not now read what it says, the chairman has read something from it, and in the commission's task is something like what the Association of Old Foreign Savings has suggested, which is to check... foreign accounts. So, and here is the mandate of this committee to do so, only I ask the question: How will she do it, is there any strength? So, as you can see, here on several sides are similar guidelines and similar views, and so it seems to me that today we shouldn't even plead on this law, to accept this conclusion by the legislator of the law on the establishment of this commission, extended by representatives of the Council of Ministers and by some other criteria. Are there from each entity one representative from the parliamentary majority of each entity, or the two largest from the parliamentary majority? When I was about to say this, I immediately saw that other one would be PDP. Then we'd all be members of that group. I wouldn't want to be in that group, but why would someone from the opposition not be? I mean, this question really shouldn't be shared on the issue of positions and opposition. And that within some foreseeable time, that within some reasonable time, this commission then suggests a way to address this very important issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15665	Thank you. Correction of the false allegation: Honorable Ambassador Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15666	Kolega Dokić said all parties represented in this home were both in opposition and in a position in the past term, except for Lijanović. That's not true. Lijanovics were also in most of the year 2000 to 2002. _________(?) 105 [[no microphone turned on]] In the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15668	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Hadži Jovan Mitrović for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15669	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, today we had a few laws on the agenda that dealt with the protection of human rights, among other things, here's this law. We had a proposal for a law on denationalisation and, when I compare these two laws, I ask myself how we're going to solve this law, how are we going to solve that population, if we don't really approach this problem that happened to us and dates back to here in '91. A year. I, what I would say, is this law that is proposed, no different from who, whether it's from opposition or position, that it's possible and that it can be realized in five years. I'm sure it's possible in a much shorter time if we were to be honest and watch from the position that we're in their position. I think that here in Parliament, and even in the Council of Ministers, there are few people who are in that position, where these people are, who are begging today how to solve this problem and their issues. And there are more and more people, which I could see and where I'm disappointed, that they have in their accounts, that they have managed to secure hundreds of thousands of marks from the fee! And, I'm sure, I'm getting more and more sure, when I look at today's discussion that I'm probably not going to experience that we're going to solve this problem. How do people make more money than fees than the job they do? How about this problem today when we discuss, this, this is one of the problems, there are really many of them, I happened to watch a show where there was also a deputy minister and president of the association and Mr Lijanović, etc. I agree and that's the problem with coming back, but we've started to solve that problem, we're working it out. There are abuses in these things. You have people who have solved the question in many places, you've built them houses, they're not coming back, and they've solved the question in cities and live in cities. We've invested huge funds, and we haven't solved this problem. I say this all in favour of being honest and wanting to resolve this issue – not to look at the position and opposition – this could, this law today, immediately, be accepted. And why won't we solve it and we won't be able to solve it? I think one of the indicators is that the institutions don't work with us. I said that on many occasions here and in many places and below that they don't work, don't do it, no matter what people say. They don't look back at the D.A.'s office or the judiciary or anyone. And they're ready to turn up the way they did. I'm putting myself in a position to be in their position: 70 years of living, working, investing money, and eventually, a cop comes and goes! Why doesn't he go after a gentleman who pays a mile of asfvalt highway 22 million marks? Why doesn't it go against a gentleman who works his way, almost, in Srebrenica and Bratunac by a million and some marks? Which is far, far, far lower! Why doesn't he go after the gentleman where the auditor is in charge? He says why the prosecutors don't do it, where he says about the cost of building the way of the Klašnica – Gradiška, I don't know, where 106 outside of the Public Procurement Act is increased, I don't know, 150%. No one's reacting at all. There are sources of these funds, if you'd like to be honest. And he took Mr. Novaković's word from me. Right, is it too much of a problem for us to give the building 220 million? I don't say it for political reasons, I don't need any votes, I won't get them here. I'll get them where I've been getting them so far and I haven't gotten them for this reason. Gentlemen, one more thing. It is true that these people are trying to get rid of the old foreign savings, but quite thought out: one other round of people bought 50% of that old foreign currency savings. It's in one part of help, unfortunately, and in the other part there's serious crime. Companies were purchased that later ended up in bankruptcy. Is not the source of funding for this population and by those companies where governments finance companies private, where private businesses have bought businesses, pay them electricity to function and work. I gave that file to the D.A. never answered. This is an example of the polling plant where so far 30 million marks have been paid by the government to the Litvanac to function. And then she declared this state to Mrs. Litvanka that she was the manager of the year. We have a horse, a horse we have here in this country that we can make such a manager. Take it, declare the manager who buys the company, succeeds, does something, and has state benefits and others. It's a huge resource here to get rid of this. I honestly don't think for five years, much less, and for this reason I will support this law and support all the conclusions that go in the direction of resolving this issue without any political manipulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15670	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Križanović has come to order. Replica. First of all, Kalabić, I apologize. It's not, it's not, it's the other one...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15671	Here's a very short one. I'm just going to fill in an esteemed colleague, Jovan Hadža Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15672	Wait a minute, wait a minute, I wasn't following. If it's a third, please, someone will then, then you can answer the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15673	Here, I'll take the opportunity to discuss that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15674	But before that, Križanović, then you. How about that?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15675	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 107
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15676	Let's just listen to each other for a second. Križanović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15677	Today, a colleague of Bajazit, in the context of a debate on another topic, said that it is possible to classify our discussions on those responsible and popular. Of course, I have... opportunities for other classifications. But here I won't dare and talk about who was popular today, who was responsible! But for me, the most difficult combination is irresponsible and unpopular discussion or discussion, especially behavior. You see, in this context, from a whole series of this history of old foreign savings, I can say that so far the behaviour of the BiH state towards this problem has been both irresponsible and unpopular. It's unpopular to the 30th Association, as far as I know, thousands of savings, who seek their rights, their property, their human rights. It is irresponsible that the state has approached this problem only under pressure from the Constitutional Court. It is irresponsible to bid third time with this law. Thirteen, nine, whether it'll be four, five years, etc.? Which is not an esteemed conclusion of this home that after the adoption of this law which is now in force are not the ones that have been analysed by real additional sources for repaying the debt... of old foreign currency savings. For me, the highest priority is the reconciliation of the old foreign currency savings that comes, unfortunately, on the agenda ten years after the war. Again, I say, not by the responsibility and conscience of the state, but by force, but by, say, building a highway, because it is money that will be returned to our citizens and our citizens will spend that money in BiH. You see, the other thing is here, unfortunately, we've never opened the topic, why is it the fastest and best, say the best, privatization of banks, expressively, without any problems. And why is the question not asked: Why did these bank balances not suggest a commitment to the old foreign currency savings before privatisation? However, it is another issue that would not contribute to solving this problem. I wouldn't repeat what my colleagues were saying. We will support this first reading of this law, the bill's proposal, that is, amending and supplementing the law, out of sincere conviction that this should be resolved. But not to get to the unrealistic, provided they are, that there are unrealistic and bad solutions here, which, at the very end of the season, will be of no use to savings if they are unrealistic and unreal. But first of all, we're going to do it as a pressure on the Council of Ministers to make sure in this follow-up this procedure they're really doing their best to find...real additional sources for the return of foreign savings, and to cut deadlines, and to give firm guarantees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15678	Thank you. Here is more for the discussion, dear Ambassador Kalabić has and I have no more reports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15679	I will indeed, although I did not mean to speak, use the discussion because they have their right to discussion, because the SNSD MPs have tried all the time to say that at no point do we remember to endanger the rights of these people, or their right to what they are looking for, and that is really undeniable. The only thing we've tried to separate this from some kind of demagogy, some 108 daily-political story and something that can't produce results. We may like it or not like it, but it can't, I'll really support it. I think my colleague Jašarević also said that Mr. Prodanović had a really serious debate and a serious conclusion and a determination to endure it. To really endure it, and I think that there is a key to the solution and in this kind of pressure to clear the issue; and there were also people from the Council of Ministers and we said that we would really try to clear up these dilemmas that have appeared today. And we are personally interested in these dilemmas around both deadlines and new moments, about new, new data, and we think that there is space. We think that there's this space safe and, unlike many, I have to be honest and say that I'm a mild optimist that it's not so black, as it may seem to solve this situation, and that it's going to be something better than it might seem to someone at this point. And I think that the Commission should support this conclusion, and that, in this way, seriousise the Council of Ministers to deal with this, to really get into the mass of this data, to come to a real solution in the coming period, which... certainly must be from the existing. No, it's our obligation to these people. I think it is necessary to calm down passion and what someone said is that dialogue is done between those to whom there is a commitment and those who are bound at this point can and should carry out. That's what I was saying. And I wanted to take advantage of the right to a replica before, so I didn't get, with respect to respect for being second, since my esteemed colleague, Jovan Hadži Mitrović, spoke about a mile of highway to RS, and probably with justification and called on the police to direct himself to those people who did what they did there and, I think, that Mr. Mitrović's vice president there. It's a man of a little poorer health, and I wouldn't want any police methods to be applied to him, because he's not a man of any power to endure it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15680	That's wise. Hadji Jovan Mitrović: replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15681	So I don't know what counterpart Kalabić wanted to say about the minister of traffic and connections. I absolutely don't stand behind anyone if they committed a crime, no matter who it was, whether it was the vice president of the party that I'm in and wouldn't talk like this if I were behind it all. That's why I'm inviting everyone to question me first, including the others. It won't scare me for sure that I'll stop at the party to say what, which I think is good and what should be done and where I should be standing up, as far as thieves and criminals are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15682	Thank you. I don't have any more applications to discuss and I'm closing this debate and I'm warning the House that we're on the 15th point of the agenda. We have four points left on the agenda, which if reasonably without too much discussion within a reasonable period of time we could end up, and move on to the voting stage. In case we can't do that, we'll interrupt the session, and then we'll see how we continue. That is why I call on MPs not to discuss these points at the next four points of the agenda, if they do not have too much need. Moving to the 15th point of the agenda: 109 Ad. 15. Proposal for a Commission Conclusion on Transport and Communication At the 18th session we brought in after a long debate on the Public Television System's work report, over four and a half hours, I think it was a very good debate and ordered our commission to propose conclusions. I hope you have those conclusions ahead of you. If you don't, I'll tell you again. If you have, please take a good look at them and open a discussion with two conclusions, with the first conclusion under a) and b) proposed. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Here you go. If there are no reports, I'll conclude the debate and thank you for your expedition. We're going to the 16th point, Ad. 16. Discussion on the subject: Council of Europe and its activities
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15685	Dear colleagues, I will respect the president's proposal, and I will indeed strive with as little words as possible to bring my judgment on this matter. In fact, when I read the report, I was long in the dilemma whether it was the report on the work of the Delegation or the report on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. In fact, most of this report concerns the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, not the work of our delegation. So in the first part we have basic data on the Council of Europe and maybe this is the most important part of this report, because we have the opportunity to see what it looks like and what the composition of the Council of Europe is, and then, of course, our delegation. Later, it means who the members are, who the deputies are. I checked with a deputy member of the SDS Club and he didn't participate in this report, nor was he invited when this report was done, which I think, slightly speaking, makes no sense. But good. I guess it's an integral part of our story of position and opposition, even in the Council of Europe to know and to see it. 110 If we come from conclusions and recommendations, then we will see that the basic conclusion in the first position is that our delegation has actively participated in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Then, immediately in the next position, it is said: that no member of the delegation participated in committee meetings held between the four meetings, and then it is later said that the work of the delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly was, to some extent, difficult because of the inability to elect the head of the delegation, so now what has not been done, because we did not have a head of delegation. And then, there goes the list of things we haven't done and what we need to do, so I got the impression that this active participation isn't really active. In the first part of the regular session, on 22 and 26 January 2007, none of our delegation spoke. A meeting of the Standing Committee on 16 March, no one from our delegation has spoken. The second part of the regular session, from 16 April to 20 April, was registered by Mr Izetbegović and Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović but did not get a chance to turn around due to a large number of reported ones. Mr Mladen Ivanić addressed the budget of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on 24 May in Belgrade, so the topic is not much for us. At the third part of the regular session, on June 25th and 29th, Mr Mladen Ivanić, Mrs Hadžiahmetović and Mr Bakir Izetbegović addressed it, and especially in the statements, at least I could read it here, Mr Izetbegović and Mr Ivanić came up with a visible disunity in the delegation's views, and the question is: Is it better that they did not discuss it the way they discussed it? So I must say that, with all due respect to the colleagues who make up the delegation, which I do, which I personally have a positive opinion of each one – I do not think that as a delegation, it can stand to conclude that they have actively and successfully presented BiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. At least not from what I could see here, unless there were some activities that weren't found in this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15686	Thank you. If there are no more reports, honourable Ambassador Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15687	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very short. Through the text of this report or information, as we will call it, certain attitudes and conclusions are eventually made, but there is no one to do it, really here. So, the Ministry of Human Rights: certain activities for the appointment of our candidates for members in certain committees, and finally, here is the delegation itself, saying that it is necessary to ensure greater flexibility and technical assistance for the members of the delegation. There are still a lot of details here about what to do to make it a better presentation, so that our delegation can work, but really what kind of professional assistance to provide, more professional and technical assistance, and who should provide it! Perhaps, in that direction, if some conclusions were proposed that we as Parliament be bound by someone who should do so, so that the delegation could do its part, then indeed this report could have some extreme benefit for that delegation by Parliament. This is how it's left in the realization that something needs to be done. Who needs what, when? There's no writing here. As a result, this report is indeed lacking in this respect in concrete follow-up.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15688	Dear Member Marković. Here you go. 111
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15689	Well, here I am, respecting the weather, going to try to say very briefly, because here in these discussions there have been some incorrect allegations in the sense that the members of the delegation have not reported, that they have not actively participated in the work of the Council of Europe. If you read carefully, you could see that there was an active participation of members of delegations and with regard to the adoption of certain resolutions in the Council of Europe, that some other members of the delegation were involved in the discussion, some amendments challenged, others supported. So it wasn't exactly quiet there. And what was a difficulty in the work of the delegation is, above all, a non-election situation in which we could not choose the head of the delegation, which we did only seven days ago, and we believe it will make a much better contribution to the work of the delegation, and in addition to telling the official Parliament that we are on the delegation, the Permanent Delegation of BiH to the Council of Europe agreed, so at that meeting seven days ago, to determine the methods of rotation of the heads of delegations, so both in this and in other delegations that exist. And we will propose that it be included in the Rules of Procedure on the work of permanent BiH delegations. And what represents another difficulty and a problem in the functioning of this delegation is exactly what you said, not being present on the committees of the Council of Europe. The Committee has a total of 10. We 10 members and deputies are in each of these committees: somewhere we are a member, somewhere in the deputy, so far there have been no calls for members and deputies in the delegation to attend these committees. The reasons are different, starting with that there are not enough funds to finance it, because the committees are usually held somewhere in some European cities, until we get some material before the session begins. It is certain that our participation, if possible, would improve the quality and efficiency of our work during the Council of Europe session itself. So this thing and the problem is at the College and those who approve of the entire participation of the delegation and going to all these sessions, and this report is kind of a dreary display of what we did in 2007, with all the difficulties that have been mentioned here and, of course, a proposal for conclusions on what else should be done and, I say, by choosing the head of the delegation, we hope that the work will improve and improve the efficiency of the delegation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15690	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15691	So let me just remind you that although this report bears the name Report on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly Delegation, the purpose of this report, among other things, was to present to this Parliament what the Council of Europe has done in the past and to open a debate on the Council of Europe itself and BiH's participation as a full member of the Council of Europe. I will just remind you that in Resolution 1575 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the political dimension of the Budget of the Council of Europe, all national parliaments are invited, to hold a special debate on the subject of the Council of Europe and its activities at least once a year. In order to discuss, or fulfil this obligation, this report on the content of the four sessions of the Parliamentary Assembly has been prepared, and as part of this report is also the report on the work of the Delegation. 112 So this is the first time that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, to say, faces the Council of Europe on the agenda. So, the theme of the Council of Europe's work and, of course, this debate should also result in BiH's work, i.e. the activities of BiH in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I must say that from experience in the work of this delegation, I will not talk about the delegation itself, here you have a report on the activities of the delegation, of certain members of the delegation, but I will mention only that there is a need for the Parliamentary Assembly to at least get familiar with the agenda of the meeting, that is, the debate that will take place on the agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, just as I appreciate that there is a need for every MP in this Parliamentary Assembly to receive a report on the work of the delegation, after each session, and not that these reports only come to the members of the delegation, because I appreciate that in some way, I would encourage us as full members of the Council of Europe as well as mutually, i.e. the feedback of the mechanisms of institutions, etc. The Council of Europe for all processes, i.e. building one system of democracy, respect for human rights and all those issues that are primarily in the domain in the focus of the Council of Europe's preoccupation. And in this sense, I appreciate that it would be a good idea for this Parliamentary Assembly of this year, i.e., from this time on, debates at least, i.e. in this sense, and I propose that, before each meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the agenda set out in the Joint Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe be delivered to at least the co-workers of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, that the work report be held during the meeting, and four times a year, that the work report be delivered to all the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and that, in the spirit of these obligations arise, these Resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, at least once a year, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH deals with issues and topics of work of the Council of Europe. Of course, with an integral part of that story can be the work of the delegation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15692	Thank you. It would be good to forward these conclusions in writing to the colleges that, frankly speaking to me as chairman of the NATO delegation, we have set these matters in our Rules of Procedure and it is known after which time the reports, or information, to whom information is sent, etc. I do not see any reason why it is also a delegation in the Council of Europe that does not resolve it with its rules of procedure on work. No Niko will ban the delegation from giving these agenda points to anyone here and thus being considered. And I think any delegation in its rules of procedure can handle it. It is not necessary for this parliament to vote on these conclusions in such a way, but if you insist, please, then these conclusions to be brought here in writing, so that they can be made known before the vote. Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15693	Perhaps even on the back of what you, Mr. Chairman, say. I think this delegation is a very important delegation and I, as far as I know, every delegation is ad hoc formed. If he travels abroad to some meetings, he should submit his report immediately after the end of that trip. This is about... holding sessions quarterly, meaning four sessions a year, going on for a whole week, and I think that for those seven days... participation in the work of one 113 very important European institutions needs each time to submit a report on what has been current, what has been done by our delegation and the like.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15694	Thank you. I just want to warn the MPs. So we've created a task force here to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of this House. These things can be dealt with by these rules of procedure, and then, individually, each delegation, by its own rules of procedure, to resolve. To avoid today... voting on all these conclusions, we can thus get out of this situation. I'm asking you to take that into account and, if you suggest conclusions, you know, that's how things can be solved. If there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. And we move to the 17th point of the agenda: Ad. 17. Information on the authorisations issued for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products in 2006 We received information from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations on 16 November. The Joint Commission for Defence and Security is responsible for providing us with a Opinion on Information on 12 December. The Commission supported the Information. I'm opening a debate. I ask the promoters or MPs if they have any need to discuss this? If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. Moving to the 18th point of the agenda: Ad. 18. Proposal for appointing members of interparliamentary friendship groups – Proposer: Foreign Affairs Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15697	This is what we should do, Mr. Chairman, the sooner the better! This is what Parliament needs, but I am asking you, please, this Foreign Affairs Commission... It says that one colleague did not submit the survey, but that four colleagues provided answers, but said their answers are not in the material delivered to the commission and the commission felt that these MPs had shown no interest in participation in groups. So this is a little contradictory for me. Delivered by people and then without their guilt the material was not given to the commission and then the commission concluded that they were not interested. If they delivered, they are interested and, behold, I propose that we adopt this today, but that compared to these colleagues who showed interest, these are gentlemen: Jašarević, Lozančić, Izetbegović and Mitrović. If they didn't give up, they'd get involved in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-16-0.u15698	Thank you. Perhaps in the note I skipped to say that it was partly a debate on the commission itself, where we found that they did not actually show willingness for any group. There's also the House of Peoples. They have to adopt this in the same text. If they don't adopt the same text, they can report later to their colleagues and do so. So they didn't apply. Thank you. Is anyone else having a discussion? If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. And we move to the last, 19th, agenda point: Ad. 19. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan You know we took off this agenda last time because the motionary wasn't on the board. This time, the Commission has delivered its opinion on this agreement with the Proposer and, as you can see, the opinion is positive. I'm opening a debate. If there are no reports, I'll close the debate and we'll set time to vote at 6:45. I think it's time for everyone to rest and go to the polls. Shall we start voting? [[PAUZA]] In line with the conclusion of the previous session and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we move to a vote. First we vote item number one: The minutes from the 19th session of the House of Representatives, with the notice of the honourable MP Okolić trying to submit the minutes with the draft agenda. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 32, there was no "against", there were no "abstained". I find that we have adopted the record with this observation. We vote on the conclusion of Mr Bećirević: 115 To submit an updated list of outstanding questions by next session. Please prepare to vote on this conclusion. You can vote now! "For" 35, "against" was not, "abstained" was not. We're going to vote on the third item of the agenda. The college agreed that, practically, our report... The constitutional committees are not in place and that we should treat this this way. First, to vote on the amendment of our working group to the package, the proposal is to vote afterwards on all the amendments that MPs want to defend, or to declare Parliament. Please prepare yourselves. We are voting on a group of amendments proposed by our working group. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 26, "against" five, "abstained" four, with a sufficient entity majority. Amendments to the Working Group have been adopted. We're moving on to the other amendments. Dear Ambassador Dr. Ekrem Ajanović proposes an amendment. You've received a proposal for an amendment, so I don't read it. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" seven, "against" 22, "abstained" five. This amendment didn't get most of it. We are moving on to the amendments of MP Denis Bećirović. He asked to vote on all his amendments, except for the amendment X that was adopted. We're going to vote on amandman I.. moliti prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" five, "against" 27, "abstained" three. The amendment didn't go through. amandman II. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" five, "against" 26, "abstained" four. The amendment didn't go through. Amendment number III. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" five, "against" 26, "restricted" three. 116 Amendment III has not passed. Amendment IV. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" five, "against" 26, "restricted" three. This amendment didn't get most of it. We move to a statement on amandman v. moliti prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" five, "against" 23, "abstained" seven. Amendment V didn't get most of it. We're moving on to Amendment VI. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" five, "against" 23, "abstained" seven. Amendment VI did not go either. Amendment VII. You can prepare for the vote. Vote now! "For" five, "against" 25, "abstained" four. amandman vi did not receive support. Amendment VIII Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" six, "against" 27, "abstained" two. It is not Amendment VIII. He didn't get support. Amendment IX. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" eight, "against" 26, "restricted" one. The IX amendment has failed. That's how we exhausted Mr. Bećirović's amendments. We move on to the vote on amendments to the esteemed emissary Momčilo Novaković. Amendment I. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" five, "against" 24, "abstained" six. The amendment didn't receive support. 117 We move to the vote on Amendment II. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" four, "against" 21, "abstained" eight. amandman ii did not receive support. Amendment III. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" five, "against" 22, "abstained" eight. This amendment was not supported either. Amendment number IV. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" five, "against" 24, "abstained" six. Amendment IV did not receive support either. With this, we have exhausted the vote on all amendments. We are now moving to vote on the BiH Sport Law proposal in the second reading, with amendments to the working group that have been adopted. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 27, "against" six, "abstained" two, sufficient entity majority. I agree that we adopted the proposal for a law on sports in BiH in the second reading. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: Proposal for a law on wine, brandy and other products of grapes and wine. We vote on the report of our committee that adopted the amendments and then we vote on this law, because there are no new amendments. The promoter of the other amendments gave up his amendments. So we're voting on this law in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. I have been informed that he has given up, and we are now voting on the proposal for a law on brandy and wine in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! Please, the vote is in progress. "For" 26, "against" four, "abstained" four. Is there any need for us to repeat the vote? There's no need. I understand we've passed the Wine Act. Proposal for a law establishing an institution for the enforcement of criminal sanctions (second reading). There were no amendments. We're voting on this law. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! 118 "For" 26, "against" was not, eight "abstained", with enough entity majority – I find that we have passed this law. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents. There were also no other readings – the Commission accepted two amendments, which were contained in the Report and became an integral part of the amendment and – after that, there were no amendments. We're voting on this law in a second reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 29, there was no "against" five. I realize we've passed this law. We move to the seventh item of the agenda: the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 30, there was no "against" five. I'm realizing we've adopted. And we had as part of this agenda point: Mr Belkić's conclusion to vote on the Interresor Group Initiative to refer it to parliament as it reads in the Initiative. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 31, "against" was not, four "abstained". Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of BiH (first reading). Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 29, "against" was not, "abstained" six. I realize we passed this law in our first reading. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 30, there was no "against" five. I'm realizing we've adopted. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Fines of BiH (first reading) Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 31, "against" was not, "abstained" four. I realize we passed this law in our first reading. 119 Proposal for a law on denationalisation; it is voted in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 25, there was no "against" nine. I realize we passed this law in our first reading. We vote on a Commission proposal to open a public debate on this law in accordance with Article 114. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 33, "against" was not, "abstained" two. I realize we adopted that proposal. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Safety Act (first reading). Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 29, there was no "against" five. I realize we passed this law in our first reading. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the VAT Act. I will remind you, this time, since it is a negative report from our commission, that we should vote on the report, or opinion. If the House accepts the Commission's opinion, the proposed law is considered rejected. In case we refuse our commission's opinion, this law returns to the Commission. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 23, "against" 10, "restricted" one. I find that this law has been rejected. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the settlement of liabilities based on the account of the old foreign currency savings. We have the same case as the previous law. We're voting on the opinion of our commission. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 24, "against" nine, "restricted" two. I find that opinion adopted, rejected this law. We have Mr. Lijanović's conclusion, which is before us, which is what you've got. Please prepare to vote on the conclusion. You can vote now! "For" 14, "against", 15, "restricted" four. This conclusion didn't get most of it. 120 We move to the 15th point of the agenda. Of course, at the last point, i.e. the 14th point of the agenda, I think it would be good to vote on the conclusion of our commission which proposed, to repeat this conclusion: the Council of Ministers of BiH with the restful entity ministries that, as soon as possible, an attempt should be made to find a solution to the issue of equalising the deadlines for the return of claims on the basis of old foreign savings in the territory of the whole of BiH, and in order to respect the principle of equality of all persons in this area. Although we voted for the opinion and with this conclusion, if you want to regulate it, then we believe that's what we've done. Thank you. Proposal for a conclusion of the Transport and Communication Commission on the examination of the Report. You've got two conclusions. We vote on both the conclusions in the package. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 31, "against" one, "abstained" three. I find that we have adopted these conclusions of our committee. Discussion on the subject: Council of Europe and its activities. We at the College didn't get the conclusions. We will glasati first to accept the report on the work of the Delegation, i.e. to receive knowledge of the Report of our delegation, and then we will vote on the conclusions proposed by Ms Hadžiahmetović. I ask you first to vote on the fact that we are receiving this report. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 25, "against" three, "abstained" six. I understand that we have received the report on the work of the delegation. Please, just one clue. Should we vote one by one in a package to vote on them? The conclusions read as follows: 1. At least once a year, a debate will be held on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which is a commitment under Resolution 1575 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. 2. Each session will be preceded by a draft agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to the College. This happens four times a year in order to initiate activities and discussions in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in case of need. 3. After each meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, a report on the work of the delegation will be submitted to all members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Please prepare for a statement in the package on these conclusions. You can vote now! "For" 30, "against" one, "abstained" four. I realize we've adopted these conclusions. 121 Information on the authorisations issued for the transport of arms and military equipment and dual-use products in 2006 I suggest we take this information to the knowledge. I ask Parliament to be determined accordingly. You can prepare for the vote. Vote now! "For" 33, "against" was not, "abstained" two. I understand we've received knowledge. We move to the 18th point of the agenda: Proposal for the appointment of members of interparliamentary friendship groups. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 32, "against" was not, "abstained" three. I find that we have adopted this proposal. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the establishment of a Bosnian-Pakistan Economic Commission. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 33, "against" was not, "abstained" two. I understand we've given consent to ratification. I thank all my fellow parliamentarians, representatives of the Council of Ministers, NGOs for the expedition at today's session. You will be biti in time of the next session of Parliament. Thank you. The seat is closed at 7.20 p.m.
