ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1118	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the media, I welcome you all and open the 11th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At today's session there are 13 delegates, of which four from the Bosniak people, four from the Croatian people and five from the Serb people. Mr Branko Zrno and Sulejman Tihić justified their absence because they were prevented from attending today's session. For the 11th session, I suggest the next 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 1st extraordinary and 10th session of the House of Peoples; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations (High Representative Act); 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations (High Representative Act); 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations (High Representative Act); 6. Report from the Commission from the College of the People's House on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 7. Proposal for an internal audit law in BiH institutions (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 2 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 9. Proposal for a law on sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Tax Act on additional value (first reading) – Proposer of Delegation Mladen Ivanić; 11. Proposal for a law establishing the Institute for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures (First Reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 12. Proposal for a law on agriculture, nutrition and rural development (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act of BiH (first reading) – Proposer of the House of Representatives; 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 15. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 16. Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Law (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 17. Proposal for a law on denationalisation (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 18. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of BiH (first reading) – Proposed delegates Ilija Filipović, Mladen Ivanić and Alma Čolo; 19. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) – Proposer of the House of Representatives; 20. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of BiH, police officers, civil servants and other employees in peace support operations and other activities abroad (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 21. Proposal for a Code of Conduct of Delegates and MPs (first reading) – Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 22. The Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Audited in 2006 of the following Institutions (a) the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, (b) the Office for Statistics of BiH, (c) the Central Election Commission of BiH, (d) the Institute of Standards, Measurement and Intellectual Property of BiH, (f) the Commission for the Protection of National Monuments of BiH, (g) the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of BiH, (h) the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH, (i) the Ministry of Security of BiH, (j) the Presidency of BiH, (k) the Regulatory Agency for Communications of BiH, (f) the Office for the Common Affairs of BiH, (g) the State Border Service of BiH, (n) the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of BiH, (h) the General Secretariat of the Council of BiH, Office of BiH, Office for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and Economic Relations of BiH, (q) the Ministry of Civil Affairs of BiH, (h) the Ministry of BiH, (f) the Ministry of Justice of BiH Department of BiH, the Ministry of BiH, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of BiH, the Ministry of BiH, the Ministry of the Ministry of BiH, the Ministry of the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH, the Republic of Bosnia and of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of Bosnia and of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of Bosnia and of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of BiH of BiH of BiH of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of BiH of Bosnia and of Bosnia and of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH Report of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' audit office on BHRT's 2005 and 2006 audit; 24. Report on the 2006 report on the implementation of the budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions; 25. Annual report for 2006 of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution; 26. Report on the participation of BiH Armed Forces members, police and state officials in peace support operations for the period from 1.3.2007 to 31.8.2007; 27. Appointment of a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board from the Bosniak people; 28. Information on the unauthorized production and marketing of intoxicating drugs in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the period 2005-2006, with trends for the first six months of 2007; 29. Information on the authorisations issued for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products in 2006; 30. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of interparliamentary friendship groups; 31. Proposal for a resolution on the fight against violence against women in the family – proposed delegate Dušanka Majkić; 32. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH – Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 33. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission for the Determination of Foreign Savings of BiH citizens on the accounts of domestic banks and branches in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer to the College of both homes of the PSBIH; 34. Proposal for a Conclusion on the establishment of an Ad hoc committee for the appointment of three Ombudsmans in the Ombudsman's Institute for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the House of Representatives; 35. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Economic, Trade and Technical Co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the State of Qatar; 36. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Vlada of Rumunija on co-operation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime; 37. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Cooperation in the field of Education, Culture and Sports between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Italy; 38. Giving consent to ratification of the European Convention on Citizenship; 39. Giving consent to ratification of the 1995 Agreement between the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Co-operation; 40. Giving consent to the ratification of the Development Cooperation Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden; 41. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement establishing a Mixed Cooperation Committee between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary; 4 42. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on police co-operation; 43. Giving consent to ratification of the Air Traffic Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the State of Qatar; 44. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Funding between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association (IDA) – Project for Agriculture and Rural Development; 45. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association (IDA) – Preparedness Project for Avian influenza 46. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association (IDA) – Additional financing for the Urban Infrastructure and Service Project; 47. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Russian Federation on the conditions of mutual travel between the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the citizens of the Russian Federation; 48. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the revision of the succession of bilateral agreements between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Poland; 49. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the revision of the succession of bilateral agreements between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Slovak Republic; 50. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the revision of the succession of bilateral agreements between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Czech Republic; 51. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro on co-operation in the protection of natural and civilization disasters; 52. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro on Co-operation in the fight against terrorism, organised crime, illicit drug trafficking, psychotropic substances and precursors, illegal migration and other crimes; 53. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development on Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement – Development and Forest Protection Project; 54. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the establishment of a Bosnian-Pakistan Economic Commission; 55. Giving consent to ratification of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development – Bijeljina Channelisation System; 56. Giving consent to ratification of the Loan Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development – Road Reconstruction Project; 57. Giving consent to ratification of the European Convention on Cross-border Cooperation between Territorial Communities or Protocol Authorities. Dear delegates, this is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples' College. Is anyone answering for a word? Here you go. Dear delegate Ibrahimpašić. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1120	...I would just ask why there is no agenda for my resolution,...which was on the verge of including this Parliament, in particular the House of Peoples, for the realisation of jobs that would allow the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU? It's a matter of secretary.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1121	The college had your proposal. He came in a little later. As far as I know, not all the commission stages have gone through, and because of that proposal, we decided to put him on the next session of the House of Peoples. It will be, so we've been informed about it. Any more questions, any requests to answer the question? No, I don't. Any changes and additions to the proposed agenda? If not, in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the agenda has been adopted and we can move to the first item of the agenda, but before that I would just like to tell you that I am in a position to hold a session today, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because the chairman has been prevented. I hope that he will come very soon in a position to lead these sessions and that we will be complete and I think I express the desire of all of us to wish him all together. Moving to the first item of the agenda: Ad. 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions (to be provided in accordance with Article 145). Rules of Procedure in written form) The questions asked earlier were: Slobodan Šaraba, two answers; Ilija Filipović and Zoran Koprivica. I ask the delegates: Are they satisfied with the answer? First Mr. Šaraba. No, no, first Šaraba, first old, old questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1123	Mr. Chairman and esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. I have to say that before this session, I wanted to suggest that this item of the agenda in future is changed and that it's called only parliamentary questions, for one basic reason, that in the last year we were most often asking parliamentary questions, and very rarely we were getting answers to the committee questions, and, well, that seems to me,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1124	MPs' questions! 6
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1125	Delegation issues, and it seems to me, have become a practice here in the House. Here, in the last few days we've received some answers. I, the Honorable Chairman, have received three answers and am not satisfied with any answer. With one answer, I'm absolutely unhappy, and I'll say the reasons why. The first question was about the Ivanjitsa border crossing: When will this crossing get the status of the goods crossing? In response to this, my delegate question is that the re-tegorisation of border crossings should be initiated and the procedure for amending an international contract concluded between BiH and Croatia should be implemented. Since this contract was concluded in 2000, and since southern BiH and RS are absolutely blocked, in a commercial sense, I propose that the procedure for amending this international treaty be put into effect urgently and that the border crossing of Ivanica be given the status it should have, which is the status of a goods crossing, since it is now only a border crossing for passenger traffic. As for the second answer, he referred to the purchase of modern fire extinguishers. And I asked that question last year in August when we in southern BiH and RS had very big problems. Unfortunately, there is no sign of this issue here about the purchase of at least some helicopters that would be very necessary in the future to prevent such phenomena that occurred last year, but I have received information that a working group has been formed to create the Law on the Protection and Rescue of Humans and Material Goods, which was not my question, but there is no such law in... procedure, although it has been more than five months since this working group was formed. And the third question was the signing of the basic contract between the Serbian Orthodox Church and BiH and in this response, which was delivered in 28.12.2007, the following sentence: After the delivery of the basic contract to the Patriarchy of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Belgrade, which will be signed by His Holiness the Patriarch of Serbian Mr Pavle, the Treaty will be signed by the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH. This, gentlemen, is absolutely not true. This finding in this response is not correct because the patriarch of Serbia, His Holiness Mr. Pavle, signed this contract in half of October. I got that information from Patriarchia and Mitropolis here in Sarajevo. And I ask the question: What is the real reason to deliver a response like this, and why are certain things hiding? I must also say that we, as a Serbian club here in the House of Peoples, were deceived because in August of the month, when we adopted the Treaty between BiH and the svet stolica, we received clear information and a firm promise that the basic contract between BiH and the Serbian Orthodox Church would be found at the next session, so in September of the month. And now, in December, we get information that's not true. And that is why I, Mr. Chairman, ask you to give clear, concrete and written information at the next session of the House of Peoples about what is going on about the signing of this contract. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1126	Thank you very much. It's gonna be hard for me to give it or for the College. In principle, this must be answered by the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. I can promise you that I will get more than the rest of my job to check out what you said you got the false answer. It's the hardest knowledge of all, that I'm not talking about anything else. But here, I'm interpreting this your 7 last as a new question if I can, if I may say so, what you said to interpret as being asked, practically, a new question. Am I right?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1127	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1128	Okay, thank you. I would like to ask delegate Filipović: Is there any comment on the question?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1129	I'll do it very briefly. I asked a question, today is exactly six months. After six months, I received an answer, and the question was too long an investigation into the prosecution against the arrest of 11 people in Herzegovina-Neretva County. In that matter, I have been asked to be told why this investigation lasts 21 months,...why it is an arrest with remarks... of political interference. I got an answer that doesn't satisfy me. It is an answer that wants to discipline parliamentarians in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly that we are essentially not asking the bodies of the judiciary... in this country. The Council of Ministers has received a Legislative question. It therefore odaslati its act and requested a position on the issue raised by the Prosecutor's Office, the Special Department for Corruption and Crime and the High Court of Justice and Prosecutors. So what they wrote is not an answer to what I asked, and in addition, when it comes to discipline, therefore it is given, out of the text, springs, so their desire that MPs can't get involved in something that is the work of the judicial bodies, so neither in the investigation. No charges were filed at the time, and the court still has not accepted the indictment. So, that was, it was the phase of an investigation that lasted 21 months. After the arrest, people released after three days, so they told them everything and said: there were certain injuries, etc. So, here in this dissatisfaction, I must say that we Parliamentarians have very much the duty and obligation, therefore, in relation to our knowledge, to ask certain questions and to get answers from state bodies and institutions and not only state bodies, but from all the authorities in this country. And I wouldn't want to be asked, in the future, one of the bodies in this country, to get such an impertinent and rude answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1130	Thank you very much, Mr. Filipović. I'd like to ask delegate Koprivica, does he have any comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1131	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and others present, I express my,... satisfaction with my answer, namely that both the code of conduct and the decision to form the Council of National Minorities at the BiH Parliament are in the process, on the agenda, so that, on the other hand, I am satisfied with the answer. The only thing I would take advantage of on this occasion, given that I already have a word, of the opportunity to suggest that during some future period, when sending calls and materials to the House of Nations session... from the Secretariat, reception stamps and dates under which certain acts were received are mandatory. 8 Since it happens very often, it is not only the case for this information but also for certain legal projects, there are two or more proposals or texts that... create some confusion among the delegates themselves in our city that... certain... unnecessary misunderstandings are avoided in this way. I would also suggest, if already... I have the opportunity to speak, that for the next session since all the commissions... At home, the people made up their orientation plans for this year 2008, to prepare for the next session the orientation plan of the House of Nations, given that this is an act that will surely make our work easier for us in the period ahead and given the many obligations that lie ahead of this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1132	Thank you very much. It is that this is not a part of the agenda, but here it was useful for us from the College to hear the suggestion. I didn't want to... interrupt the debate. Any new delegate questions? [[Common discussion]] Please, but I don't have that you've received any new, new answers in your memo here. If the answers are common, no, no, if the answers are from a joint session, we didn't plan to comment on them at a special session, but here. Although it was not envisaged, given that the joint sessions would not be long, if you agree, I, as chairman, would also give opportunity to those who formally received answers that they too comment on their answers, although these were not answers to questions for the House of Peoples. Mrs. Majkić is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1134	We have 57 agenda points, we will have a joint commission soon, because the delegated question is the report on the work of the Public TV Service, so there will be a session soon. I ask you to leave it for the first item of the agenda of that joint session, because there are MPs from the House of Representatives who have asked a question and it is logical to hear the comments. Here, I ask you to listen to that suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1135	Mr. Rančić. His question is from the House of People's session. Here you go. We'll make a deal, Mr. Jović, and we'll see. Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1136	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, so I asked a question at the House of Peoples session and got an answer. My question referred to a large number of places on the borders that are suitable for illegal crossings, smuggling of goods, illegal human crossings, and what the Council of Ministers and other resolution institutions are doing to prevent this, reduce etc. So, I got the answer. In terms of getting the answers and the effort they've made, in that part, I'm happy and grateful, because there are questions that we haven't been getting an answer to in months. The Council of Ministers has worked very hard here, but I am not satisfied with the overall and content of the response. Here's why. So, at the border between BiH and Croatia, they found 118 such places where these crossings could be done illegally and took action in a way that they shared that they would take action in 68 places, and in 50 places would be taken by the Republic of Croatia. The deadline for taking these measures, according to the reply, was 20.12.2007 and the Council of Ministers' reply was 27.12., so seven days after the deadline. In response, I have a report only on the measures taken for 26 such places, and they do not say, so they have not even summed up their jurisdiction, which is for the remaining 42 crossing points in the BiH institutions' jurisdiction, and about 50 places, which they have agreed that the Republic of Croatia is competent, are absolutely not talking about anything. So, out of 118 places that are registered for possible illegal crossings, we don't have a report for 92 such places: What is done or what is planned to be done? In that part, I'm looking for a supplement. And the second part is that for the borderline between BiH and Serbia-Montenegro. There's absolutely no answer to what they're doing, which is the number, etc. The lack of a border contract between BiH and these other two countries is not an obstacle and must not be an excuse to state authorities to take measures out of their jurisdiction to prevent illegal actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1137	Thank you. So, with a comment, we got a new question. I'll remind both you and Mr. Šarab to follow Article 145. The Rules of Procedure have an obligation to deliver it in writing. Just before I give my word, how many fellow delegates would like to comment on the questions asked at a joint session? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Oh, no, then all right. Here you go, Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1139	:Dear Mr. President, gentlemen, the Vice President, the honourable fellow envoys and all present today's session of our home, I hold, at this moment must express my agreement with Mr. Šaraba, because, indeed, as he has explained today, we wanted to support the desire to sign the Treaty between the Serbian Orthodox Church and BiH, and I think that here and for us individuals, there is every responsibility to help to achieve this act as soon as possible because it is inadmissible to how long this is taking place. And if I can only do one, as a member of this House and a member of the Human Rights Committee. Dopredsjedatelj-President Filipović received a bold and rude response where in the government's trio, one institution accepts that it violates human rights but prohibits anyone appearing on behalf of it 10 when human rights are violated. That, I think, is outrageous in any practice. That's even writing, that's really ugly.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1140	Thank you very much. Mr. Vidović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1141	Thank you. Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, I have a parliamentary question, i.e. an emissary issue for the Council of Ministers and for the BiH Joint Affairs Service. In fact, I believe that it is known to all of us that the Council of Ministers adopted the Strategy for the Development of the Information Society in BiH in 2004 and that the Ministry of Transport and Communications of BiH is introducing an Electronic Government Project, i.e. a Governorship where fact-finding ministers could participate in the work of government meetings and their homes or from any other location. It is also known that the project began intensively with work and that it will be operational in two or three months. All advantages are also known, so electronic governments, which, apart from the removal of large piles of paper, are viewed through the availability and other essential necessary data and documents that ministers can use at sessions which have not been the case so far. An extremely important advantage of the electronic government is the fact that ministers will be able to attend Council meetings wherever they are physically. So, the minister can be in America, Mostar, Tuzla, Banja Luka or at home, and by simply connecting to the Internet and entering the system, he will be able to participate equally in the work of government meetings, or Council of Ministers and decide, to make decisions. In addition, they will, of course, need other information available. All together, you agree with me, that this is part of a wider information society project in BiH, which I certainly support. However, since the Council of Ministers is mainly the proponent of legal solutions to the BiH Parliament that are certainly already being processed or processed in electronic form in the Council of Ministers, my question for the Council of Ministers, as well as for the Service for Joint Affairs reads: Does the Council of Ministers of BiH provide for electronic communication with the Council of Ministers, and when will MPs, who, for this, demonstrate demand and preparedness, be able in electronic form, instead of a bunch of papers, to obtain materials that have passed the procedure through the Council of Ministers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1142	Thank you very much. Delegate Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1143	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, at first I would like to welcome Mr Tihić to the Club of Serbian Delegates, to give him our wishes for a more recent recovery. I hope he finds his place very soon in the College of the House of Peoples. 11 I want to ask two questions. The first question is about my question referred to the Council of Ministers in 29.6.2007 and to which, to this day, I have not received, means at the 6th session of the House of Peoples. If that was an irrelevant question, I'd skip that question and forget about it but I want it to be short, so I can read it. Reports on the revision of BiH institutions made up of the Office for Audit found that a number of budget users did not resolve the appointment issue, whether the mandates had expired, whether the procedure was not consistently respected when they were appointed. I ask the Council of Ministers to answer me: When will the single record of all mandates be organised that would include, among other things, the time of appointment and the end of the term of office of officials in BiH institutions? This would allow the process of new appointments and the avoidance of practice of technical mandates, the performer of duties and other temporary solutions that do not contribute effectively to the work of BiH institutions to be launched in time. Here, I'm protesting because a question like this has not, in more than six months, been found as a part of the agenda on the Council of Ministers. And since I see Minister Nović here, the only minister, I expect him to pass it on to the Council of Ministers and this also shows... what the Council of Ministers' relationship with this home is, that rare cases are that someone from the Council of Ministers attends these sessions. The second question is about the College of the House of Peoples. I'm looking for an answer right now. Since I do not have the opportunity to ask this question on the Expansive College because, regardless of what our Rules of Procedure in Article 18(3) provides for work in the Enlarged College, we – not a member, nor the chairman of committees, nor the chair of clubs – do we have the opportunity to participate in the work of the College and that I think many things happen badly because it is not so. And that's why I want to ask a question that I think is still, for which the College is responsible. I got this material on the table and everyone in our club, I guess everybody in the House of Peoples, and I already have this kind of material that came into the regular procedure and my question is: Whose initiative has been accompanied by duplication of materials and unnecessary spending of funds, and what arguments are given in favour of this initiative? Please answer me right now! So this goes into the trash.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1144	The delegation club, is that right, has submitted a request from the Bosniak people to the College for consistent application of Article 56. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples, in which I quote, reads: Agenda, material prepared for the session and, if that is the case, the minutes of the previous session are delivered to the MP with a call for a session. The literal interpretation is that when you send a call you have to send all the materials. I have my opinion on it and it totally agrees with you, but this is a business provision that a club has called and insists on doing so. Just for the answer. Now should we open the debate? Here you go, delegate Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1145	That means, I can't believe that colleagues from the Bosniak People's Club didn't have a clue that that means they're going to have to get complete materials over and over again at least three to four times. So the first time he'll get it when he sends it to the College, the second time he gets it when he first reads it, the third time he gets it when he's second reading, the fourth time he'll get it if he needs to agree to the procedure, the fifth time he's working on commissions. I can't believe anyone at the Bošnjak delegates' club thinks it's the right thing to do. I ask my colleagues to withdraw this proposal because 12 this is a shame that this number, this size of materials that have been printed, this amount of costs that have been made and so many workers who have been hired in professional services to do so, have not taken care of it and when such a request has been proposed. And one more thing, I mean, this is to the College, if it was a club, a proposal from the Bosniak People's Club, I, on behalf of the Serbian People's Club, declare that we no longer need to copy, is enough for you to deliver once.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1146	Thank you very much. I suggest we stay out of this debate. This was a delegate question. We've made something clear on this point. The college will keep the discussion in mind and make a decision at its next session. And literally, the Rules of Procedure said what I told you. More delegate Ibrahimpašić questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1147	I can only: or we can end this institution of delegates or we can take this seriously so it suits us. I asked one of those same questions, first of all at a joint session, I didn't get any answers, so, last time, at a session of this house, I didn't get an answer. Is this about excises? To explain to me why this law is good for this country and its economy when, in my opinion, it's nakaradically, so I listed three cases (cafe, alcohol, cigarettes), it's cataractly done, and nobody suits me. Let's say why it's so that I don't bang, that I know why it's good, or let's say it's not good, we'll change. But I won't give up the question and I want it answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1148	Delegate Jović. I wanted to, at the end of the agenda, try to sum up these comments. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1149	: I thank you for allowing me, if I may comment previously. Well, we started out with practice just as soon as we got through the circumstances, and that's the current clock, and I think we should do it as soon as possible and continue this practice that she didn't revive. I have one question for the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the Ministry of Refugees and displaced persons and the Commission for Indirect Taxation, all three institutions. Each year, including in 2007, the Government of the Republic of Croatia allocates funds to support universities, schools, preschool institutions, sports institutions, culture in BiH. For 2007, funds amounting to HRK 100 million were allocated to these purposes. It's about 26 million marks somewhere. Of this amount, which are donor funds and have character and humanitarian character in large part, it has been paid for VAT, funds have been taken, amounting to 17 million kunas or orientations of four and a half million marks. Thus, the donor should allocate so much funds for the BiH budgets, while at the same time doing a humanitarian work. Those huge 13 funds were paid by donors. I consider it a precedent compared to all other donations to citizens, institutions that come from abroad. So my question is: What can I do for this matter by the Resistant Ministry and the Commission for indirect taxation in order to either return this part or in some other way, easy to obtain material or something like that?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1150	Thank you very much. Any more questions? If not, I suggest we conclude with the next conclusion. First, to find out that everyone who has asked a question should deliver them in writing and I ask you to do so in order to be able to answer. And secondly, I suggest that the College commits itself to once again warning the Council of Ministers, with me proposing that, if this is not accepted, that we wait more than half a year for some of the delegate issues, then we must once open a debate, the agenda point: what in these conditions we do! But here we are now going at this stage with the conclusion: that the College commits itself to once again warning the Council of Ministers that delegates are not satisfied with the deadline and the way in which the deadlines are approached and the way in which their questions are approached. If you're okay with that? Since I suggested the conclusion, I suggest we make a statement on the conclusion. Who is “for ” this conclusion? Thank you. ‘Non’? No "maintenanced" available. Thank you. I understand that we voted unanimously on this conclusion. We're going to the second item of the agenda, that's ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 1st extraordinary and 10th session of the House of Peoples First, we'll make a statement about the record from the 1st extraordinary session. You've reached the record. Is anyone answering for a word? Delegate Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1152	Mr. Chairman, regarding the First Extraordinary Session minutes, the opening part of this minutes stands, among other things, and my name that I have justified my absence at this session. Mr. Chairman, I have not justified my absence. I received a call for this session of professional services at 10 o'clock, and the session was scheduled for 13 o'clock. So, I wasn't physically in a situation to come and attend this House session. So this session is scheduled against Article 56. The Rules of Procedure and that is why I ask that the Rules of Procedure be respected in future when holding meetings and notifying attendance at home sessions. So much and thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1153	Thank you very much. A concrete proposal, then, shall we?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1154	I'm just asking him to stand up. So I didn't justify my absence. I have informed that I cannot attend the session because physically I cannot attend the session due to late notice.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1155	To correct that he didn't justify it, but... he couldn't come because of a late appointment. Okay, thank you. Is there more? I think this request is correct from the delegates and I think it should be accepted. Who, then, is “for ” to adopt the record, along with this correction that the delegate Šaraba spoke of? Thank you. Does anyone have “against ”? "Sustained"? No, thank you. I find that we unanimously adopted the First Extraordinary Session minutes. Now we're going to consider the record from the 10th session of the House of Peoples. Is anyone answering for a word? He's not answering. We can go to the vote. Who's "for" to adopt a 10th-session record? Thank you. ‘Non’? There isn't. "Sustained"? There isn't. Thank you. I understand that we have unanimously adopted the record. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations (High Representative Act) In accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure, on the request for an urgent procedure, shall be decided by the House after the debate. So, first I'm opening a debate on whether or not we're going to be working on an emergency procedure. 15 The delegate of Šaraba shall answer for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's one more time I want to make my point that by adopting the law like this, we have to stop once. The adoption of the emergency law, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure, and there's no need for that! I really don't think it's necessary for these laws to be passed in this way, I think we should stop once. That is why, with all due respect to the institution of the High Representative, I am expressing my personal and party opinion that by adopting the law in this way, when there are no legitimate reasons for this, it is necessary to stop and adopt laws in the usual democratic procedure. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1158	Let me just say it. So the predstavnički of Representatives accepted a request for the law to be considered by an urgent procedure and then passed this law. According to the procedure, it is intended that amendments are not being invested, and that is the procedure that I should inform you before this debate. Delegate Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1159	We must bear in mind that it is a law that the High Representative made in 15.6.2007 through a decision by which this law was declared on a provisional basis. So he's in effect. If we don't bring it in, we can't change it. So it's in our best interest to pass this law. If we need to intervene, we need to intervene after he's brought in. So, the Club of delegates of the Serbian people will support this law,...the procedure of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1160	Is there more? Delegate Rajić. Representative Rajić, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1161	Anyway, we got along. I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to, colleagues and colleagues, join this thinking so I could understand the reasons that Representative Šaraba is talking about. But I don't think it's productive. We can only talk about these laws, which the High Representative has passed, in a way that we accept or do not accept, without the right to intervene in their content. And if we want this law to be available to our will, to our thinking about change, then we have to do this for what MP Majkić's up for, so deal with it today. What seems to force itself a little bit, if there's something in our interest, then it's in the interest of us adopting it, so let's see if it's good, can we fix something? 16
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1162	Thank you. Are there any more interested in the debate, in the proceedings, in the procedure? If there isn't, I'll put it on a statement. Who is "for" to be considered under Article 122 of the proposal for a law. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? Thank you. ‘Non’? One vote “against ” and 12“ for. ” It was adopted to consider the bill as an emergency procedure. Now we're voting on the bill. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the bill to the vote. Who is “for ” the law? ‘Non’? With one vote "against" and 12 "for" this law was passed. We move to the point of the four agenda, that's ad. 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations (High Representative Act) In accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure, on the request for an urgent procedure, shall be decided by the House after the debate. The House of Representatives accepted a request for the bill to be considered by emergency procedure, and then passed the law. The amendments don't apply. I am opening a debate on the procedure, therefore on the application of Article 122. Who's interested in the debate? Niko. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. Who is "for" to be considered under Article 122 of the proposal for a law. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? Mr. Rajić, haven't I seen if it was "yes"? Okay. ‘Non’? With one vote "against" and 12 "for", a proposal was adopted to consider the bill under Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Now we vote, we discuss the bill. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Niko. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the bill to the vote. Who Is For? ‘Non’? With 12 votes "yes" and one vote "against", the draft law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH was adopted. 17 We move to the point of the five agenda, that is: Ad. 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations (High Representative Act)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1166	After the debate was concluded on this agenda, I suggested one conclusion to which the House should plead. So it is obvious that the proposal for a law on public procurement in such a text as it is proposed will fall and therefore I have suggested a conclusion which I ask the House to declare. So, the rest is to wait for what the College will do as a commission and since I see that no consent has been reached, so I'm asking that this conclusion be made to the House. The conclusion, therefore, is: (1) Given the experience gained in BiH in the meantime during the implementation of the Public Procurement Act, it is necessary to access the urgent development of a new public procurement law that would be the fruit of domestic experts' work. The new law should include solutions to best European practices that are not contrary to the country's legislation. (2) The Council of Ministers of BiH undertakes that within eight days of the date of receipt of this conclusion, a working group will form a working group to draft a new public procurement law. (3) In the working group for the drafting of the draft law set out in Article (2) of this conclusion, proven experts from the field of public procurement should be appointed, namely: Dženita Fočo (public procurement agency), Ostoja Travar (public procurement agency, Filija Banja Luka), Sonja Ćubela (public procurement agency, Filijala Mostar), Amir Pilav (Sarajevo Office for the Review of Appeals), Hajrudin Buza (Contracting Body Representative of the BH Post Office Sarajevo), Stipe Petričević (Employment Authority of Mostar), Drago Vojinović (Employment Authority representative of the Elektroprivredna RS Banja Luka), Prof. Veljko Trivun (Sarajevo Faculty of Law), Milan Zjajić (Office of the Law of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Sarajevo) and Dragiša Košica (presentative of the Unit of Local Self-Government). (4) The working group referred to in Article 2 of this conclusion shall draw up a proposal for a new law on public procurement within 60 days and refer it to the procedure. (5) When drawing up the draft law, the working group will take care of the need to give the Public Procurement Agency greater powers and responsibility in relation to the training of contracting authorities and suppliers as well as monitoring in the public procurement process. (6) It is recommended that a SIGMA representative be called in the work of the working group as a representative of the European Commission in the advisory role. (7) Costs of working groups shall be borne by the Agency for Public Procurement. That would be the conclusions I'm asking for the Dom to be made.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1167	Your conclusion or this committee?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1168	What? 19
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1169	Yours, yours or these committees?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1170	No, no, these are the conclusions we proposed as a committee. No, my conclusion, I'm sorry, I forgot, because I lost my sight. My point.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1171	Okay. This is a proposal for conclusions that we'll probably have to talk about a little bit later because they're very detailed. But before that, on the report, there is no agreement. We... now that there is a Report, we should apply Rule 73 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, that means that decisions on that law – the law is put to the vote again – are taken by the majority of those present, voting (I think we all know by heart) on the condition that the votes "against", must not contain two-thirds or more delegates elected from each entity. I don't think there's any need to... Okay, if there's any interest in the debate, it's okay, I thought we'd go to the polls. Are there any interested in the debate? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Excuse me. Yeah, you're right, 74. They put 73 here for me, and it's 74.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1173	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1174	Delegate Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1175	Here's a little bit. So, I would like to express my regret that we were not in the College able to reach an agreement to propose a law on amendments and the addition of the Public Procurement Act to pass. These changes and additions, according to my basic court, have removed many objections and hastened the process from calling to final decision-making when it comes to public procurement. I would not now enter the reasons that, which were run by the Serbian People's Club, who... said his clear position through a member of the College of Dr. Mladen Ivanić. So, I'd be in favour of making a statement about the report the College signed, and I wouldn't be in favour of it, I won't support any conclusions, prejudge any of the things, proposing any bodies that the commission will, and especially we've already chosen here, we don't have the right here as a Dom, so impose immediately and the composition of the bodies that will do it. Well, I guess that's one different way of making arrangements with another house, etc. So, I wouldn't go further into the debate or a statement of anything other than a report which, unfortunately, we have the kind we have, and we don't practically have any amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, and we're going to continue to suffer at all levels of long, barren procedures 20...that give us headaches, not only to those who discuss the competition but to those who have to collect documentation and report to tenders... for the tenders called,...not to talk about censorships etc. So, I invite you, therefore, to the House, not to go any further than the College's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1176	We're having a little consultation on the procedure. First we have the report. Are there any more interested in the debate? Delegate Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1177	Both the Commission on Finance and the Budget of the People's House, so the Commission on Finance and the Budget of the People's House and I personally and the public debate and all the people who spoke at the public debate, no one has said a single word that is positive for this proposal. The worst thing is not to touch and leave it standing. There is the obligation of the Parliamentary Assembly to after some time all the laws it has passed, to look at what it has done and what effect they have made in implementation. We've forgotten all about it. What an effect it will be if we don't accept any suggestion, means no opinion... of changing this law but leaving it as it is. 99% of the audit reports will talk about the law, because it speaks of its quality, it speaks of the irresponsibility of the key agency for the implementation of this law that does not work, the work that is imposed on it. It speaks of foreigners being creators, so they copied entire segments into this law that BiH contract authorities do not know what they're talking about. And if all of this is not enough argument and you're contesting that it's in some particular interest of the Serbian people, then I really don't have a word, if none of the arguments, I think I cited 15 or 16 at the last session, and that none of them triggered at least thinking about whether there's any basis, then I'm really surprised and I expect that we have a little more trust in each other. As a man, I really have no reason to demand that a law be broken that would be better for this country. He's no good like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1178	There's more. First we'll delegate Rajić and then delegate Čolo. First delegate Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1179	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I would only for the sake of the full information that it would be complete, because I have before me a report from the Committee on Budgets and Finance, which I am a member of along with the president, Mrs. Majkić. It seems to me that it is not quite correctly interpreted that the Committee on Budgets and Finance has spoken and concluded when it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act. It literally states there that the Commission for Finance and Budget of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, after a comprehensive discussion of the details, accepted most of the votes... the principles of this 21 law. So, I'm reading the conclusion. The fact that we had different opinions and the debate on the committee itself is correct. There were a lot of arguments and advocacy to make changes and supplement the law and remove a whole series of brake illogicalities that take place in the public procurement process, but... we failed to reach the solution we wanted. We have before us a report from the Committee that reports us as the House that it has failed to agree, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The only thing left for us is that we do not spread the debate about this and the belief and make known, acknowledge, or adopt the report of the Commission as it is. We can't change it, College, although MP Majkić insists on his conclusion that the House declares it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1180	Thank you very much. Delegate Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1181	Dear Chairman, I don't really know what our mission is? We have a negative report from the Joint College, the College report that no consent has been reached, means that the text of the law has not been agreed, and we should vote again today. The second goes round the vote and then, this number of votes that will be "against", will determine whether the bill will pass. That's, we don't say anything about that report. However, I would like to look back on what my colleague Dušanka Majkić said. It is her point that this law in its application has shown that there are certain weaknesses. It was passed in 2004, changed several times. However, I cannot say that contract authorities, meaning authorities that are obliged to comply with the Public Procurement Act, are breaking the law because the law is not good. I cannot accept such a single view that, because the law is not good, the authorities that are obliged to comply with it are breaking the law, and the reports that we are going to consider today are being reviewed by BiH institutions that a number of state institutions have violated the Public Procurement Act. And I, believe me, as someone who is a member of this house and who is responsible for the law that he passed and this home, among other things, in the previous term, I will not accept the fact that the authorities are breaking the law because this law is not good and I will not accept the fact that it needs to be based... a new law because, in my opinion, there is no law that, I don't know how it is bad, that it can't be changed. So, by amending and supplementing the same law, I am in favour of us, if we have assessed the need to amend certain provisions of the law, because in practice, the authorities are in a position to violate these provisions, that a working group is formed to work on amendments and amendments to that law, and not in any way go to the adoption of a new law, because amendments and additions to the laws can change each of its members, so that we can come up with a completely new text that would be adapted to our constitutional system and to the legal order of BiH, which would be easier to implement for the BiH authorities.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1182	Now, here's the deal. Is there more? delegat Majkić: for the third time on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1183	I have an obligation. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1184	I know, but a little bit of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1185	This bill has already amended 57% of the law. In addition, the Office's objections to the complaint were not respected, which would be about 70%. The rule is that if more than 50% of the laws change, a new law is passed. So I'm not making it up, that's the rule. I said all that last time, and I'm only saying this because I care that you have complete information.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1186	Thank you very much. Delegate Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1187	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, therefore, and I am a member of the Budget and Finance Commission, and I would like to confirm what my colleague Rajić said that we, as a committee, supported the adoption of this law, both in the first and second readings. A colleague of the chairman of this committee, the lapus one, therefore, sought to avoid our insistence, so let it be, you know that I was saying why there was no sitting, so it took a little bit of a delay, so in front of the House session we ended up as a committee statement and, therefore, we voted as a commission and supported the adoption of this law. Whoever is essential to the application of this law, he has, every MP, had the opportunity to vote "for" to support the amendments and complement the better of this law. Those who are not for the application of this law or for its correction, unfortunately, they voted, they voted "against", and thus questioned, in the question of amendments and additions... of this law. So, I support what my colleague Filipović was saying, so I suggest we stick to the Rules of Procedure, vote, vote on this law, and we will see the outcome of the vote itself, and the conclusions of my colleague Majkić, who we will eventually vote on, will not be supported for the reason that this... is a slalom in this legal procedure. Whoever was honest about applying and supplementing the amendments to this law had the opportunity to vote on it. We know... that MPs, SNSD delegates lead the activities of bringing this law down completely, we know that the essence of it is, and that we are not fooling ourselves and we are not starving. We know that a respected member of the House of Representatives has initiated a procedure before the Constitutional Court and we think that the essence of this is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1188	Thank you very much. Are there any more interested in the debate or should we slowly try to bring it down? Although it is common for the House to declare itself on the commission's report, in this case I don't think it's the commission, which normally does procedural things. I think we just need to understand that no agreement has been reached, because... the Rules of Procedure stipulates, but the Rules of Procedure obliges the House to declare in the second round a law that will pass if it gets a supra-al majority, with two 23-thirds of the delegates from one entity not "against". To be clear, it's that famous member we dealt with in November and October... a lot of time. So, I'm putting the draft law on public procurement to the vote. Were there any changes and additions? I'm sorry, about the amendments and additions to the BiH Public Procurement Act. First I ask who's for, who's for? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] "For" this law. So "for" this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1190	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1191	No, you didn't, you didn't listen to me. We don't plead, Dušanka. Are you “for” this law?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1192	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1193	So we said this isn't the commission's report on the regular one, it's just the findings. So, "for" this law: two, four, six, eight delegates. Who Is “against ”? The ‘against’ is five. I find that more than two-thirds of the MPs, or delegates from one nation, are "against" this law, and in accordance with Article 73. Rules of Procedure, not to speak now, this law... has not passed. We're going to the seventh item of the agenda. I'm doing fine with this legal thing. Ad. Seven. Proposal for an internal audit law in BiH institutions (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law itself. The House of Representatives passed a law without amendments. You've reached the committee's report. The Commission adopted the draft law with three amendments. There were no new amendments. Is anyone answering for this bill? Delegate Dušanka Majkić 24
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1195	The Committee for Finance and the Budget of the House of People, as the committee responsible, unanimously adopted the text of the proposal for a law on the internal audit of BiH institutions at its session of 15.1. However, the text of the proposal adopted by this law...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1196	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1197	I expect people to listen to me, not to talk, then sit down until you're done talking. However, the adopted text of the bill differs in three amendments to the text adopted without amendments in the House of Representatives. I propose that, following the vote on the Commission's report, a decision be taken to form a Joint Commission for the Consensus of the Text of the Law, in accordance with Article 116 and I propose to this Commission: Mr Hazim Rančić, Mr Božo Rajić and I as a member of this committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1198	Thank you very much. Here you go. That's what you'll answer for later. Any suggestions? Mr. Rančić, will you say?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1199	If it comes to this vote, so I suggest Mr Ibrahimpašić Pasic instead of me...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1200	Okay, that, let's go a little fast. But, Mrs. Majkić, we listen very well to you rather than just... procedural things when we put it on the agenda? Well, since there isn't, first, then we have to vote, right, on the Commission's report... Who is “for” to adopt the Commission Report? Is it “against”? There are no "sustained"s. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Commission report, which means that the amendments have become an integral part of the proposal for a law on which we declare ourselves. We vote now on this law. Who is “for” the bill? “against”? There are no "sustained"s. I find that this law has been passed unanimously. 25 Since this law has a different content than what it had in the House of Representatives, we must form a Joint Commission for Harmonization. You heard the proposal of the President of the Commission, you heard the addition of the president, the club chief, that is, now the head of the Bosniak People's Club, is that it is so that, instead of Mr. Rančić, Ibrahimpašić will be a member of this commission. Does anyone have “against” this proposal? There isn't. So now the proposal is this new composition. Who is “for” this composition of the Joint Coordination Commission? “against”? There are no "sustained"s. Thank you. I find that we have established members of the Joint Commission in front of the House of Peoples. We're going to the eighth point of the agenda, that's Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law itself. The House of Representatives passed this law in the proposed text. You've reached the committee's report. The committee has adopted the draft law in the proposed text, so no amendments. There was no amendment of others to the bill. Is anyone answering for a word? He's not answering. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the law. Who is “for ” this law? ‘Non’? No "maintenanced" available. Thank you. I find that from all 13 votes, we passed the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers. The law was adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, that's ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1203	: I feel uncomfortable as chairman of the Constitutional Commission that after four years of discussion about the problem treated by this law, and already for four years I have been very active in the adoption of such a law. To confirm that, I'd say this must be the third or fourth version of the law. It was organised on my public debate initiative, and all this time on the proposal, which we received, I pointed out that there is resistance in that part called the constitutional jurisdiction of the BiH government institutions, in line with the Constitution. And the law says in twenty places that the jurisdiction of RS and FBiH, which is not constitutional authority and, then, behold the wonders of the Brcko District, and then other levels of administrative organisation! It was a wish on the Constitutional Commission to bring this part into line with the constitutional solution. Therefore, in all articles, it means that there are RS, cantons or counties, Brcko District, cities and municipalities! On the basis of this, we also had a discussion on the subject of these 19 accepted amendments by the House of Representatives working group and such a version has passed. It's my thinking and the proposal would be here today to be good, in order to help people who can't wait for us to finally solve this issue and pass the law, to support the proposal, Mr. President, which you gave, to return the law to this commission and give a short time to deliver the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1204	Thank you very much. Delegate Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1205	So we see that the Constitutional Commission of the People's House, and after the adoption of the 20 amendments, did not accept the text of the proposal for a law on sport. I wondered the first thing that was ever discussed then about the amendments, after the exhaustion and analysis of 20 amendments to refuse the law, then really, something didn't make sense to me. But even more unclear is the Report which, therefore, is a negative report by the Constitutional Commission, which is explained by the following, so I quote: The fact that the Proposer did not well prepare the proposal for a law on sport, which is visible from a number of amendments verified by the House of Representatives and this Commission. It doesn't just mean that this law isn't well prepared because it has a large number of amendments, it just means maybe we want to make it better. And secondly, he says, the norms of this law are not in line with the actual state of jurisdiction of BiH institutions, and its adoption would be difficult and almost impossible to implement in BiH's legal system. Politics is terrible, and now we're going back to what the Constitutional Commission brought when it judged this law in its first reading. And, he says, the Constitutional Commission at the 7th session, held on 18.7 as a competent commission, unanimously accepted the principles of the proposed 27 law, and therefore accepted the principle, again, quote: The proposed text of the law is in line with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system. He just wasn't in sync, he was in sync. Furthermore, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopted the 19th Amendment Sports Act at its 20th session of 16.1. Only opposition parties' clubs voted against it, both the SDS and the SDP, which have no responsibility for the exercise of power. Only two MPs from DNS and DNZ were abstentions. I have a list of how the House of Representatives voted. So what happens in the House of Representatives... and their commissions compared to our home? It's like there's different parties in one home and another. Therefore, the competent commission has disregarded the fact that the aim of this law is to establish rules and competencies in the field of sports at BiH level, but that this does not violate the constitutional rights and obligations of entities and other levels of administrative organisation, which regulate issues in the field of sport at those levels. A public debate has been organised on the proposal of this law, right, in which the views of athletes and sports organisations who spoke in favour of the necessity of the adoption of this law could be heard. The amendment phase lasted 25 days, so it was extended, so that all clubs and delegates, who wanted to do so, could act as amendments to amend and supplement individual members of this bill. And finally to ask everything, "What would it mean if that law wasn't passed?" So, non-compliance with that law, what would it mean? One,... would mean the inability to include BiH in the work of international sports associations such as the International Olympic Committee, the International Paralympic Committee. The condition for membership in all international sports associations is legal regulation at BiH level. Under two, failure to adopt this law would continue with the work and development of BiH-level sports competitions under the laws and regulations of entities, which is not disputed. Entities will carry out activities, but without the possibility of BiH joining international sports associations. Under three, the principles on which sports are organised in BiH are contained in international documents whose BiH signatories, European standards and standards on the security and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and, accordingly, BiH must adopt the law. And under four, failure to adopt this law against the achievement of BiH's public interest in the world, it prevents the adoption of a strategy for developing sports in BiH, the development of sport development programmes, and in particular it will be repressive to establish the Anti-doping Agency. So, dear colleagues, I wonder, isn't the non-compliance of this law a violation of the national interest of all three peoples? Accordingly, I propose to the House of People not to adopt the Report on the Law on Sport in BiH of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples, that it return to the commission for consideration, with respect for what I said in the previous presentation. Thank you. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1206	Thank you very much. I now see in the end that it is the same proposal as the chairman's commission in charge. Is there more? Mr. Rančić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1207	Thank you very much. So, very briefly. In accordance with article 106, I was going to suggest that the House not adopt the report of the competent commission and return it to the competent commission and with the task of drawing up a new report.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1208	Thank you. Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1209	I'll do it for a while. Chairman, I just want to point out that... I agree with all those who think that... this law has strategic value, that it should be passed and that Parliament's responsibility in this is unequivocal. And I'd also like to point out that one unprincipled, almost I'd say, is a bit of a travel practice from these two reports that stand in a complete obstacle to one another. One says that it is true, it is older, this is younger, and that is more reason to accept these proposals made by MPs Majkić and Mr. Rančić and You, to return this commission to work and not to miss the chance to pass this law in...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1210	Thank you very much. Any other interested in the debate? If not, delegate Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1211	- Very short. I think it's a good thing that this is where the discussion is going to go back to the Constitutional Commission, but for the truth's sake, we're called and we are the Constitutional Commission. In all the public debates and in our practice so far, it has not happened that we take power and do not call under the Constitution of the institutions in this country. And that's why he was precedentd that we on the Constitutional Legal Commission were teaching the legislator what's-his-name. And that's why we didn't, that's why we didn't react, and even though we gave the amendment to that nature. And so don't blame this commission, because it's put in a situation: it doesn't know how to react! And it wasn't the subject exclusively, it was the 19 amendments that were accepted at the House of Representatives and we found ourselves in that situation to see what to do and hurry up, we wanted, we wanted to help, not to help pass this law. And now in the Constitutional Commission there's the will of the people who are there to do it the best way, and that's my suggestion, if you can put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1212	Thank you. I can, but when we're done arguing. Looks like sport is getting a lot of attention. Delegate Neimarlija. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1213	The esteemed presidency, fellow delegates, guests, I only need to express a little disagreement as a member of the Constitutional Commission with the presentation and discussion and the results of our processing of this bill by the chairman of the Commission, to the extent that, however, he has overdosed this valuable aspect of the amendment, which we adopted, among other things, and an amendment that requires that cantons be introduced in this law... let's say. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1214	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1215	I have a need, here, to express a small reserve since it's coming back to... The constitutional-legal commission of this law and we held a debate, they were, the chairman...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1216	I'm listening, I'm listening, I'm listening, I'm listening!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1217	Yeah, it's nice to meet you. So even then, I mean, we had, among other things, a simple fact that Mrs. Majkić, who wasn't in the Commission, of course, didn't work out, did. She could have assumed... things in the sense that,...if the House of Representatives, the House of Representatives adopted the amendments it had adopted and if at the House of Representatives, for example, the parties of both HDZ, I must say,... they accepted the amendments did not... set up in the bill of law in violation of the Constitution. If you have previously shown yourself that there is a constitutional basis, then here I am merely expressing the need to fence against this too strong... insistence of the president that the bill in some of his provisions is anti-constitutional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1218	Thank you very much. First delegate Šaraba and delegate Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1219	Mr. Chairman, with the trail of this story that Jović spoke of there was a will to adopt this law, but I do believe it is also necessary to respect the procedure for the adoption of this law, and in this direction I have addressed the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with the requirement that, since sport is exclusive to the authority of the entity, this law should also be made clear by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I expect that within this deadline that is likely to be adopted and left to the Constitutional Legal Commission to review this law, the... legislative project will also be declared by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and will thus be respected by the BiH Constitution. So much and thank you. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1220	Thank you very much. Delegate Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1221	:... I still consider that perhaps even in order, only an explanation. We have now concluded that, compared to the proposed text of the 19 articles, 19 amendments were adopted in the House of Representatives. And it wasn't just about what I said when the Constitution was in conformity, because that's what it's all about. But it's also not a good message: if it passes, you complain to the Constitutional Court! It's embarrassing to hear. For the application of the Constitution in this country where we can agree and say that, imagine, someone needs to be asked to apply the constitutional principle, on the Constitutional Court, which is absurd. And that's why I think it would be good to rush to a high-quality law, and I think this is all going in that direction to adopt that proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1222	Are there any more interested? Minister, I think that since he's going, he's pulling on, because the statement of vote should be that the law is going to stay alive, that means in the procedure, I don't think there's a need right now at this stage for something special. If you don't have a need, if you do, since you're here, I think we should give the word to the Minister. One of the few who came to the House of Peoples session.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1223	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I truly regret that... we are not in a position today to pass this law. I'm sorry for a lot of reasons. First, what athletes are eager to wait for, these countries, to get one law at the level of the BiH state, on the one hand, on the other hand, that we are strongly conditioned by the formation of the Anti-doping Control Agency and I am very afraid that our athletes who are registered for the Beijing Olympics in mid-year will not get a license to go to the Olympic Games due to the lack of formality of the agency. We were told to do so by the end of 2007, but unfortunately, it was not done. I must admit that by reviewing the amendments this Constitutional Commission has given home, it seems to me that these are identical amendments with amendments already adopted in the Parliamentary Assembly, excluding perhaps one or two amendments and a respected delegate, Mr Jović. I just want to remind you that the amendment to the Federation Ministry Act states that the Federal Ministry of Sports has an obligation to adopt and improve sports and sports and could be difficult to avoid being in law too. But also, there is nothing controversial about your amendment that has already been adopted by the Constitutional Commission to find its place in all members. So, the very fact where it is said at other levels of organisation means that all levels of organisation in BiH mean that. But there's nothing too controversial about it, it seems to me, amongst the pronouns, and as far as I've seen it, and I'm glad to see it today with you, if it could be very simple, let me say, and I'd like to ask you, really, that as soon as possible we put this home back on, because we're too, too, too, in a teapot. This seems to me to be one of the maximum we could get in BiH at this time in these parliaments under the quality of the law. There were many suggestions, very good proposals, but some of the realities that are in this country had to be respected. 31 There's so much, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1224	Thank you very much. The delegate... blames the quote. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1225	: Mr. Minister, by the Dayton Treaty, the Constitution of the Federation exclusive jurisdiction of sport is at canton level. By voluntary agreement then the party formed the Ministry – which was called – science, education, culture and sports and two or three years ago divided again by agreement, and not by constitutional change. And it has exclusively advisory and this coordinating character, without the power to pass laws. And that's true, and that's true and let's stay within those frameworks.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1226	Thank you very much. I propose, since we are now discussing the Commission's report and, as far as I can see, there is a good will for everyone to retain this law in the process, which means that everyone is ready, including the chairman of the Commission, to vote against his report. So I'm going to put the report on the vote first, and I think I've mildly suggested that it should be voted without any influence on the will of the delegates, in order to keep this law, let's say, active and in procedure. And then I'll suggest a conclusion within what time I expect a statement. So who's "for" the Constitutional Commission report? Who Is “against ”? I find that, if so, the Commission report was unanimously rejected. I suggest the conclusion: that the House of People asks the committee to draw up a new report based on new guidelines from today's debate within – as Thursday is not realistic today, it is – within 10 days to draw up a new report. And that's the amendment phase still, I mean, we brought you back and you're still in the amendment phase. Did I put that in a good way? I did. Who is “for ” this conclusion? Thank you. Is there a "porotiv"? "Sustained"? There isn't. Thank you. I find that we unanimously adopted this conclusion and then please be prepared to call the House session for these reasons and soon after the Commission's report. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: 32 Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Tax Act on additional value (first reading) – Proposer: delegate Mladen IvaniIvanić You've reached the bill, you've also received a report from the competent commission. I, as chairman now, must say that this commission has not accepted the principles of the law. In accordance with Article 101. Rules of Procedure, Dom declares the commission's report. If the House accepts the commission's report, the proposed law is considered rejected and if it does not accept the report, the House asks the competent commission to draw up a new report based on new guidelines set by the House within the time limit set by the House. So now we're talking about the Commission's report. I suppose Mrs. Majkić has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1228	So this wasn't the first proposal to change the VAT. Then we were assured that the Directorate for indirect taxation and the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury will make a consistent proposal by mid-February on what needs to be and what can be changed and as long as possible, since we have these proposals of the budget, the draft budget of the institutions which, in some form, have gone into legislative procedure. So, in order for this commission to give a positive view, it had to have a quality analysis and have a positive view of the Directorate for Direct Taxation. It's an obligation. Since the Indirect Taxation Authority gave a negative view, not to elaborate what the reasons are for it, but is a negative position, neither the Commission could adopt this report, and we remind you that each of these people here who we are sitting would like to have such a proposal and it would be a creator and that its law would succeed, so that there would be these attempts yet, until there really was a change of law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1229	I'm opening a debate. Just let me suggest a few words. I have been a proposer of this law and I must say that I think that the competent institutions that declared it were very superficial and without serious argument have approached their decision under this law. One of the documents called for by this commission was the document of the European Integration Directorate, which said roughly that the introduction of a zero rate has no legal basis in Acquis communautaire, which I must be honest with us does not have to represent anything special and is no argument, because the same directive wrote that a zero rate exists in Great Britain, that a zero rate exists in Belgium, that a zero rate exists in Denmark, exists in Cyprus, exists in Poland, and that a zero rate exists in a candidate country for the EU in Croatia. So that kind of argument absolutely doesn't stand. Equally, there is no argument She didn't say at all how much this would mean a threat, she claims it would endanger the country's fiscal stability and budgets, she didn't calculate or say how much it would be and why it was a problem. [[Shortly turned off the microphone]] But there is, she has only given one qualification, which I can accept for MPs, that MPs have the right to... but the administration, as one institution that has so many people, could at least say how many hundreds of millions or tens of millions of revenues would be less. I continue to argue that the revenues of 33 additional taxes were higher than planned, and that would certainly not endanger the country's budget situation. The fact is that there would be increased costs, increased tax collection costs, simplifiedly speaking, the life of tax officials would be a little more complicated. We'd have to do a little more work than they do now. Nothing is unknown in the world, two feet, it's absolutely nothing new, and there are computer systems and mechanisms and procedures, and after two years of practice, I think our administration has been in a position to do this, but obviously, because they have the right to block, it's hard for them to deal with it, at least that's how I defined it. Here in the complaint, it was said that the vaguely defined products were, and I must be honest that in a very strange way, it was aimed at that water that was intended for drink, so it was thought that I was proposing that water that was bottled. No, I suggested water from the water line, not any mineral water, so that some transactions were done with it, but water from the water line. And, if it was incorrect, it could be fixed, and I particularly find it incorrect, simply unacceptable to tell a zero rate to be in favour of the rich, with an argument that the rich spend more on food than the poor. I mean, I understand that the rich spend more on food, but on caviar, quality meat, snails, eels, I don't know what, but on bread, on flour, they don't eat twice as much bread from the poor, vice versa. And I think this kind of identification shows some kind of inconclusiveness with which colleagues approached it. So, if at least this law has provoked the Council of Ministers to now propose some amendments on behalf of all, and here we have heard from the President-in-Office of the Commission that we have this in front of us in 15 days, I will find it very interesting to see how the Directorate for indirect taxation will now explain that two steps are now possible, when the Council of Ministers proposes it. But if the bill of my law will contribute at least to that, I will be pleased. Here, we'll see, February 15th is close, we'll see how that's gonna be said. I received this call from the Administration, two days after the discussion on our commission, the director of the Direct Taxation Directorate said: it is possible to introduce two rates. So much for the consistency of competent institutions. Thank you, and I'm aware that this law doesn't have a majority. Okay, now I'm going back to my neutral role. We're crossing now, are there any more interested in the debate? There's Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1230	Thank you. Just for a minute, Mr. Chairman. I think the proposal for this differentiated rate, so, like this or a similar proposal that we have on the agenda today, is consistent with the proposals that the SDS has made recently. That is why I believe that this proposal should be supported and that it is extremely correct. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1231	Thank you very much. Any other interested in the debate? We put the Commission's report to the vote. 34 Who is "for" Commission report? Two, four, six, eight, ten, eleven. Who is "against" the Commission's reports? Thank you. I find that with 11 votes "yes" and two votes "against" the Commission's report has been accepted. It's thought... that the proposed law has been rejected. Moving to point 11. Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures (First Reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You've received the bill's proposal as well as the report from the committee in charge. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. The House of Representatives has already passed this law, this is our first reading. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the bill is based. Who's answering for a word? Delegate Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I want to point out that we are probably the only country in the region that has approached this problem in this way. So nowhere has a special legal regulation been established and made in this way a decision on its existence. Therefore, I do not feel that there is a need for the adoption of this law, since in the existing law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures, there is one particular chapter of the provisions on the execution of detention and detention where the institution is spoken of and on its establishment. So, the adoption of a regulation like this... and the regulation of this issue in this way is not necessary. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1234	Thank you very much. Here you go. If there are no further interested, then I would close the debate and put the bill in the first reading for the vote. Who is "for" this bill? ‘Non’? One. I find that with 11 votes "yes" and one vote "against" this law was adopted in the first reading. We move to the point of the 12th agenda, that's 35 Ad. 12. Proposal for a law on agriculture, nutrition and rural development (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You've received the bill's proposal as well as the report from the committee in charge. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. The House of Representatives accepted the bill in the first reading. This is the first reading and there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the bill is based. Who's answering for a word? Delegate Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a delegate elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in this high house, I addressed the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with one notice, because I wanted to, and since I believe this law is a transfer of competence from entities to the level of BiH, I asked for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to be declared on this legal basis. On 17 December, the competent Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia discussed this legal text and provided the following answer, so I will only read two sentences from this reply: After a comprehensive discussion of all those present, the Committee unanimously took the view that the proposed Law on Agriculture, Food and Rural Development is not acceptable, because it does not respect the conclusions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia since 14.6.2006. Accordingly, the Committee proposes that MPs from the RS in the Parliamentary Assembly should be given adopted conclusions as the basis for taking a stand on that draft of the law. Here, Mr. Chairman, I present this position brought by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore find that this law is not acceptable, that it is not in line with the conclusions adopted by the National Assembly in 5.7.2007, and in this direction it is proposed to set up a working group to draw up a new text of the draft legislation that will regulate certain issues in the area of agriculture, in line with the conclusions adopted by the National Assembly. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1237	Thank you very much. Delegate Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1238	So we know how we got this new opinion, so we had the first opinion that we came back, we didn't accept it, so we gave it back. Now, as my colleague Šaraba says, it all looks the way it is, but that's when you just read the half. So, the Committee of the National Assembly says: It is not acceptable to the bill because it does not respect the conclusions of the National Assembly of the RS of 14.6.2006, and they say: Making sure that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia accepted the European Commission's report, a functional review in the BiH agriculture sector, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia supports the need for a new definition of shared competences between... the country of BiH and entities in the agriculture and rural development sector. That's nine. 36 10. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia accepts such a distribution of competences in the agriculture and development sector of the village between the BiH state and entities that mean that RS is responsible for managing natural resources and defining policies, strategies and development programmes, which... this law does not take any of it, as well as financing the development of agriculture and villages remains intact. The National Assembly of the RS supports the distribution of competences in the agriculture and rural development sector between the BiH state and entities that mean that the BiH state is responsible for the following sectors: European integration, international trade in agricultural and food products, animal and plant health, food safety and coordination, and therefore we are talking about this law that it is primarily coordination, and coordination of policies and strategies within BiH. There are other members who talk about it, so you don't read it, I think this is enough why we're up to it...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1239	As you can see, it's interesting inside the club, we have different democratic views. Here you go, Mr. Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1240	I would only repeat it once again, and I said it once, so in the EU, when nothing was common, it was a common agricultural policy. And today 60% of the Union's budget goes to agriculture. I don't know, what we have in this law, it's really a minimum, a minimum of something. It must be one thing: that farmers will not have any harm from this law but only benefit.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1241	Thank you very much. The delegation of Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1242	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, given that I am a member of the Constitutional Legal Commission and since I was present at one meeting and another when we spoke about the Proposal for a Law on Agriculture, I think we can fully accept this argument from Mrs. Majkić... which we heard from the Commission and the opinion we received from the Commission: that there is a valid constitutional basis, that the proposed text of the law is in line with the Constitution of BiH and that it can be referred to further procedure. I think that this report of this commission can and should be accepted, with this in mind that I would suggest here, that, in accordance with the conclusions of the House of Representatives, a public debate be held, given the complexity of the issues regulated by this law, given the great interest of all factors in BiH and that the amendment phase should be extended to the conclusion of the public debate. Because we'll certainly be able to have a lot of amendments... that will be invested. I think on that side we'd get a chance for everyone who's interested to take part in the procedure and hear a statement 37 finally about the text of this law. We have defined and clear and precise views on all these issues that we have talked about today and about every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1243	Thank you very much. Are there any more interested? Before I make a statement about the law, I will support this law just to point out. There is one country in the EU that has two agriculture ministers, who rotate where they represent their country and when they have a consensus vote "yes", and when they do not have "sustained", now, and the country is not BiH. A little joke, a little joke. What? It's not a joke. It's not a joke. It's a joke. So I'm putting on a proposal for a law on agriculture, whether there's a need, so in the first reading, there's a vote. Who Is For? Who Is “against ”? With one vote "against" and now 11 "for" us again, this law was adopted in the first reading. We had another proposal to conclude. I don't know if we'll make a statement about him. Delegate, I must, the delegation of Koprivica has proposed a public debate on this law, I don't know if the House declares it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1244	Let the competent committee conduct these discussions, suggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1245	Here, well, here's just a second before you; in some small consultation, we thought it would be good for the commission that will be in charge of this law to consider and see the justification of this and if there is a need for a statement to organise it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Say it, say it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1250	Dear Chairman, you have received, as have all the delegates of the House of Peoples, a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication that did not accept the principles of this law, so it gave a negative opinion: of the five members of the Commission, two were "for", two "against" and one "abstained". Because during the debate, we appreciated the opinion of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, which explicitly stated in their opinions that there are enough mechanisms for ensuring customs debt prescribed by existing laws and sublaws. So the proposal for this law that came to this home from the House of Representatives, and its proposal was the Trade and Customs Commission of the House of Representatives, that this law is too high, means that the regulation of these provisions in this way as proposed is excessive, that means there are enough mechanisms in the existing law. However, in the debate it is... pointed out that, perhaps, this issue should be re-examined by and the Administration for indirect taxation that implements the law, and also by the Ministry of Economic Relations and..., I do not know how to call it exactly now, which gave such an opinion, meaning that it might be good to return this report negative to the Commission again, to try to come to some better solutions so that this law would definitely not be withdrawn from the procedure. Well, I suggest that if you agree to give the House the conclusion that the report will be returned, this law will return to the Commission for consideration.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1251	Thank you very much. Delegate Majkić. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1252	I don't think that Mrs. Čolo's proposal should be adopted, for the simple reason that we're used to everything we get from the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission of the House of Representatives, is mainly about lobbying things that are related to the company "Lijanović“, from there encourages most of these requirements. And in this case, the same thing, therefore, has become a problem that almost everything, all the suggestions that come from that commission, therefore, separated from this company, falls to our House. So, I don't see any reason after what the Ministry explained at the session, the reasons it cited, the arguments it made, yes, and I just heard so, and I realized to you, that there are enough mechanisms that there should not be any suspicious mechanisms that – why should the state of the final rule believe. I do not see any argument that speaks in favour that this should be returned to the Commission for review and I propose that votes be voted on by the Commission's Report.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1253	Just before we go any further, is there a word, since I don't have any information on me: What is the state of this law in the House of Representatives? So, he's passed the whole law. All right, well, let's just get some information. First he asked for the word Mr Ibrahimpašić, then Mr Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1254	I'd just like to remind you. I guess the promoter wanted to help the businessmen that when they have some big imports they don't have to hire their money right away, if they don't have it, not borrow money from the bank, or take bank guarantees, because it costs everything. And the producer's exchange... doesn't cost anything. But she's a real charger by law, I'll tell you how I do it. So when someone doesn't pay me any debts, I give it to the bank, the bank gives me a report that I don't have any money in my account, I give it to the court and the court hits the execution clause. And now, unfortunately, from that court execution to the actual execution, we have a vacuum, because the notaries won't do it, don't I know who made it possible for them to do it? So, to take that debtor of mine to the firm what he has and to... sell, so I can charge myself. And because the state didn't allow us to collect my claims, she's afraid she won't even collect her claims, and it's up to her. That's why I was there for this, and it's not true that the ministry was against it, it even made a paper that was made by the Directorate for indirect taxation for the reasons that you cited the suspension. He'd... do everything right now and do nothing and that's the technology. So, the indirect tax administration won't give you anything or allow you to hire her to do a little more. It's also a matter of alcohol excises, this thing I insist on, everything on the border, so people who use alcohol as a... repromaterial pay excise on it at the border like they import whiskey. To make it easier for them, and there was a way before, four years ago, it was that regulation as to how to push it. So that's why I am helping these businessmen and making the state complete the use of the currency as it is everywhere in the world. After all, the proposal left discretionary rights for customs authorities to tell whom they will take it from, from whom they will not. The one they suspect doesn't have to, they don't have to take it. But for the sake of ease, 40 for the comfort you were talking about, and now I'm taking the opportunity to apologize for that quote that the rich spend more, I read it because it's their conclusion, because it's really funny. And I apologize for using it from that whole thing. It's all because of the comforts of the people at the Department of Direct Taxation, so that they can charge easier without being hired by God knows how. That's why I'm voting for what Alma was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1255	Thank you, thank you very much. I can, can I, delegate Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1256	I'm just asking for a moment to explain. So, the Commission's report is negative, and I'm here as chairman of the Commission. The House today decides on this report: if the House accepts such a report from the Commission as negative, this law is considered rejected. However, I am in front of the Bosniak People's Club: the position of the club is such that if the Commission's report is rejected, that is all if – so we should first vote on this report that I signed – if the report is refused, then return to the Commission, that Dom should conclude to return to the Commission to look at all these possibilities, in line with this, the Ministry. So here I suggest we vote on the Commission's report, and then, of course, we'll see what the outcome of that vote will be.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1257	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1258	Please, ladies, let me comment on his name, Rules of Procedure. You didn't get along well. Mrs. Čolo said there were two options, and that's true. One option to accept the report and this law falls and another option to reject the report and return it to the Commission, which still leaves the law alive and comes back to the House, right? And it's perfectly in line with the procedure, because that's how we used to plead. I ask the delegate Vidović to take his word for it after he has answered, and yet I would suggest to Dom that we hear if someone from the Ministry has an opinion, if he has one, but good. Delegate Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1259	Thank you very much. So I'm thinking the next way. Therefore, an attempt to introduce rules in customs policy, therefore also by a particular group of representatives or commissions, should be appreciated. So this is a complex issue and I appreciate the efforts made by the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs of the House of Representatives. And we talked seriously about it on our committee in our home and, therefore, not going in and repeating everything we said together, I think that the law should be kept in the process and that those opinions that we received that brought us into the dilemma, in fact especially by the competent ministry, are not completely clear, so 41 are not fully defined. However, it is clear from the directorate, or indirect taxation management, that this is unacceptable. For these reasons, it was actually such a result and it was this, I would say, at the border. Therefore, I absolutely support the proposal of our chairman of our committee, so this law should keep in the procedure that it would be desirable to return it to the Committee for Cooperation and collect in the meantime, therefore, a clearer opinion of the competent Ministry of Foreign Trade which it is,... is not to me, and as it was on our commission, many were not fully clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1260	Okay, well, there's no, I mean, since it's not clear to the Commission, you probably can't give it any clearer right now. So I can't see, I don't see any reason for the Ministry to plead. Are there any more interested? If he doesn't, we have a statement ahead of us. Therefore, the Commission's report should now be made known. Who is "for" to adopt the Commission Report? Four votes "yes". Who Is “against ”? Two, four, five. Right: two, four, five. Who is “abstained ”? Were you all “against ”? I'm sorry, I haven't seen, I've been watching and counting: one, two, three, four, five, Mr. Jović, six, seven, and two, "abstained". Therefore, most votes were rejected by the Commission's report. And does there need an entity, is here going entity content in the decision-making process? Since the three delegates were "against", i.e. that virtually no one was "for", excuse me, I apologize. Niko one was "for", therefore, there is no entity majority. The Commission’s report was therefore not rejected. Right? What this formal-law now, not most votes were rejected, but the majority of the votes it was rejected had no entity third. Right? No one voted "yes".
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1261	Most of the Federation were "for".
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1262	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1263	The other entity did not support it, but there are more than one third that were "against", so we should agree, so... in the College, there is no entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1264	There's no entity majority, no entity majority, and the conclusion goes to co-ordination in the College, no. I apologize, delegate Neimarlija. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1265	The acceptance didn't go away. So if the acceptance hasn't passed, then he's been cancelled. Who, we are, can I... All right, fellow Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1266	Okay, well, actually, you're right. I was, the question was, "Who's for" the report? And there was no supremacy, there was no supremacy of the majority, and the report was not accepted. You're right, I apologize. Therefore, the report shall be returned to the Commission for a readmission. Thank you very much. I apologize for this little distraction, because whoever's "against" who's "for" is a little disruptive. Moving to point 14. Ad. 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You have received the Bill's proposal (Proposer of the Council of Ministers), a report from the committee responsible. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. The House of Representatives passed this law, this is the first reading of the law. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles of the law. Who's answering for a word? Delegate Alma Čolo, delegate Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1268	The Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy from whose domain this law discussed this law this morning in its first reading, meaning in the first commission phase, and supported the principles of this law, since the introduction of biometric passports is the harmonisation of BiH's legislation with EU legislation and with the 2004 EU Council Regulation. This will ensure that BiH travel documents are safer than counterfeiting, and BiH will fulfil its obligations under the EU Visa Facilitation Agreement, because we are committed... when we conclude the agreement that we will introduce biometric passports. However,... means the Commission supports the principles of this law, but I would now like to go ahead of the Bosniak People's Club to express one view that the Bosniak Club will support this law, but in a further phase, meaning, in the second phase when this law is being considered in the House of Peoples, we want to point out one fact, and that is that the contents of travel documents that were previously in Parliament's jurisdiction, so Parliament has established by law the content of travel documents, now by amending the Law on travel documents, which is on the agenda today, the contents of travel documents are moving to the level of the sublaw. Thus, the sublaw provides for the content of travel documents and this law stipulates that the content will be determined by sublaw 43 of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. We stand at the point that if the sublegal act regulates it, that this sublaw act should be passed by the Council of Ministers, and in this direction we will make an amendment in the amendment phase, because we think that the Ministry of Civil Affairs cannot take over this very important matter in terms of content, editing the contents of travel documents. Since it's been a legal matter so far and... we're going to propose an amendment to bring this sublegal act to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1269	Okay, that's something that's just coming. Delegate Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1270	So we are talking about principles and we see that the Ministry of Civil Affairs has prepared, and the Council of Ministers has adopted information on the process of introducing biometric passports. The plan envisions the release of these passports starting on 1 November 2008 and we know that there is much work to be done by then. It is up to us to this section relating to the regulation of legislation, and for the Ministry to provide technical and personnel training to carry out this work. Therefore, the envisaged amendments to the law provide for the gradual introduction of biometric passports for BiH citizens, because current passports means they will not have to replace them immediately, but only after the expiry of their importance, and certainly, this approval has been accepted because this is well designed to avoid excessive crowds and unnecessary costs for issuing a new travel document. It is the obligation of the Parliamentary Assembly to adopt, as soon as possible, amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents, and the Ministry of Civil Affairs to complete its obligations within the deadline and to carry out preparations in order to meet this deadline. The Council of Ministers announced that certain funds for the implementation of this project were already planned in the 2008 budget. I have heard that these funds amount to 2.4 million for software and equipment and 3.2 million for 600,000 passport forms. We know that the citizens of our country will be able to make it easier for biometric passports to obtain visas, but at the same time it will protect them from the many inconveniences and humiliations they have suffered for years standing before foreign embassies. The introduction of a biometric passport is also an obligation in BiH to continue the visa liberalisation process, and a biometric passport, unlike the current travel documents, has a chip that will contain basic data on the owner. So it is known that the price of the biometric passport remains only open and that it is said to depend on who will print the passports. It is expected that it will not be more expensive than the current passports, and it would really be bad if the new passports were more expensive. However, it is necessary to publicly invite local printeries to prepare for the printing of new passports, and that in the required quality, but would certainly affect its price and, in accordance with all the elements I have spoken of, I propose that this proposal be adopted in the first reading by the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Road document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1271	Thank you very much. Any other interested in the debate? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. 44 We're going to vote. Who is "for" to adopt the bill in the first reading? ‘Non’? No "maintenanced" available. Thank you. I find that we unanimously passed this law in our first reading. We move on to the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Fines of BiH. Excuse me, did I skip? 15. The bill of law, that's why I'm on... Ad. 15. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You have received the draft law as well as the Commission's report. The Commission accepted the principles of law, and the House of Representatives adopted the bill in the first reading. So this is the first reading of the law, it's about principles and necessity. I'm opening a debate. Are there any interested? Delegate Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1273	Therefore, it is known that the initiative to pass this law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of BiH is launched by the Council of Ministers, and the reason for the adoption of amendments and additions to this law lies in the definition and criteria on the basis of which, in a better way, selection in the process of approving the use of the name of BiH to legal persons, with the aim of promoting Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests both internally and internationally. Accordingly, the Serbian People's Delegates Club will support the principles of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1274	Thank you. Is there any further? There isn't. If not, I'm putting the bill on first-reading voting. Who Is For? Is it “against ”? "Restraint" is not available. Thank you. I find that we adopted this bill unanimously in our first reading. We're going to point 16. That's 45 Ad. 16. Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Law (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers So, again, all we're talking about is the principles and necessity, or necessity of the law. The House of Representatives passed the bill in the first reading. I'm opening a debate. Are there any interested? There isn't. Then we can plead. Who is “for ” the bill in the first reading? Is it “against ”? No "maintenanced" available. Thank you. I agree that we adopted the draft law amending the Bosnia and Herzegovina Law in the first reading. Moving to point 17. It's "Ad." 17. Proposal for a law on denationalisation (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1277	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it's a good thing that one of these important and huge issues has been addressed as to what is the issue of denationalisation and what has come up with this legal project, but I think that... the path that has set out to address this issue is not good. This law should have been previously declared by the National Assembly of the RS. Therefore, the entities should have previously declared themselves because the issue of denationalisation was in the entity's jurisdiction and this issue, the problem of denationalisation, was dealt with by entities in the past time, i.e. the National Assembly of the RS. I was an MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of RS in '99. the year when this legislative project was adopted, but when the High Representative intervened, not to abolish this law, but 46 so that some of its solutions that were then in force and which, in his opinion, could not be put out of force. What is significant is that the Republic Board of Geodesic, Property and Legal Affairs of Banja Luka considered the text of this law when it appeared and what it stated, wrote a very large number of concrete remarks on this legal text, which in one part are extremely general. Therefore, the comments made on this legal text and which came from the RS are essential. Therefore, the adoption of the law and the attempt to make these amendments, i.e. those proposals made from RS, could not produce results in this legal text. That is why I propose that this legal text, as we have here today before us, not be adopted, that it return to its work and that the legal text be included after its completion and after taking into account these strong remarks that have come from the Office for Geodetic and Property Law Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia, and that afterwards be found on the agenda. So much and thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1278	Thank you very much. Here you go. Delegate Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1279	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members and colleagues, I have no intention today... in the first meeting with this text of the law to enter into the depths, but I just want to express my human and political satisfaction that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a bill like this came before lawmakers to try to correct these great injustices that the former regime has done to innocent people, taking away literally their property. As much as I am on the one hand, and as a man, happy that these injustices will be partly mitigated, I am as concerned about whether we have the strength and as a society, or as a community and as a state, to bear the material costs of this law. I'm afraid that the approximations that have been presented here in an explanation are quite problematic and I personally don't believe that with this amount of funds that are being operated, they can resolve those issues that will be subject to the law on the return of the seized property. But regardless of what will cause different reactions in the public, and most people will be happy, they will be satisfied that the most legislative body is turning to solving one of the many injustices in the past, and it is likely that there will be a feeling of bitterness in people who will say: why should we be a generation that has to correct all historical injustices. But here we are, who have lived and lived in this time, and we have a responsibility to try to correct these injustices. But I would therefore join in a certain way what Mr. Šaraba thought before me, which does not necessarily mean that in a technical sense, the law must be returned to work, but that, with full seriousness and maximum commitment, we all turn together towards the completion of this law in the direction that it is comprehensive, that it be maximumly responsible and that we do not get a law that will be another fraud, but that it will be a law that will be realistically enforceable. 47 Once again welcoming the appearance of this law, I end my own, my contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1280	Thank you very much. Are there any more interested? Delegate Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1281	So, I agree with only one principle laid down in this law, which is that criteria should be established, principles, priorities by which a return procedure would be imposed. It's the only principle I could accept. Everyone else is controversial. And here's to reason with them. At the initiative of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in April 2004, the Council of Ministers made a decision establishing a Committee for Restitution. Here's to four years of how the Commission did? Who did she answer to? Who are her members? How did this proposal happen? There are comments of some who... accepted, some unaccepted. We don't even have, except for the information that this was adopted by the Council of Ministers, we don't have any resolute ministry this law should belong to. Who's going to deal with it? We have this commission that was founded in 2004 and that put this proposal on the table and we have nothing more. The second thing, he said: The commission's task (defined by the Council of Ministers) was to prepare the text of the law on the basis of a comprehensive legal and operational analysis, making sure that legal solutions must ensure the economic and fiscal sustainability of BiH's entity and Brcko District. I don't see any argument that proves it. We've seen how many problems we've had with our old foreign exchange savings, which is an incomparably minor problem. Under three: The decision to establish a Commission for Restitution, or Denationalisation, as after the name has been changed, found that the BiH Restitution Commission established by this Decision is responsible for the preparation of the Framework Law on Restitution. Does it say anywhere that it's a framework law? I didn't see it. So, framework law! Under four: As a balance of material opportunities to implement denationalisation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Commission took into account the macroeconomic stability of the country and its entities, and as evidence of this, hence the material possibilities and implementation of denationalisation, the Commission draws attention to the findings of the study done by the Faculty of Economics in Sarajevo, which is given in support of the reasoning of the bill. Where is he, where is this study? That study is gone and not included! So it's listed in the text, it's gone. It doesn't say how it was done, which is a guarantee of the quality of the study and on what basis, on what basis, because that attitude is written. Next, listen, listen further, how many things there are to be discussed and who are self-controversy to themselves. So this is one pearl. He says: As part of the preparation for the adoption of legislation that would allow for the return of the seized property to former owners, i.e. their legal followers, an analysis of the forced confiscation of assets and possible routes and of its reprivatisation in which it is exposed to the socio-political aspect of ownership restructuring, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina at its meeting of 48 17.6.'91. A year. Well, I mean, as if history here for 15 years doesn't exist anywhere, no one else... has ever seen this before except this commission that pulls some continuity from '91. A year. I could count by tomorrow. So, one raw material behind which I don't see any ministry standing, and I know if there's anyone here from this ministry who would say a few words about it. It's not right to release this kind of material. And if it stays like this, the Serb people's delegates' club will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1282	Thank you very much. Delegate Filipović asked for it, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1283	I was simply called by this discussion of the distinguished colleague Majkić to say a few sentences, and then to ask the President of the Commission or the Commission, as it was called, for restitution, so we later changed that name to the Law on Denationalisation. Here he was present, Mr Mustafa Begić, and since I was a member of this task force in front of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, not only of the House of Peoples, and was a participant of serious work for over a year, so in the work of this commission, with the consideration of all similar offices of the neighbouring countries, which some have already implemented such a law, some of us in the implementation of this law and, therefore, using positive experiences of newly created states, failed former states such as Slovenia, Macedonia and Croatia, have done several offices and delivered it to the job manager, because the Council of Ministers appointed a working group that was supposed to do this job which was now done and the Council of Ministers continued in several sessions, so they discussed all this and definitely in the 9th month, 20.9 last year, established this proposal which was now on our benches. So, the task force was appointed by the Council of Ministers, according to my findings, in agreement with both entities. From the entity where you come from, Mrs. Majkić, he was a member of Milenko Cviljan, a man who works at the Geodetic Authority who made these numerous remarks. He was even another man, therefore, if we can treat him as a representative of the Serb people, from Brcko District. So, the Brcko District was involved, too, it was Mr. Šehovac, I think, representatives of the Federation, the Council of Ministers and Parliament. It could be said that it was practically an inter-resor group that had worked for a very long time, and it was under the watchful eye of the international community, followed by our work of OHR people, from the OSCE, from the U.S. Embassy, as you saw in the explanation of the text of the proposal for a law on denationalisation that a congress decision by the United States Congress which called for countries that lived in totalitarian systems as we did, because the kidnapping of private property and the creation of insecurity of people was not in any system except for totalitarian, Nazi and communism. We had an example of seeing in Hungary we were: three million people from that now EU country has applied after the adoption of their law on the return of the seized property. This law says, today we are discussing the necessity of adopting this law and the principles on which this law is based, and that is what we should discuss today, not entering into what the relevant commission will decide whether or not it will. I think it will, because this is the kind of law that all those who are in one lupe way expect, I would say, that's how I lose my private property, so real estate and things of special value. You know, when you take away a 49-year-old real estate, you take away one real estate, it might be easier to get over than some family memory that someone keeps, 100 years old, 200 years old, and it goes away and ends up somewhere in a private collection or a museum outside of the country, where that property is enjoyed with love from the one she was kidnapped from. It has always been cursed and I am an absolute advocate to return it to everyone as much as possible in the natural form of what was taken if they are alive, if they are not, the law stipulates that it should be returned to their heirs legally. It's being treated here and the order to which, etc. I don't want to get into the details. In fact, I would like to appeal to this home that we do not stop one noble idea from bringing a righteous one, so at least let a law that wants to remove in an improper way so that we can remove what is wrong, in one forced way, taken through various laws. You see they are listed in article 3 of this text, so there are very, very, very many, therefore, of those who have had something. Because at some point someone estimated who had power over both the land and the people in that country that it was a lot to have business space. No one can have a hotel, no one can have a factory, and it just over so many squares has become some state property, and we know that what was state was nobody's and everyone's. In fact, it was not only possible to use and enjoy the fruits of these kidnapped things to those whose property it was before. So I'm removing it, that's where someone was doing it the way it was said to work. It was done very systematically, it was done with help and those who had passed these processes in the countries of transition close to us, so the neighbours and applied somehow, as I say, the most just norms that proved to be good at returning therefore private property to the one whose it was. I mentioned names, so I mentioned people by name and last name from one entity, so the Brcko District, that here we remove that suspicion that it was done without any agreement and conversation, even opinions. We have a working group on several occasions who have been authorised by the Ministry of Finance, which can be confirmed by the president here, so both entities. The word is exactly what Mr. Božo Rajić said, he expressed one doubt about how to pass the law and how to implement the law. So, from where this country's material power to enforce one such law. That's the question... it was always there in the task force. In the first version, the implementation of this law was scheduled to take place within 10 years, and it was done on the basis of the repayment deadline for the seized property as it was in the then unchanged text of the Treaty between BiH and the Holy See, and we wanted those repayment deadlines to be within the same deadlines. Therefore, the proposal for a law on denationalisation and the Treaty are treated in their principles, having, therefore, human principles to return everything possible to return in natural form and land as regards both real estate and things of other values which the law recognises as such. What can't return to return adequate property to that value in that area, so that's another human being one fine one principle and, if neither can, to pay it adequately. These are the three principles that bind us as humans if we look with the same eye on our current private property and on the property of those who have lost their property, without that property. Of course, there's the interest of every citizen who's lost his property because he could inherit something from his grandfather or his brother-in-law that he didn't inherit. If it's gone, it's out, if the state changed that way at the time, so that property of the owner, of course people of 50 are looking at it with all their real estate, they're looking at it in my city. So, the private hotel is Bristol, so I know the people who owned that hotel, so those who don't live God knows how rich... but they pass every day by their property, which was their father and grandfather's property. So, and now many such ones, so this is also about the economic capacities of factories etc. I'll try to cut time short, I apologize, I could talk for a long, long time on this subject. So, how to tell these citizens and, on the one hand, who expect it to come back to them, because it's been said for years and how it's been said to the representatives of the religious communities in this country, who have also been robbed, and in one ballast way it's left without the most valuable properties, including land, buildings, present playgrounds, some fields, some courtyards, some kind of forest, and this big area that's measured by thousands of hectares. So, that's something that asks us all a moral question: Do we have the right to protect our apartment and our house that we... have acquired for life and will inherit our children, if-God, and in the same way not to look at the property that someone had and then according to these laws that were counted here in this law have been left without that property! And I will conclude, here is the president of the task force Mr. Begić, I would like to make a clear decision on the principles of this law that we may hear him, and I would say that this text did not come just like that, established by the Council of Ministers unanimously and left him in parliamentary procedure. I'm afraid that this text of the bill on denationalisation and restitution, however you like, it's in the process and can change its name in the end line, but I'd be very sorry. I would mourn it as a man, as a person who has given very much in creating such a single text, fighting for such principles as this law, if this parliament would stop this, if this Parliament would refuse and definitely say that we live in a democratic Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that we act like those who took it and weren't democratic systems, because then we didn't live in a democratic system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1284	Thank you very much. First the delegate Čolo, then the delegate, and the replica, I didn't get it. We have a replica first.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1285	So, 90% of what Mr Filipović said, I would sign right away. And what you said, you didn't say anything against what I didn't consider. But let me ask you a question, given that you have been ordered by the Council of Ministers to establish a Committee for Restitution, which is tasked with preparing a framework law on BiH's restitution... Why didn't you respect it as a commission? So this isn't a framework law. That's the first question. Another question, which I ask and which will cause the most noise in the public: By law, the seized property of the authorised, or former owner, is the right to compensation, so denationalisation, the fee in money is paid only for the seized property, and at a maximum amount of 150 thousand marks. So it doesn't matter how much property it was. Was that worth 2.5 billion marks, is that key there some exclusive Sarajevo 150 grand? Well, do you think that won't result in a bunch of charges for unfair compensation, isn't that a threat to human rights? 51 Therefore, the Commission did not adhere to the principles laid down for it. She has not made arguments that such a law will not jeopardise the fiscal sustainability of the country and entities. Let me remind you, Mr Filipović, we are from the urban, or, as the institution is called, for the republican, Geodetic and Property Legal Office, which you say the representatives participated in: seven pages of objections to the law. Every ministry that's been watching the law has been negatively commenting on it. So we can have no understanding and I respect your good intentions, but we know that the path to hell is paved with good intentions and I have to have some other argument in favour of not making the wrong decision. So, please don't realize that there's no one who would be more pleased to have this law passed, but we can't bring it this far forward and with all these mistakes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1286	Thank you very much. Since it was a replica, a little. Well, if you do.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1287	So I have to. So, precision just... since all this is being recorded, I'm not here to authorise the Council of Ministers to defend their proposal, which came here. I spoke here in the role of so with a little bit more knowledge of that, because you've made a few inaccuracies and that's what I'm asking you to say. You agreed with 90%, I'm overjoyed by that, those arguments I gave. So it's not the commission that worked or the commission wrongly why it's called the law, not the framework law. Proposer. We were just the black labor that did that job for the client. The client was the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers has been able to reject, process, process, supplement, amend, etc. and decided to come in this context with this name. As for the macroeconomic stability of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it was a matter that plagued the commission as long as it worked and tortured the Council of Ministers when it established the proposal, when it launched parliamentary procedures. And it has been found that the deadline given 20 years is possible that Bosnia and Herzegovina will naturally return and implement this law, in a natural sense. And why did she set herself up for this provision? So please all of these, all of these provisions, the complete bill is subject to changes, changes, different opinions, etc. I, therefore, would no longer appear, would ask the House once again to accept this law in the first reading, but to recommend to the relevant committee that, together with the relevant committee of the House of Representatives, carry out a long, strong, quality debate, including all relevant factors in this country. So I'll just tell you one thing. I stayed fragrant, so in a negative sense, discussing getting back to everyone as soon as possible. We had a debate in the building of the Economic Institute, and at the end of the debate, I saw that there was something floating in my air, and something illogical. The resistance of some people at the Economic Institute because the Economic Institute, the Faculty of Economics, is owned by the Serbian Orthodox Church, and they are in the interest of keeping as far away as possible, possibly not being bad, perhaps not happening...application of this law in order to stay where they are. You know, I was fragrant, so I give that fact, so morally human and fair of us to let this law go in the first reading, to conduct a debate, so we invite everyone we – we have, we have got the document of the Economic Institute, all the variations have been worked out, the macro-economic instability removed, and 52 countries in the application of this law – therefore, invite people to report all that to get out of the land books. They have many people preserved it, and then they'll definitely be seen with what dynamics they'll come back to be kidnapped in 20 years, which could be damned if we don't do as the bill says.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1288	Thank you. I'll start applying the Rules of Procedure, you know, but I'm kind of letting go now, a little, a little... more. Not just with you, but otherwise... I'll apply a little more often to the Rules of Procedure. But good. Is there more? Mrs. Čolo, then Mr. Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1289	Chairman, I'm sorry the debate took place during this period. Mr Filipović spoke more about the essence of the law, and... Mrs. Majkić somehow spoke with disrespect about the effort that this task force had made and it was quite surprising to me, with an indication that she was an informed delegate. ... As I recall, a decision on the appointment of members of this commission has been published in the "Official Messenger of BiH" and, as far as I know, in the work of this commission, our top experts, such as Mr. Begić, longtime director of the Republic Board for Geodetic Property and Legal Affairs of BiH, were found in the commission. He's here, I see him, sit down. This is hard work, believe me, they didn't come easily to this text, and we here today just need to make a statement about the principles of this law, and I'd like to look back on its point of view that we don't have a real ministry that cares about this law. It's not prescribed anywhere. The proposal of this law is the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers was supposed to send its representative here and I'm guessing it's authorized the chairman of the Commission, who worked on this bill, so if he wants to, I think he could give us some preliminary clarifications. It's not right that this is how we treat both the effort and the credibility of the people who worked on this document.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1290	Replica one more. All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1291	I have not underestimated the work of the Commission with any gesture. I'm looking for answers. Why isn't the framework of the law that's supposed to be indicative? Why is this if, I was telling the arguments, I wasn't talking in my head, I was quoting parts of the law. And if it's a demeaning thing, I have a right to my position. Allow me, we don't have to have the same attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1292	Thank you very much. Delegate Ibrahimpašić, I will give you my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1293	I'd just like to remind all of you of something. It takes me a long time to remember, '96. In a Parliament called Parliament of the Federation and of the Republic of BiH, remember that, this law was on the benches! He was called the Restitution Act. Watch out, '96. It's 12 years till today. It takes 12 years, but there's no political will to bite this sour apple. So we have to look at ourselves 53 in hunger, and say, "Are we in favor of bringing back to people who have been kidnapped, or are we not?" If we are to give it back to them, let's support our principles, and then, I agree, we all question if we should, but it can't be our principle we won't return. Or, we're beating it up, which is not true, '96. Now I'm saying, that's what I had. About the ability of the state, the part that stays on the cash, so they have securities, it's got a lot of stuff! Let the people admit it's theirs! There's a lot to come out of. Just one example of me here, mine. So I have an interest in voting for this law. My field is up to the city's border and it's nationalized. It's not that field across the street. According to that old law, he's right, so across the street from me, if they didn't build him anything, they took the land to give it back to him after five years, and I have no right, because it's nationalized across the stream. So you have to do it. Nothing the state will have to do with me. What she wants to sell, I know how to sell, but I'll be held back if I have to, but let's vote that we'll give people back what's theirs, or we won't. These are principles and I agree that we question everything, in substance, however we turn. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1294	Delegate Vidović. Well, I'm still thinking of giving Mr. Begić a chance to give in short lines.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1295	Thank you very much. I'll take my thinking out for a while. Respecting the real efforts of the people and the committees who did, regardless of who it was, professionally or not, we have, in front of us, an important law which therefore proposed by the Council of Ministers and I am experiencing it as such, and I am one of those who initially supported it. Not because it is proposed by the Council of Ministers but for reasons that I could list by tomorrow, according to my colleague Majkić, by tomorrow, can list the reasons why this law should not be supported. I could list, too, the reasons why I think it should be supported in this present form as it is offered to continue to develop in a way that would make this public debate and all those who can make their own professional contribution, that this law might gain its true value. However, the most important reason why, and only one, I want to support it is actually to allow many BiH institutions and citizens to have what they're talking about to exercise their rights. In what form, in which way, in which method, it remains actually through the development of this law, let's see. So, I am one of those who am loudly and spiritually supportive and I will support so today and give my contribution in future debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1296	I'm asking that we take a break for lunch before we make a statement about this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1297	Okay. We'll see. But before that, I think I do, I would ask, Mr. Begić – so is the problem – then you, Mr. Neimarlija. Come on for a while, Mr. Begić, but I'm really asking you to do it in just five or six minutes because some delegates have asked to hear the attitude. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1298	The esteemed presidency, honourable MPs, I will try as soon as I can to point to the work of the Commission and, as far as this commission has been handling this text of the law. I would first point out that BiH has not been dealing with the issue and the problem of return of the seized property since '45. And here we go. We have explained in reason that the genealogy of this begins from the preparation for the '90 elections. A year. At that time, all political parties in their performances promised to return the seized property in their statements. It was a political commitment for us, and these parties are still the ruling parties today, and I appreciate that they will certainly critically... look back at this law, help to further complete it. Based on such a commitment, an analysis has been carried out on the assets seized and possible reprivatisation routes. It was done in '91. A year. The analysis passed by the then government and passed by parliament. It has also been adopted by the Government, it has been adopted by Parliament and a Commission has been formed to prepare the Law on Denationalisation. But it came to pass, that law stopped. Entities tried, the RS entity... passed one law, so passed another law and partially implemented, but the high representative appreciated that it should wait for the law to be passed at BiH level and to continue the work, as BiH is the only country in the transition that has yet to approach the return of the seized property. What I think, when this commission was formed, it was formed on an entity level. BiH has brought... The Council of Ministers formed this commission. Three members from the RS, three members from the Federation and three members from... Parliament and the tenth member was not a member of this commission but an observer from Brcko District. That commission has been working for two years. But I would just point out, when it comes to commissions, finance ministers from all three groups are members of the Commission. So, RS Finance Minister, Federation Finance Minister and BiH Finance Minister. Their personal task was to help the Commission look at the country's macroeconomic and financial stability, so that the Commission would not make an oversight there and not bring both BiH and entities and the Brcko District into financial, say, collapse one. We in the Commission appreciated that it is very difficult to enter a project like this without the help of science and we have assessed that the Institute of Economics can help us. The Commission has commissioned a study on the feasibility of restitution in BiH. I don't know, the lady said she didn't get that study, the Commission distributed the study to all those who got the law, they got it on the CD and the study. Since the study contains a lot of material, then it went to a CD, and we appreciated that it was easier for MPs to work with a CD than with papers. One of the important issues raised by the Commission at the beginning of its work was the date on which it started to return assets. She was there in '18. It was there in '41. and '42. and '43. And '45. And in '53. We, given that all our neighbours and other countries in totalitarian regimes have accepted '45. as the starting year for the return of property, we appreciated that, if we translate and interpret the totalitarian regime, it is, apart from Russia, mainly in all these countries of origin of '45. A year. Russia was from '17. A year. What we've been dealing with, that's the question: How deep do we go into restitution? How much to catch that? Given the economic power of BiH, its entities, the Brcko District, I would only introduce you to one: if it were somewhere in '54. In BiH, there were 53 agricultural organisations and 55 mountain goods, which owned about 900,000 hectares of land, ranging from agricultural to forest. Now, all these lands are abandoned land. We don't have any more agricultural organizations, we don't have mountain goods, but we have an abandoned country that, let's just say, hash out how who knows and washes. And we said that BiH has social property, has state-owned land and that it is best to go with the maximum natural restitution, to return everything that can be returned. Which can't be returned originally, to return to a replacement property, and if it can't be replaced, then financial compensation comes into question. The restitution feasibility study has shown us that we cannot exceed two billion in financial compensation over the next 20 years, because it has been conducting budget analysis, Budget and BiH and entity budgets and we have remained at that level. That's 150,000 marks, that's exceptions. We appreciate that BiH will make maximum use of natural restitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1299	Mr. Begić, one more minute!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1300	I'll be done soon.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1301	One more minute!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1302	When it comes to whether entity, whether this law at the state level, we appreciated that it was meant to be a division of tasks: an entity, a Brcko District and a state, and we said: a first-degree procedure is being conducted on entities and the Brcko District, and a second-degree procedure, in order to level the criteria, to run at the state level. When it comes to remarks, we have received remarks from the RS Ministry of Finance that I appreciate that they are well embedded. The material the lady was talking about, from the Republic Administration, really didn't come to this commission. He probably came to be the subject of both discussion and consideration as other remarks were. And yet, in the end, the biggest media interest in this law was from the RS. He was also interested in the Federation, a lot of institutions, citizens, and today citizens call us, are interested in the fate of the law and are interested in certain solutions. I would ask, indeed, regardless of the effort that has been made, but in relation to the people who are waiting, the people who are waiting for this law are waiting for their property to return to them, that... others do not have it without them, that they should be allowed into public procedure, and that we did not expect in the Commission that there would be no benefit and good remarks to build up this law and to measure BiH's powers and to satisfy...the citizens of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1303	Thank you very much. The time has passed. ...was a request for a break, and I think it's good to be before the break, but before that, delegate Neimarlija asked for a few notes. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1304	I'll try three sentences. So it's a law that shows the credibility of our legal and political system. This is the beginning of the process in Parliament, not the end of this law, and that is why I would plead to delegates to have in mind the importance and weight of the process that is ahead of us, but also the fact that in the event of its removal, or the rejection of its principles at this very first stage, the first phase that is almost...less important, if I didn't say, we would send a bad message, because this is the law that has long been pending and the law through which our system and legal and political... passed a test of its credibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1305	Thank you very much. If there are no more interested, I suggest we stop now, so we have a statement after lunch break. I suggest, if you agree, that we still work longer today, that we leave at 3:00, if that's enough, or at 3:15, come on. Let's get it started at 3:00, so if we do, we'll see if someone's gonna be late for the sequel. So make it 3:00. [[PAUZA]] Let's keep working. We took a break before we made a statement... on point 17. From what I understand, the president of the Serbian People's Club has one proposal on how to get out of this state, try to preserve the law, talk about it, so I would suggest we hear her proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1307	I propose to the House that, therefore, today we do not plead on the bill's proposal but wait for the public debate to end, wait for the opinion of the metrics and those who are interested in this law and then vote on this agenda. Otherwise, everyone, every other insistence on today's statement, would mean that the law will fall.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1308	To be clear, we would not have organized a public debate but a House of Representatives, who... adopted in the first reading and certainly went into public debate. I don't think that's a bad idea. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1309	Together, together. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1310	I don't think it's a bad idea, I don't know, here. Mr. Filipović. Let's go to compromise.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1311	You see, this proposal saves the law from falling. But I'm not afraid of the threat of you breaking the law. You take him down and you take responsibility for bringing down a law like this. That's one thing. I don't like blackmail. So no blackmail anyone should, if it is, we'll knock down the law. I mean, listen, I want to tell you that what you suggested is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the People's House. We have received from an authorised promoter, follow the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and we have received the proposal for a law on denationalisation. The proposal for a law on denationalisation was sent by the College before it came to this home to obtain constitutional basis from the respective Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Constitutional Commission of the People's House said there was a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. As part of the agenda, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House of People, we are having a debate on the principles and, therefore, the principles on which this law is based, and the necessity of the adoption of this law, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We should stop the debate now, stop the decision, so we're having a public debate on the law we're still discussing here, and we haven't accepted the principles of that law. We have not reached a decision on the necessity of passing this law and, at the same time, we are now proposing to conduct a public debate on a law that we did not take in our property. He's not in this house yet. Moreover, let me add: The House of Representatives adopted this law in the first reading, please nicely, and made a decision to conduct a public debate. Let's do the same thing here! Let us bring, bring, adopt this law in our first reading and together with the House of Representatives, approach the implementation of a public debate at the widest level and extend, set a deadline for this to last a month, two, three, but here to listen to blackmails that if we put it to the vote, it will fall, it is contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and I would not like to introduce in this way a practice of work when we know that someone can, by entity decision-making, bring down one regulation that is here in the context of principles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1312	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you to try and come up with a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1313	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1314	Delegate Majkić. The Rules of Procedure are important, but the House of Peoples, if they will, can make decisions beyond the Rules of Procedure, if it is a common position, but here it is. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1315	Mr Filipović, I will remind you, when we adopted an agreement with the Vatican, we left for the next session to vote on this agreement on your proposal, so as not to vote negatively. We have accepted your suggestion, which I now suggest, and which you fight so hard. Let's be principled! Then we accepted, let's not make it happen, we delay everything, the final discussion, we'll just leave the statement for the next session. Do you remember that? And I'm suggesting the same thing now, and you're saying it can't. It was still on the deal, this is, so we have the law and we're trying to make it, to bridge it. You see, our problem is that we have too many documents coming from the RS that are against the law. Try to understand us and give us some space to work on. I'm you, that's all I'm asking and I'm not threatening you. I tell you what our club has to do. So that's what I'm talking about, to know where we are and how to move in that little terrain that we have.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1316	Thank you very much. I would still ask you to consider this proposal. The proposal isn't that bad for me at all. He opens up a space to hold a public debate. I must tell you that the position (6) of the Member of our 100th Rules of Procedure, says – they do not specify when, after the first, before the first – the House may conclude that....The competent commission will conduct a public debate on the bill within 21 days. They don't exactly approach when, I agree. I mean, I'm not looking for an argument, I'm looking for a political agreement by the delegates to try to open a public debate on this subject without a direct statement yet. Here, that's my request, because we heard such a compromise proposal. If he can't, if they're not delegates, we'll vote and vote, what do we do? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I don't know what other colleagues say. The proposal is for the president of the Serbian People's Club not to say today about the law in the first reading but to leave this statement for the next session, that is, after the public debate, because the House of Representatives adopted in the first reading and will organise a public debate, so that we leave it, under quotes, in our dictionary, still live in the procedure. Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1318	Thank you very much. We had this proposal before, so maybe as a club one little ad hoc break from 5 to 10 minutes and we'll get... about that pleading. But both in principle and in collegiate and human and, however we will, it is true, in accordance with Article 100, when you said that this position (6) foresees this possibility but, of course, after applying previous positions (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), etc. And so basically, here's what I don't know how to do. I'll do anything to agree with our colleagues from 59 of our club and to support and compromise on it. But essentially, if we are interpreting such a thing and the Club of Delegates in the order of the Croatian and Serbian people, then we could automatically vote today, give support to the principles of this law, let it go into public debate, and then every club and every delegate in the second reading will have this opportunity to vote or not to vote, stop or miss the law, in a way to vote yes or against. If we're going to stop the plea now to get arguments or quasi arguments in the public debate that we're going to call to say, here, in a public debate we came to these and those views, so we're not going to vote for the law, then we're wasting our time.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1319	Okay. Here, is there more? If there isn't, I'd give it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1320	I'd only beg one word, if that's all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1321	Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1322	I've come to the floor once more, and I'm not going to do it on this subject... just to correct one inaccuracy because one perception of the identity of an international legal act is being created, so the agreement between the two states on which this home only gives consent to ratification, and the final job ends the Presidency, authorized to ratify international contracts. I was then, since he should have been questioned from the aspect of the Serbian Club's Treaty with the svet stolica, in order not to endanger that international legal act, which would have damaged all of BiH,...removed, led the session, so I moved it as the last point. When I came to the plea, since I knew of your thinking that you were not ready to accept,...that would mean that the Treaty with the svet stolica had fallen, I delayed the plea for the next session. It's only been seven days. It's not the same case as having a debate here for a few hours on the principles of a law and we're not going to discuss it anymore, let the House of Representatives conduct a public debate, so we'll continue to discuss the principles in our home. It's not the same for me. If other colleagues think it's the same, and if we're ready, so give up the prescribed provisions...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1323	No, I won't, no, not me.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1324	... Rules of Procedure, please. We can decide differently. We can make an ad hoc conclusion, so that's the opposite... Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1325	I suggest we don't have a break. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1326	...that it's only worth it, Mladen, so it's prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. We can draw a conclusion that delegates the rules of the Rules of Procedure and applies only to this situation today. So you can do that, too. Here you go. So, I'd like to, so this proposal is contrary to the Rules of Procedure, leading us to another state we've never been in before.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1327	Thank you very much. I realized the president of the club withdrew his proposal and I have to go to a statement. Right? Any other interested in the debate? There isn't. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] She pulled, she told me to pull. Are you withdrawing the proposal, Dušanka?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1329	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1330	Are you withdrawing this proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1331	Yeah, no.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1332	No, I don't. Then now, then, I understood you when you said let's go to the vote yes, I thought you pulled. But good. You asked for five minutes off. I'm taking five minutes off. [[PAUZA]] We're going on, I'm sorry, we're going on. If I understand correctly, the president of the Bosniak People's Club has a proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1334	The chairman, respecting the importance of this law that we have all spoken of more or less, respecting the business provisions, is it, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, respecting the position of the Club of Delegates in the order of the Serbian people so that we could not today support this law, respecting the proposal to postpone, until the end, having in mind that we do not have a representative of the authorising officer who is authorised to take certain moves in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose 61 one compromise, and that is, it seems to me that we have all agreed here in these breaks, to postpone a plea under this law until the next session of this House, in a way that we will first declare this law, and then continue our regular next session. And I think that's what we agreed: clubs on this break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1335	Thank you very much. As far as I'm concerned, if I can be chairman, I thank you for your constructive proposal. I don't know if there are any objections to this proposal. Agree! Then we suggest we state who's up for Mr. Rančić's proposal? Thank you. I find that the proposal has been unanimously adopted and we have adopted a conclusion that before the next session begins, we will declare this law. We move to the next item of the agenda, which is: Ad. 18. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law (first reading) – Proposer: delegates Ilija Filipović, Mladen Ivanić and Alma Čolo And let me just take a few sentences. So both homes, that means the predstavnički of Representatives and the House of Peoples, formed an Interresor Group, which was supposed to prepare the draft law on amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law. In front of the people's home in the group were Alma Čolo, Ilija Filipović and Mladen Ivanić. And after 16 working group meetings, in an atmosphere where it went with the principle that only what gets the support of everyone was included in the law, this law was built. You've got the law. He has a lot of technical... repairs and improvements, which are many of the dilemmas in the Central Election Commission's work were present, thus removed, eliminated, clarified. Part of the provision that could not have been implemented is also in line, and what I think in the working group as a whole was a very positive, correct, and, I would say, a good atmosphere. Since there have been proposals from lawmakers who have not been accepted, as other members of the Interresor Working Group have not done so, the Interresor Working Group, of course in accordance with both the Rules of Procedure and the procedures, considers that the right of members of the Working Group to deliver these proposals and during the amendment procedure is fully in them. I wouldn't go into details right now. I think you're all familiar with this. So this, with our consensus, we've approached this, this is our first reading. So, the debate on the principles and principles, the necessity of this law. I think there's a basis for that. And, the commission, we have a commission report,...it's done. In addition, the task force, and I suggest that I say it immediately, has suggested so-called. four initiatives proposed by the Interresor Working Group to the BiH Parliament at both homes. And these initiatives are as follows: firstly: it is necessary to... The BiH Constitution specify deadlines for establishing a legislative executive after elections at all levels of government in BiH, and determine in the Constitution 62 the possibility of calling an early election in BiH unless the executive and legislative authorities are established within the prescribed deadline. Another initiative is: It is necessary in the Constitution of the Federation of BiH to amend the provisions governing the way of the elections... delegates at the House of the Federation of BiH, in order to allow the rapid and complete consultation of the House of the People of the Federation of BiH. Third initiative: It is necessary to review the provisions of the Law on the completion of the vacancy of the BiH presidency member, as well as to more precisely regulate the legal framework for the choice of the president and vice-president of the RS in the event of termination of the term of office before the deadline on which they were elected. And the fourth initiative: it is necessary to harmonise the rules governing the election of the mayors of municipalities and mayors in both entities and, in this respect, to initiate amendments and additions to the Law on the direct selection of the heads of municipalities in the Federation of BiH with the RS Election Law, and the Interresor Working Group are more acceptable solutions under the RS Election Law. Here, these are the four initiatives. Thank you very much. You have received a report from the competent commission, which has accepted the principles of the proposed law. You've received an initiative also accepted by the committee in charge. The House of Representatives adopted the bill in the first reading, the initiative with the bill. I'm opening a debate. Are there any interested? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to a vote. Who is “for ” the bill in the first reading? Is it “against ”? "Sustained"? There isn't. I find this law was adopted unanimously in the first reading. We're going to the 19th point, that's "Ad." 19. Proposal for a Law amending the Council of Ministers Act (first reading) – Proposer: House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1339	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, before my final decision on the vote of this law, although I participated actively in the debate on the Defence and Security Commission, want to ask one question to the Proposer, since in the materials for this item of the agenda we have received that for, and stands out prominently,... implementation of this law does not require additional financial resources. I would really like to hear the argument: is the implementation of this law necessary for additional funding, since in the reasons for the adoption of amendments to this law, it is said that the adoption of this law provides for... the possibility to complete the reserve composition of persons whose professional military service has ceased, since also those persons have significant experience, including peace missions, and that they will be able to come back to the situation, of course, to participate in these peacekeeping missions, is it necessary for these persons to resume quality training, to go through training, to be in the same situation as the others, and to then be assigned to military missions? If it will be necessary to go through the process again, of course, it will include additional funding to implement this law, and that is why I am really asking this question, wanting to get an answer to it now, and all for one basic reason is that the funds provided for the military, 90% of these funds, which are intended for the military, go for the salaries. So, without any possibility of being able to provide for other things, and this will only mean further exacerbating the specific situation of soldiers and achieving their rights. That is why my basic question is: will the adoption of this law require additional funding for its implementation? Here, thank you so much. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1340	Before I give the promoter, I ask if there are any more questions and interested in the debate? If not, I'd like the Deputy Secretary of Defense to give an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1341	Thank you. Mr. President, distinguished MPs, I'm going to try a little, let me say, go to the chronology. Since when we passed the law on defence and service, when making a presidential decision, we counted on having 10,000 professional military personnel, and to allow for five thousand active reserves, in case when engaged in peacekeeping missions or some missions outside the country need certain specialities, we can hire people. It's a decision we made when we abolished means manual composition. Given that both this year 2008 and the projected 2008 budget, the budget which is conditionally said transition, and where the percentage of funds is on the personal item, which you are certainly management, and rather significant or, better said, not so much a significant part of the training of the staff, which we believe in next year, means in the 2009 Budget will certainly be more significant, and we believe that the budget will certainly be greater than 2 or at least 2% of the GDP, in terms of BiH institutions. In this regard, there will certainly be a more significant inflow of funds or, rather, a certain amount to be trained. I can say that it certainly won't cost us beyond the planned means, because if for those people who once participated as members of whether in the RS Army, or the Federation Army, these are certain specialities that will be included as part of the preparation of seminars, education and training, which are determined by the training plan of the Armed Forces, people will participate. So if we organize a course, if we organize food for students of the course for 10, that 11 or 12 can't say that it'll cost us beyond what we planned. I think it really means that the law has no financial additional burdens in terms of the Department of Defence's budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1342	Thank you very much. I've closed the debate. I suggest we make a statement. So we have a statement on the bill in the first reading. Who Is For? ‘Non’? No "maintenanced" available. I find this law has received unanimous support in the first reading. We move to the 21st point of the agenda, that's 65 Ad. 21. Proposal for a Code of Conduct of Delegates and MPs (first reading) – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics Do we have to have two readings here, since this isn't the law? The code of conduct, I think it's meant to be effective, there's no need to double or, if we have to two, yes today. And there will be an amendment! Okay. Okay. I'll open the hearing then. Here you go, delegate Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1344	So there's the Parliamentary Assembly finally got this document and when this important document comes into parliamentary procedure, then it would really be worth something to say about it. Therefore, the Code of Conduct is a disciplinary mechanism to resolve the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly and it is necessary to establish it as soon as possible, so that MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly behave in accordance with the way citizens expect them to. In fact, the code is a public promise to adhere to those standards of conduct that citizens expect from us. Bringing codes of conduct is of paramount importance in order to regain confidence in those who have been elected by citizens or those who represent them. Therefore, the purpose of adopting this Code is to establish standards of personal and professional integrity and behaviour that MPs and delegates should adhere to, to support MPs and delegates in respect of all these standards, to meet citizens as they have the right to demand and expect MPs and delegates to contribute to the building of citizens' trust in power and to contribute to the establishment of more efficient and responsible authorities. The constitution and the legal system in BiH have defined the responsibility of MPs and delegates to the country's citizens. Regardless of the high moral behaviour, which all MPs and delegates are obliged to comply with, the Parliamentary Assembly has so far not had a mechanism to sanction the violation of the Rules of Procedure by its members, and therefore there is no effective legal mechanism for applying the high standards imposed on the Rules of Procedure and therefore MPs and delegates whose behaviour is below that standard must bear responsibility. In a democratic society governed by the rule of law, besides the court of the public, the inappropriate behaviour of MPs and delegates should be sanctioned through disciplinary measures against public officials. That is why it is really necessary to adopt this document and, accordingly, I propose that the proposal for a Code of Conduct for MPs and delegates of the Parliamentary Assembly be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1345	Thank you very much. Is there any more interest? Mrs. Čolo. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1346	Well, here I was... the head of the task force who worked this document in front of the Human Rights Commission, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics. It is a Joint Commission which has a very high authority, and the rules of procedure of both homes and homes provide that the commission prepares and proposes to Parliament the ethical code of conduct of MPs and delegates in both homes. I can only say that we really had great support for NGOs, first of all the Centre of Civil Initiatives, who delivered a draft code of ethics, then the OSCE Organization which actively participated in the work of this task force and, of course, here I want to say since Mrs. Majkić said that it would be amended, this is some compromise that we have in this task force, meaning that she has been appointed from the ranks of committee members and from one and another home, we have managed to reach full consensus and, of course, that any amendment that will contribute... the improvement of text will be welcome. And just when you mentioned the procedure earlier, the procedure is the same as for every act that brings home, meaning first reading, second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1347	Thank you. Mr. Koprivica, well.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1348	Well, I'll have a few words too, Mr. Chairman. Since I was a member of this committee, since I am a member of the Committee on Human Rights who appointed this task force for the drafting of the Code, I think that all what we have heard from the predecessors indeed... stands and this is an act that is extremely important in Parliament's work in respect of the basic principles of its work and the regulations that regulate... in which the sittings take place. I think that in the code, what's most important and most important as a working group, or commission, we really did what we had to do to prepare it for both sessions at home. Here we are left with the obligation under Article 24 of this proposed code to do one implementing act that will regulate the way in which the measures are given, if of course such a code is accepted, as proposed for... The House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. I think that... should make one conclusion on whether to access the draft implementing act immediately now, given that Dom will probably give a positive opinion when it comes to the code, or to wait until the full procedure for the adoption of the Code is completed, so that later we can authorise that same commission or another to... make this implementing act and... that we can automatically apply the Code. It means, in order not to waste time needlessly, which will take away the subsequent adoption of that implementing act. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1349	Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivica. Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1350	Mr. Chairman, unlike my colleagues and colleagues who spoke, I do not share the enthusiasm or live in the illusion that the adoption of a paper called Codex 67 will address the issue of efficiency or general awareness of the representatives in this and in the second home of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. In fact, I see it as another form of self-indulgence of this House and this Parliament. If you look at this code a little bit, then you'll see that there's only one sentence missing in it that says: "No spit on the floor." Look at the little articles, so you'll see how to access the MPs, which is how they want to be courted because, like us, we fell off some wild branch, so now we need to be courted. But here I am, on behalf of the general pleasure, who rules this country, after we bring this code, I will accept this code as well as the others, although I am intimately rebelling against it. Because I would really like to be told by the proposings, including many civil society associations, whether this code has Israeli Parliament and English that represent sacraments, in fact the sanctity of parliamentaryism throughout the world. No, of course not. But, well, it's not a fundamental question to bring in a false code, which nobody here, I say in advance, won't stick to, the essential question is to raise the responsibility of the MPs and competence for what they came here to do. But here we are also offering papers and paper, norms and norms, as if we were people who never saw or knew anything in our lives. And here's because my colleagues and colleagues and the public are well-involved by enthusiasm, I guess after this code we'll have a very well-organized state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1351	Thank you very much. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1352	Well, there's no enthusiasm at all, it's a task I've had to perform, like any previous one, but let me just tell Mr. Ljubić... a member, Rajić. A member of the Irish Parliament, so the president of their ethics committee participated with us in the work of drawing up this code. And we had a lot of parallel legislation that regulates this matter, even Croatia and the countries of the region, so I don't think we're the only ones.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1353	I suggest that I refrain from my comment, rather than put it to a vote, so we can go quickly. I'm sorry, I didn't see the delegate Jović. I'm sorry, really. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1354	I think he might be in the middle of something with his thinking. And she'd look herself in the next one. It is not bad to norm in certain situations when they are resilient in the behaviour of people in communication with each other. However, when it comes to Parliament, that is why we are, that is what the term is, whether, where... the issue of debate as controversy, persuasion and respect is necessarily imposed. Normally there are certain sparks then, we are aware of that, and then we should empower or enable this leader beyond our standards to act in harmony with what we are here today and if we adopt today. What I'm thinking about, and I've always been guided by it: will the Codex have the character of the law? And the second is: If we bring today, I would love and appreciate it if 68 and other institutions in this country, so all the electors, all the officials, had a similar standard. Because somehow we're making laws here, one of them, here we've shown, and in that light, and I see the initiative of civilians,...an incentive of civil initiatives to come up with a document like this, to encourage others to do perhaps not the same, but a similar document. And this document is subject to change. And what's written here is the fruit of one work and thinking at that moment, but certainly, and those who encouraged in the conversation that I had with them, and also colleagues who worked on it, have nothing to do with the fact that in some way these elements that are spoken of by the distinguished envoy Rajić, in some way, change. And I think in that light it would be good to make a decision today so that we can influence changes, perhaps essential, within, in the content of this code.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1355	Thank you very much. I experience the code not to teach an individual how to behave, but to be there in case, God Bog, trouble. And therefore, you saw there, it was formed and it is proposed to form a commission, so that the commission can fine the MPs, if they exaggerate. As a matter of fact, at the expense of the MP. But okay, we'll talk about it, yeah, let's not go into it. There's an interesting detail for the British Parliament. They've been stabbed once, and then the difference between position and opposition isn't so much that swords can get close, but that's why they're so close, but they're not too close. But the word, the word is not limited to anything, it really isn't, and that's even that, yeah, well, thank you very much. But here's what I suggest... that we make a statement in the first reading, so we'll also see in the amendment phase that if there are some things that are too big to try to throw out. Who Is For? ‘Non’? No "maintenanced" available. Thank you. I find that we adopted the proposal for a code in the first reading. Moving to point 22. Ad. 22. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the audit carried out in 2006 Well, now that I'm not reading all these institutions, you've got the agenda, there's no need. I've already read that for the record. Delegate Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1357	So here in the report are covered, the work of two Commission sessions is covered, so 9th session, 26.9th, and 10th session, 30.11. This would have ended the work on reviewing the 2006 audit reports. It's about 25 reports. All these reports got an opinion... What exactly are the biggest problems that the Office of Audit has encountered? 69 So the procurement of goods and services that are not in line with the Public Procurement Act is not a system established, an efficient internal control system has not been improved planning and monitoring of budgets and annual rebalancing and the list of funds is not fully completed. These are, therefore, the most common observations put forward by the Office of Audit. It has unanimously gone to all these institutions that within 30 days they are obliged to notify the Finance and Budget Commission: what they have done and what they plan to do to remove the deficits in the 2006 audit report, and at the same time we asked the Office for Audit to carry out first the review of the Commission's financial and budget conclusions, and then to move to 2007. Therefore, the Commission unanimously accepted the report of the Office for Audit and established four conclusions: 1) The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges the Council of Ministers to consider immediately upon receipt of this conclusion the need to adopt a new law on public procurement. Explicate stems from... this situation in BiH institutions. 2) The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly draws attention to the Council of Ministers that it is obliged to take all activities to establish effective internal control mechanisms in BiH institutions. 3) The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly draws attention to the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury that it is necessary to monitor and inform the Parliamentary Assembly within the legal deadlines of the decisions taken to restructure expenditure within the total amount approved in the budget for each budgetary user. 4) The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly draws attention to the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury that it is duty to monitor the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget in particular for those who do not follow the dynamic plan, and inform the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH about the observed irregularities in the legal deadlines. So this is what the Commission proposes to the House of Peoples to adopt these conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1358	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mr Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1359	We're talking about the report, aren't we? I would personally agree with everything except this first conclusion, therefore, that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges the Council of Ministers to consider immediately upon receipt of this conclusion the need for a new law on public procurement. 70 I thought it might have been when I wasn't, I'm sorry, so I asked Rančić. He had to be, if I wasn't, he had to be one of us and, as it were, even when he was, I don't remember this conclusion, and we didn't make it. However, the next Rajić and what he said, when we talked about this, we supported the law. And it is said that... immediately after this conclusion is received, the need for a new law on procurement in BiH is considered. And that, that's not true, we didn't adopt it that way, so I intervene. So I'm all about what it says here, except for that conclusion first, because it would turn out, when all this is read, that we should change the law so someone can legalize some of the jobs that they can't do now under the Public Procurement Act. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1360	Thank you very much. Delegate Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1361	It's quite degutant and unpleasant.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1362	Please, I remind you of the code of conduct.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1363	I'm being polite, but it's degutant that someone tells you you're lying. So we have the Secretary of the Commission and I ask that the conclusion be made to spell out exactly who voted for these conclusions here for the next session. So, I'm extremely uncomfortable, I don't need to make up conclusions, or should I sit down at the end of every commission and ask that you all sign up so that tomorrow you don't give up what you voted for. I mean, it's really embarrassing and in an awkward position you are – so don't comment on what the observations of the audit institution that did this kind of work, for the 25 institutions it analyzed, but you're doubting that you weren't at that session. Only, a respected colleague, there is a secretary of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1364	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1365	There is a possibility that things that will be discussed at the House will be established in advance and come to the House session without knowing whether you were, let alone whether you voted, I really have no words.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1366	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1367	So maybe I don't know that there was a vote on these conclusions. I thought it was possible that it was in some session I wasn't at, so I asked Rančić. Well, he says it's not true either, that neither was he, and he wasn't. We can't both be. Therefore, I 71, following the fact that we supported the law, cannot now be in favour of changing the law, or bringing a new one, is it, if we supported the one we talked about. And, I didn't say you were lying, Mrs. Majkić, it's not just for the code of conduct, but... this is exactly what I'm talking about. I don't have the influence of a clerk making these records, so I don't know what she's going to say, but this is a fact.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1368	Thank you very much. We'll see how we get out of it. As far as the Commission's conclusions are concerned, that's what we'll end up with. Now let's get to the point, and that's the find. If there's any interest in finding in this first group that we're talking about. Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1369	Well, I wouldn't really be getting involved in some sort of debate of the essence of these findings, or the evaluations that this commission has given on a number of audit reports that we've been considering in this term, in this conference. So, more or less, the president's remarks were made. References are mainly made to all users, some more, in some less, to the same issues, to the same failures, to the same non-compliance with certain legal rules. It primarily refers to compliance with financial regulations or material finance operations, accounting records, source and asset monitoring, i.e. annual lists of assets and, in particular, provisions concerning the application of the Public Procurement Act. And these remarks, mainly, have been made public during the debate with the responsible persons from the relevant BiH institutions who have been the subject of the debate and have largely acted in accordance with these requirements, which is our conclusion. They've already executed, they've removed the meaning of one part of those obstacles. What I have to show myself about here, I... I really wouldn't want to use a word that could tie me up later, because then a man is a prisoner of a spoken word, but... I won't say it's not the right conclusion under point 1) but it's completely illogical. If we have accepted the principles...... of amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement, which has not passed today, it is not logical that we have a conclusion under point 1) as it is, which does not mean that there could be no false understanding, false listening, false writing in the record. So I think that this should come out in an elegant way, that Mrs. Majkić, as president of this committee, does not feel in any way depressed or affected. Let's accept these conclusions, and let's leave this one at the next session, at the next, when it's at the next session, to check that conclusion once, and then verify it, adopt it as it really is. Here, I think it would be some kind of exit that would be comfortable enough for everyone, so no one would feel anxious.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1370	Thank you very much. Is there any more interest in the debate? Mr. Drago Ljubičić. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1371	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished guests, so I have a feeling here that this conclusion is trying to tie itself to the debate we had on the Public Procurement Act and which has not received support. Maybe some kind of fear that this conclusion won't prejudge anything, so to speak, at least I'm personally thinking about it right now. And, I join in a certain way, I think we should look for a solution, what Mr. Božo mentioned, that we try to mean within these conclusions of the commission to get out of this, and it just means that there's no magic circle again, so that we're spinning and we don't find a solution. Although I would like to point out: I fully support Mrs Majkić's thinking and appreciate her efforts and advocating in the work of this Finance and Budget Commission, which she is chairing. I do not underestimate the work of any member of this committee, where I am a member, and I think that each of these members of the Commission contributed to their views and comments on these audit reports. However, I would also like to point out, I think that we were all in agreement within the framework of the Commission's work, when we discussed not only the last time, but every time we discussed these audit reports. The finding is and is mentioned by this law, the Public Procurement Act, that it is controversial. For which reasons he is controversial, so he would not now enter into it and open the debate but apparently that he, this Law on Public Procurement, deserves really one attention. Well, I suggest we try to find a solution within these conclusions and get past this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1372	Thank you very much. Is there any more interest? Here you go, Mr. Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1373	Maybe it was, probably was, about the amendments to the law that we supported, but not about the new law. That, if you've listened to me here, I've never been there for a new law to be made. There, that's the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1374	Okay. Would it mean anything to the chairman just to try to come to a compromise, not to delay it, to say on my proposal, so not on the Commission's proposal but on my proposal: to ask the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly to consider the Council of Ministers' legal framework for public procurement of BiH and the problems it produces for budget users. Is that okay? If he can't, I'm pulling right now. I accept that proposal Mr. Rajić said we would plead later. Nothing, I'm coming back. I wanted to say, because objectively, we don't have the law now. We have the old Public Procurement Act, this one has now fallen, and it is evident that public procurement, if I may say, is the biggest problem: public procurement, internal controls and a list. These are three things that revolve in all the reports: public procurement, internal controls and a list! And that's what happens most often, but in this context, I've looked at this conclusion, not in the context of the new law, changing and supplementing those former, but more areas of public procurement, but good. 73 And we have a report from the Commission on which two members of the Commission (Mrs. Majkić) have made observations about the first member. We have a compromise proposal from Mr Rajić to plead on other points, and that this first conclusion is left until the next session, that he should be checked until then declared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1375	... I don't think we should waste any time. [[no microphone turned on]] We will see 2), 3) and 4) the conclusion, so 1) together on the Committee, we will cleanse, and we will see, we will come to the House with a clear attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1376	Thank you. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1377	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1378	Please, again.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1379	Mrs. Majkić, I think you can trust that we will clear this up together at the Committee and we will come to the House and say that conclusion 1) reads the same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1380	Just one) conclusion to come back, and these others accept. And (1) conclusion? Well, this is what I suggest. So I suggest that the House of Nations adopt its conclusions: 2), 3) and 4). Who Is For? Does anyone have “against ”? There isn't. Thank you. I realize we've adopted these conclusions. I propose a conclusion: The House of People asks the Commission to reconsider conclusion 1) and inform the House of its common position. Who Is For? ‘Non’? "Sustained"? There isn't. Thank you. I'm guessing we've worked this out, too. Moving to the next agenda point, that's point 23. 74 Ad. 23. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on BHRT's 2005 and 2006 audit You've received a report on the institution's audit as a report from the committee responsible. The Finance and Budget Commission found that the report could be accepted, proposed its adoption as well as the adoption of the conclusions it proposed in its report. Is there a need for any opening remarks? Delegate Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1382	There would be nothing to say on a report like this, despite the fact that the Commission has been working very intensively on it. I'd like to... forget all this stuff that's been written in advance, just talk about proposals, the conclusions that the Commission is proposing to the House. There are a large number of proposals, I think 17 proposals have come to an end, but basically, it means 1) the conclusion that the Commission made: 1) The House considers that the negative opinion of the BiH institutions' audit office is partly due to the non-application of the law...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1383	May I have your attention, please? There's no story during the session by code.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1384	So, part of the consequences of not applying the law, part of the management committee's behavior, and part of the management itself. 2) The people's home requires the BiH Public TV Service to immediately approach the removal of the shortcomings in the 2005 and 2006 review reports in the section relating to these 17 points. 3) To the people of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, ask the Public TV Service to submit within 30 days of the date of receipt of this conclusion to the Finance Commission and the budget plan to remove the shortcomings in the 2005 and 2006 audit reports. 4) The home of the people of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH requires the Public TV Service to report to the Commission for Finance and the budget of the People's House on the dynamics of removing the gaps according to the 2005 and 2006 audit reports. There was a dispute about this, because they've been complaining a lot about it, thinking... that they're going to turn into an institution that's just going to be doing writing, but I think, given the state, that this is the worst report that's come in, I think, into this Parliamentary Assembly, by some free judgment. I don't think it would be bad...to keep that conclusion, and that they are really obliged to deliver a report every three months in what state they are in and what they have improved in the meantime. 75 5) The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly considers that the report on the revision of the Public TV Service for 2005 and 2006 is to be sent to the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. Therefore, the Commission unanimously accepted this report and sent it to the House of these conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1385	Thank you. Here you go. Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1386	I have to take my word for it, because I think there's some inaccuracies, some inconsistencies and some, I'll tell you what it is. I do not dispute the findings of the Audit Office and the report of the Audit Office for me is... immutable reading. This is the finding, done by the professional institution, the state institution and we at the Finance and Budget Committee had a serious debate, heard by the authorised representative, so the manager of the period at which the Office of Audits processed from 2005 and 2006 heard... the argumentation of then Mr. Drag Marić and indeed concluded that on page 4 of this report and what Mrs. Majkić read in point 1). When I say inconsistency, the completely authentic text, therefore,...point 1) that you have read, because we have insisted that this is exactly how the Povjerensto proposes to the House of Peoples and that the House of Nations accepts, therefore, this report finds that there is a shared responsibility for this situation established by the Office of Audit. It means that it can't be just the responsibility of the manager, management, because it is the time of 2005-2006 when there were no legal regulations that could have been applied to their business, when the Management Board was also working the way he worked, without certain internal normative acts that had no home at the time and at the time, and of course we didn't avoid saying that there was such a negative report about what the public was informed about in BiH,...although, part of the responsibility and management. Point 2) also told the People's House requires BiH Public TV service to approach the resolution of these shortcomings, etc. And here after point 2) behind here in 2006 was supposed to put a point and it shouldn't have been collected, so what's already in the report. Therefore, all that is contained in the report of the Audit Office, I do not think it should have been copied previously to the Report in order to be five pages of the Reports from the Commission. We didn't even make a decision about it,...the debate was, these 17 points, in fact, read. So, I don't need to, just to finish a little bit, I don't need to... say that the office, I'm reading the decoded, as it says, for the revision, has established the following limitations, and now we've counted it out and said the 17 points we've copied, what the Audit Office found. This should not be in this report, because here we have the Report of the Committee and the Report of the Audit Office one document, an integral text,...and should not be copied into the Report of the Commission. I would be in favour of the first three sentences, with the end of the third sentence being said here: the Commission has decided to propose to the House, the Commission proposes to the House, the House accepts this report, these are then, that is when the Report of the House and the House asks it to be removed, that etc. etc. So I'm a little out of it, so I say it's a little inconsistencies. At the first point on page four, it says: The House considers it a negative opinion, etc. As a consequence, the non-application of the law, part of the responsibility of management, part of the responsibility of the Management Board. 76 Under point 2) says: The home of the people requires of the Public TV service, etc. to remove the shortcomings identified by the Report... The audit office. You don't have to look for exactly what it says in that office right now, in that office report. In point 3) is the one thing where the Commission now assumes the role of the House and I think it should be more precise to say that it requires the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly from the Public TV Service that within 30 days, we have already concluded this and so, from the day on which this conclusion is received, it shall deliver to the House a plan to remove the gaps from the audit report, not the Commission. That's the inconsistency I'm talking about. And now inconsistency is also in this point 4). It is inconsistencies that a quarterly report comes to the Finance Commission, it should come to the House of Peoples, the House of Peoples. It is not the Commission that has a relationship with the Public Service. Public service established by Parliament and Parliament will come to the debate and report on the work of services to Parliament, will not come to the Commission, and the Commission is a business body that does certain things for one home or another home. So, don't be angry, I want to stay only until the end consistent with reports that we receive from other committees at the House of Peoples and how reports are being made in the House of Representatives, where you sat in the previous meeting, so you know that I'm telling the truth. I wouldn't be at point 5 in this formation. No matter what I was sitting there, that's not what we agreed. There's Mr. Rajić, I don't know if anyone else remembers. Please, I will never raise my hand to this House to be the one to do someone else's work. One thing you saw was how I reacted to the report I received from the judicial authorities, from the D.A.'s office. Parliament should now, through this report, be in charge of the Audit Office to send this report, because it's this black, the D.A.'s office. Please, so the prosecution is acting on official duty, based on the knowledge it already has from all the means of public reporting that there have been certain problems in the Croatian TV service, and so I don't need to be the one now who will be sending them what they need to do in relation to the negative report of the Audit Office. That's why I'd be left out of point 5. Let the D.A. do his job in a manner prescribed by law... Let's redefine this point 3. And yes, and yes, please, I'm done. Yes, so I return to the first page, after point 3) the Commission has concluded to propose to the House the following, we move to page four and we go to point 1), to point 2), to point 3) in the way I suggested redefining, to point 4) in the way I suggested redefining and erasing point 5. So, I am asking the members of the Committee sitting here, all six of us are here – with all due respect, the efforts and work of the President of the Committee, so we should commend this – but there are no need for some things in this report to remain as a clue, the Resav school here is three pages. We don't need that. I ask the members of the Committee to redefine this report today in the way I suggested or to return it to the Commission to redefine it the way I did, how I just said it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1387	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1388	Unbelievable, but true. Instead of discussing the 41st page, the comments in the audit report, instead of talking about the nearly 40 recommendations of the revision that are related to improving the business of this significant public institution – I ask the media to make...this part of the record, 77 I very much care about it – we need... to make this report something that we will deal with ourselves and don't happen to let someone think of saying this kind of catastrophic report that the House of Representatives has been working for hours, that no one says a single word and on the contrary that we still forbid it from going to the Prosecutor's Office. That's embarrassing. And I'm ashamed to be involved in... such a discussion and I'm ashamed that instead of having a conversation about how to fix it, we've located ourselves on how to fix the report from the competent commission that did it right. It cannot be left out of these remarks which are put here for the simple reason that the Report goes through different channels and different institutions and does not follow the Audit Report. So, please, this is Mr Filipović's raised hand and even at that point 4) Reports. This is later, later on! I'm asking all the members of the Commission to remember that... and we have in the end a record that's also registered from this committee, and I'm not going to let a hack on the Finance and Budget Committee be made here. I work very consciously and very hard on this committee and I do not allow anyone, nor do you, Mr Filipović, to put in the context of how you started. You don't have to destroy the Finance Commission's report because of your good relations with the former director of the public service. This is really one shame that I don't want to take any more words of my own, and I call on all those who have little memory, regarding the last work and the Commission's work, to say their position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1389	Thank you very much. There's nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1390	So far, no.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1391	Okay. Mrs. Čolo. Mrs. Čolo, then you will.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1392	Are you, Mr. Rajić?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1393	I'm the one who decides who's first and who's second! At least, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1394	Well, I'm not... a member of the Finance and Budget Committee to know what the powers of this commission are and I really think they've been working very hard on this job. However, I am in favour of having the same treatment for every institution controlled by the Audit Office. We have considered this report today the worst, the truth is the worst, but we have considered it. The audit office controlled a series of institutions in which he found a series of objections, none of whom told the Finance and Budget Commission to draw up a plan to address the shortcomings, none of the institutions said within three months, every three months report to the Commission, explicitly like this. It seems to me that few conclusions are too harsh. I beg the President of the Commission! This Audit Office is the one who controls, it is obliged if illegalities are established, and are, if there is a basis for the responsibility of one, by reason of certain actions and procedures it has done, while at certain positions in the Public TV Service, the prosecution is under official duty to act from the press inscription, the prosecutor is obliged to ex officio to take action, to investigate what 78...the audit found in... his... business control and to take action, in order to establish criminal responsibility, to determine the exact actions that were carried out at the RTV service. I don't want to go too harshly with conclusions, I'd try to sort of ease it up. It seems to me like we're putting ourselves back in some kind of supervisor relationship here and now this tv service needs us to keep passing some reports, to make it look like they're doing it right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1395	Is it a replica or is it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1396	Parliament is the first partner of the Office of Audit, the first partner. If we nod our heads, next year you'll get 10 negative reports. We're expected to run and look for explanations for these things that happen on 40 pages, 40 recommendations. And if the House of Peoples doesn't think there's a single word to say about such a business of an institution, then that should be tried by the media, to judge the public, to actually say our relationship to all of that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1397	Thank you very much. More attitude than replica, but good. Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1398	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Oh, I'll use one phrase and I'll tell you that being honest doesn't have to go to Sorbonne! When I say this to be fair, then I stand in a certain way aside from Mrs. Majkić as president of this committee. And I'll tell you why. Because when I read these conclusions, I think about them and whether they could have been different! Could they have been less explicit, in terms of how Mrs. Čolo said it, but the fact is that all of us who were at the committee's session voted these conclusions. Today, when we talked about it in our club, I realized that the conclusion was 3) and 4), perhaps, put in some predisposed position just a commission above the House. And that mistake isn't just the President of the Committee's fault, so it's our mistake together, I pray that we all accept it together as such, if we have to revise it, then let's review it all together. Whether point 5) of the conclusion, which Mr Filipović questioned, falls within the area of our jurisdiction, I am not entirely sure. But point 5 didn't come here by accident, we voted it. Maybe we had one look, one vision, and if we think something needs to be corrected, then let's take that part of responsibility and say, "We've all made a mistake together." So, I can accept that part of the remarks g. Filipović made here that these two points 3) and 4) might be a stronger message to say that these reports are being submitted as said: to the House, not to the Committee, because it will certainly come to the Commission because they must pass that filter before. And that this point 5 implies that... this very revision of its own reports according to the qualifications found there and wrote that it itself is acting on those reports against the public, in fact, the state's attorney, or the prosecutor. With this, of course, the possibilities that... The prosecution also has duties, and opportunities which, from the public that creates certain images, certain presses, etc. 79 So, in that sense, I think that if we wanted to discuss the revision of these reports, in some way, that we should accept the fact that point 1) of the report, which Mr Filipović was talking about – we accepted this point after a long discussion, as the fundamental truth that we recognized in that report – that responsibility is not on one side, it is divided into those responsible for not implementing the law, and perhaps those who do not carry out the law here in these benches, to those who have made decisions as administrative, or supervisory bodies and managements of all the Councils and all the times that are subject to the processing of this report. And I think that's the bonus, that... that we, as a committee, made towards the RTV BiH not to be, not to prejudge solutions, and we don't bring the court before that, we said that responsibility was divided. But it's not our place to do it now. If responsibility is to be established, both labour and political and material and criminal, it will be determined by other competent authorities. These other conclusions, so the second, the second, is not controversial, third, fourth, let's talk now, if we think we need to reshape them and give the primate and the power of the message to those conclusions in the House of Nations, I'm not against it, but it doesn't turn out that we're correcting the views of one person, or the chairman of that committee, but we all did it together. Point five, I'm not sure if we've crossed the limits of the authorized powers we have, maybe we have. But if we overstepped them, we overstepped them together, so that's what I want. Now, what I want to suggest to the presidents of our commission, Mrs. Majkić, as a colleague and as a colleague of the profession, I know that, with one feature that you vigorously represent your views, adorn another trait, perhaps sometimes not adornable, perhaps sometimes is a burden. I also don't think it was necessary to rewrite all of these points, which should have been done, that it was enough to say that they were acting on the head, or that point, or Roman, of that audit report, because the report was an integral part of this material, so you can see. Eh, now talk about the material itself, about our findings, I think it would be unproductive, because we expect one, at least as I understand it, the announced joint session of both the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament's homes, which will discuss the report on the work of the BiH Radio-Television, or the Public TV Service, and then it's an opportunity that in the whole of the problem, no one defends us, nor can it be called into question, that we are talking about the general state of work, the effects, the failures, etc. that we also talk about this financial discipline, i.e. indiscipline, non-compliance with the law, etc. In that sense, I don't see at this point the reasons in this debate that we're dealing more widely with those. So, the report, no doubt, belongs to the category of the most complex and most difficult reports we've had to see on the Committee, and the records have come out of that consciousness, and the knowledge, so they didn't self-involve, Mrs. Čolo, read that report, so they said, let's treat him past these others! No, I don't. The nature of things shown in the reports is quite difficult and then logically followed by these conclusions, which may be redefined, but again, once again, in the end, let us be collegiate all members of the Committee accept that this is our shared responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1399	Thank you very much. Is there more? Mr. Ljubičić. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1400	I'll try to make a brief comment of myself. I don't need to repeat this. I took part in the work of this committee, and I have no need to comment. I think this point has earned a special attention, so it also means in the work of this committee. I don't know what the audit reports were during the previous period, I mean the previous assembly of the House of Peoples, but I know what kind of audit reports have been coming to us since this house is in session in this session. And every time negative opinions on the audit reports appeared, I think this commission took a certain view of such audit reports, which are categorized by negative, satisfactory and, I don't know, what other ones. Very few of those who are good and who have received one passing grade. I don't see that until now the competent institutions, when the competent institutions and so far have reacted in any way to these negative audit reports, and I just see this one from the conclusions where the prosecution is mentioned, that this home, meaning, has one position and asks the competent institutions, really starts to respond to these reports once. I'm asking myself one question. How long will we plead only in this way and that these audit reports go from period to period, and we have no reaction from these competent institutions? I'm afraid this is not the way practice is going on and nothing's going to change! I simply have a feeling and I personally think that Dom simply with one conclusion in that direction should once again draw attention to these competent institutions, which should once begin to do their job. I'm afraid, once again I'm going to say that we're going to have and be in a position to say, again, to meet with these or similar audit reports and nothing's going on. On the other hand, I see this conclusion in that sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1401	First Ibrahimpašić and then you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1402	Unlike the previous case, I also testify here that we on the Commission have adopted these conclusions exactly as it says. We were very angry. You know, when you read those reports, when you get some knowledge and in such an atmosphere, I don't know what you would use if I had the power to end it. Now I hear it's not our job to send someone to the D.A.'s office, it's our job to do it by nature. If I knew that then, I probably wouldn't have voted for that conclusion, but we adopted them as they are, Filipović. What can I do now? I can only vote for them because I voted, or we can agree to go back to the Commission and see if there's another kala in there. But if we were angry, we were angry! I remember at one point, even, jerked off and said, "Why don't you sue that federal television, so they have their founder, and they owe seven million marks! And, under that impression, and worse suggestions, I'd vote for worse proposals, right to tell you, that as a member of the Commission I have that power, but I have or I don't, now I realize that we're not the ones sending. We propose to the House that he do it, Dom can't do it. But I voted for the conclusions, and I have nowhere else to go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1403	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1404	I forgot to tell Mr Filipović earlier, and then he mentioned Mr Rajić. Why are they written tax-taskingly? Because whoever wants to look at it is all the things that depend on the institution's leadership. So, the process of financial planning, the improvement of payment, marketing strategy, the calculation and payment of salaries, the stimulation and rewards, respect for the rules of landline spending, the reduction of municipal expenditure, so all in all are things that are not directly touched by the Governing Board, but directly authorized persons in the institution. If I hadn't shown it, it could have been interpreted anyway, and I understand the reasons they're trying to argue not to put it on, but I think it's necessary to stand. Why did I put this together to deliver to the Finance and Budget Commission? Dom can't and it's not right to deal with every three months on a subject that may not even be for Dom. If they have done everything, the Finance Commission and the budget will make information to correct so many mistakes. What would that do every three months, normally if the Finance and Budget Committee came, it processed and delivered to the House. So, if Dom discusses it every three months, I think it's an unnecessary burying of the House. But it's not a problem and that's even better: let the House decide on it. And in the end, it's our duty to say there's no automation after the prosecution's dispatch. It was once said that... all the audit reports were delivered to the D.A. and, then the D.A.'s office, when they got both the ones they needed and the ones they didn't need, buried with 56, 57 institutions. How's he gonna work on that? So he only needs those who are alarming and who suggest that it should be investigated. Niko one attacks anyone until the D.A. proves it's not different. So, this is just material based on which the D.A. would work and Parliament's obligation is because otherwise it means that the House of Peoples requires that we keep this quiet, to hide this report, and that the persons responsible for this to rehabilitate them, and to say, excuse us, you're not bearing any responsibility for us, it's the Commission's fault that she overwritten the demands, or the report too harsh. So, colleagues, please, it's our job to look at it through a microscope and to declare it as partners. The audit itself can't do anything without our help.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1405	Mr Filipović, so you, Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1406	So now I have to answer the word again. I didn't say one word here that we didn't accept these five points on the Commission like this. But when I carefully read these five points and what precedes these points, then I saw that the concept of the report is completely different, compared to how this Parliament, so how Parliament's bodies are making reports towards one and another home. It doesn't make sense for me to stay like this in this. Don't be mad. I respect, I said I respect your hard work and your zeal for work and you simply protect that piece of yours as your own thing. You do not allow anything to be touched, but allow me, this is from the best intentions and towards me as a member of the Commission and according to the members of the Commission and to you as chairman of that commission. 82 Therefore, in the Law on Public TV Service of BiH, which is subject to a constitutional assessment and is located in the Constitutional Court, the communication of the RTV service has only with Parliament. It's not with Parliament's bodies. So I think it would be a good point, where you say a report is being delivered to the Commission, we say it delivers a report to the House. So he delivers one home and another home, so that's logic. Everything else doesn't make sense. So, if we were looking as one home, such a report was not accepted by the House of Representatives. That it's going to be our report and our conclusion, the Audit Office, that it delivers it to the D.A.'s office? I'm not into that kind of thing, because I think the D.A.'s doing everything else. Imagine if he waited just to inform Parliament about where he should go to do his job, investigate a certain matter, launch an investigation, eventually prepare the indictment, and wait from the court to accept it or not to accept it. Therefore, the Audit Office has the same relationship with each institution of the state, as it does with this Parliament. Parliament is equal to one state entity which the Audit Office is reviewing, in accordance with its acts. There is no special treatment for us and expectations of us for our future work. So that's why I said that we're in our business, working as a commission, after a few hours, whether it was five or four or six hours of serious debate, not only about this point but about many points, you've only read us point 1), 2), 3), 4) and 5) I've even thought of responding, here's a living witness Bog. Božo forbid, there's a debate in the House! I didn't really react then, but I am now, from the best intentions towards all of us and the seriousness of this report that we will accept, please once again and ask the chairman to put on a plea. So, to fix this. So to redefine or the way I'm looking here today or to say it. Okay, the report is great, but let's get it back and remove some of this stuff, if you're holding other members of the Commission, let's get it back a little bit and remove these things, if you're holding other members of the Commission and colleagues from the House that you should. It is inappropriate for me to remain here and it is not appropriate for me to ask Servis to submit reports to Parliament's body, which is required, certainly, when it comes, to communicate with the Servis and Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1407	Thank you very much. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1408	Oh, I'd like a quick one. When I said that I think the conclusions are too sharp, I thought most of all of the time about this role at point 4) that they're reporting to the Commission three months, because I think the seriousness of the failure is such that in three months, there's not much that can be done. The dynamic plan to remove the deficiencies can be done quickly, but every three months that just so some progress can be felt in improving business and respecting legal procedures, I don't think it's possible. I would still like to, perhaps misunderstood when it comes to the Prosecutor's Office, paragraph 5), it is not disputed for Parliament to refer, it would not be the first time such a report, we have done so before, to the Prosecutor's Office, because there is a obligation under the BiH Criminal Procedure Act that anyone who knows that a criminal offence has been committed is obliged to meet the competent prosecutor, and there is a duty... to report a criminal offence, for which the law prescribes three years or five years in prison, if I am not mistaken and more. So, I don't think it's controversial, but here I am now, looking at all this, I'm willing to accept these Commission conclusions, although I thought it was too much every three months. My point was to do it the most. 83 A, when I said the D.A.'s office was off-limits, it was due. It's learned from the media and it can always ask for this report, but it doesn't hurt if we deliver.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1409	Thank you very much. Is there more? There isn't. Eh, now we need to proceed with a decision-making procedure. I don't have the conclusions you suggested, so I can hardly reproduce them in some form. I thought we were going to put this review report to the vote first, so we have to accept it or reject it. Then, if I understand all of you right now, we have a report from the Commission that is correct, correct, with a proposal for conclusions, which no one denies, but now has a little different vision, and to that third we have a proposal for a conclusion that the gentleman has made, is, to return. It is one conclusion that the proposal for a conclusion is returned to the Commission. I have to go according to procedure as specified. First, I'll put on the voting report on the revision of the Office for Auditing Radio-Television. Who is “for ” to accept this report? Thank you. ‘Non’? No "maintenanced" available. All, therefore, unanimously accepted report on the revision of the Office for Audit, on the revision of the Public TV System. Now we have this proposal from the Commission with conclusions. We heard the argument, I wouldn't repeat it. It is my job to put the Commission's proposal on a statement. Who is "for" such a proposal from the Commission? Nine, right? This then means that the Commission's proposal has received a majority and has a third of the delegates from the Federation and the RS required. Therefore, the Commission's report was adopted. Right? Yes, it is. Then there's no need to put the motion to a vote. Thank you. Let's move on. The next item is Ad. 24. Report on the 2006 report on the implementation of the budget of the BiH institution Is there any interest in the debate? There isn't. You received the report and you received the Commission's report. Does anyone have a wish? There isn't. First I put the review report on the vote. Who Is For? 84 thank you. I then put to the vote the Commission's report, with the conclusions proposed by the committee in charge. Who Is For? ‘Non’? No "maintenanced" available. Thank you. I understand we've adopted this report as well. Moving to the next item on the agenda, 25. Ad. 25. Annual report for 2006 Institutions of the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1412	This report I've been looking at in part, since we know it's... The institution of the Ombudsman in the technical mandate, that we have failed a single contest, and that we are on the verge of a new competition, so that any responsibility, even for the commission that has been given, is at stake, given that we are expected to have a new choice, so that I would not particularly conduct a discussion on this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1413	Thank you. I am closing the debate and first put to the vote the Human Rights Institution Report 2006. Who Is For? ‘Non’? Are you “abstained ”? With most votes, with one "maintained", a report by the BiH Ombudsman's Institute for Human Rights was adopted. We are now voting on the conclusions proposed by the committee in charge. Who Is For? ‘Non’? There is no one “against. ” I therefore conclude that the conclusions were adopted in the text as proposed by this committee. 85 We move to point 26. Ad. 26. Report on the participation of BiH Armed Forces members, police and state officials in peace support operations for the period from 1.3.2007 to 31.8.2007 I'm opening a debate. You've received the Joint Commission's report. The House of Representatives adopted the Report, with the conclusions proposed by the Joint Commission. Is there any interest in the debate? If he doesn't, I'll put him to the vote. Who's "for" the report? Does anyone have “against ”? "Sustained"? There isn't. Thank you. I find that we unanimously adopted the report. We are now voting on the conclusions proposed by the Joint Commission. Who Is For? Thank you. I also thank Mrs. Marina Pendeš for spending the whole day with us today and, as deputy minister, taking part in the work of our home. Moving to point 27. Ad. 27. Appointment of a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board from the Bosniak people
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1417	There's something about this current topic that certainly causes a number of controversy in our country, related to the unauthorized marketing of intoxicating drugs. Therefore, the Defence and Security Commission delivered an opinion at its meeting on Information on Unauthorized Production and Marketing of Intoxicating Drugs and gave a number of conclusions. These conclusions went to the House of Representatives and after a major debate, which was led there on the topic of drug abuse, the House of Representatives decided to return the report to the Commission and to draw new conclusions that would unite most of what was said at the House of Representatives. The Commission then made a new proposal but this new proposal has not been significantly amended compared to the previous one. It may be a little more content by volume, but as far as the point is concerned, it's almost the same. And it has not yet been declared a House of Representatives. So he came to us first. ... Basically, the Commission's Report states that every delegate, or MP in the House of Representatives, has the right to speak about it at the House's session. So, I wasn't satisfied with these conclusions because it seemed to me that this commission hadn't gotten enough into the essence of this report. And this is because I was very engaged in the Law on the Prevention and Prevention of Drug Abuse, which was adopted in February 2006 and published in Official List No. 8 of 7.2.2006. What is the essence of this report, in fact, that is, what is related to this law itself? The purpose of the adoption of the basic Law on the prevention and prevention of drug abuse is to effectively counter the growing spread of their abuse. We've passed this law. They made a commitment to what the UN asked us to do, but the monster of this era, called drug abuse, is not finished. And none of the segments of that part of the law have yet to be implemented. The law on the prevention and prevention of drug abuse should constitute the main normative act that prescribes the most important,...all legislation related to drug control and abuse. However, this legal solution does not fulfil the basic principle of one-stopping and organised arrangements to prevent drug abuse, and there is no question of building a system of prevention of addicts, nor of helping addicts. Because the entire 87 areas have been neglected, and because of the importance, and because of the importance BiH has on the route for drug trafficking, I think it has to deal with these more. And, I, by analysing the differences between these, have seen that the law that provides for the establishment of a Commission for the Control of Intoxication Drugs or a Commission for the Council of Ministers has not yet been fully implemented, that the Department for the Control and Abuse of Drug Intoxication at the Department of the Ministry of Security has not yet been fully operational, and that the great ambitions associated with this law remain practically dead letter on paper. Accordingly, I have suggested here a number of conclusions, which I think would not be bad enough to read them, so that the Dom decide whether they make sense, but I think this is too banalized, that it's not simply entered into the core of the problem, and that this law requires not only fast-tracking to track down all those who deal with this illicit trade, but to make some significant shifts when it comes to drug abuse. So I suggest that the following conclusions be adopted: 1. The BiH Council of Ministers will draw up and refer to parliaments for adoption of the State Strategy for Drug Control, Prevention and Prevention of Drug Use within two months of the adoption of Information on Unauthorized Production and Marketing. I remind you that this law was to be passed almost two years ago, that this act was to be passed two years ago. So we don't have it yet. 2. That the Action Plan, which should also be done by the Council of Ministers, should be adopted within two months of the adoption of the State Strategy. And it was a legal obligation, which has not yet been passed. 3. That the new draft law amending and supplementing the existing law should be done by the Council of Ministers on the basis of a strategy to combat drug abuse within two months of the adoption of this strategy, and a new legal solution to organised, methodological, professional and modern approach should be fully addressed to prevent drug abuse and the fight against disease and addiction. 4. That the bill or amendments and additions to the existing law should be complemented by measures to build a system of prevention of addiction, treatment of addicts and rehabilitation of addicts. 5. The law should provide for the establishment of a specific institution that would be responsible for proposing, implementing and coordinating measures and activities to prevent, early detection and control of addiction, hence state-level agencies and entity-level offices. Six. The law should regulate the place and role of state and entity institutions, as well as NGOs in the system of protection and assistance to addicts. Seven. Strengthen criminal policy in connection with criminal acts, production and marketing of intoxicating drugs, and provide criminal measures for confiscation of property to all those involved in drug distribution. 88 8. Significantly increase the budget for the implementation of this law because the existing law on resolving such a serious issue provides for only 50,000 marks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1418	Thank you. Is there any more interest? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I've got the information we need to get to the bottom of it again, because it's information. I guess that's the formulation we're using. I have these conclusions from the Commission, which I must put to the vote. I have these conclusions from Mrs. Majkić's delegates, right? Well, nothing. Who is "for" to receive home information with this title? Thank you very much. I find that information has been received. We are now voting on the conclusions proposed by the Joint Commission. Who is “for ” conclusions? Who is “against ” the conclusion? Three. Two "for", thus the conclusions have a majority, i.e. have a majority, have an entity majority and have been adopted. Right? Thank you. Then there isn't, I think we can also plead these conclusions because they can be complemented by this. Right? Since they are not opposed, if I understand Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1419	Please, they're just more detailed. They're pretty general there and they're not tied to...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1420	So, I'm saying, they're not as opposite as they were before. They were in the play. Now, because of the size, we can't be in the package, but practically every conclusion should be made individually. Right? Or you think we can do it in a package. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1421	: I was at the Committee when we discussed this and surprised me when we saw in front of ourselves an information that was purely a table view and information about what was going on, then, to discuss whether it was good or not, is it one way or another. We can take that into consideration, and I'm glad you gave it so much to vote on. So, by different considerations, one or another man who participates in the debate is a proposal for measures and these activities to be taken to prevent them. We looked at it like this, so we adopted it. Any measures, including these measures proposed by the Member of the Commission, have come in handy. And a number of measures can be, which will improve the activity of this and develop a strategy in the fight against drugs. So, I mean, despite this conclusion, it's not bad to adopt this one. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1422	Well, I honestly think, that's why I'm suggesting.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1423	It's going to happen that we have a conclusion, two conclusions, very similar, I think, if we scrutinize. Maybe return it to the Commission to repeat it, that's all. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1424	As far as I can tell, the House of Representatives adopted her, and she's not new. Delegate Šaraba. We'll take care of it. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1425	By estimating the effort and working on these conclusions, I think it would be good for these conclusions to be directed to the Commission, that the Commission should consider these conclusions and then forward them to the House. Therefore, the Commission should consider.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1426	Dušanka, are you a member of this committee?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1428	Come on, then he's going to the Commission. No, it's the conclusion, these suggestions for conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1429	... like everyone's exhibiting. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1430	No, it's not. The proposal for a conclusion is going on the Commission's proposal to come here one more time and we can get a little bit of attention and get along with this. Moving to point 29. 90 Ad. 29. Information on the authorisations issued for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products in 2006 You have received information as well as the opinion of the relevant Joint Defence and Security Commission. The Commission supported the Information. The House of Representatives also received information. I'm opening a debate. Any interest? It's all clear to everyone. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting to the vote the conclusion that the House of the Peoples has received information. Who Is For? Is it “against ”? "Sustained"? There isn't. Thank you. I find that the House of Nations has received knowledge of the Information. Any conclusions? It's not. Therefore, we do not declare our conclusions. Moving to the 30th point of the agenda: Ad. 30. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of interparliamentary friendship groups
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1433	Thank you very much, Mr. President. 91 This morning we held a club session and discussed the proposal of these groups to co-operate with countries and the closer and further environment of the world and the Croatian Club in the House of Peoples has an objection to Group 2 where it is said about the formation of groups for Western Europe.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1434	And there's no one here, okay, but that's when we get there. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1435	I do, but I'm afraid if we make a partial decision, I have a proposition. There are no Hrvat in this group, and these are EU member states. And I don't think that's good. I'm proposed for China and Argentina. Thank you, I'm not flying, and for those reasons, I would ask, if we can, to make, I don't know if it's a folk's expression, a trade, to put in this commission for Western Europe... The Hrvat in the gentleman's representative Božo Rajić, and here, of these persons who are in Group 2 in my place, I volunteer.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1436	And does that have to stand down? Does it have to be number four? Why would he have to be? What's wrong with the parliamentary group counting two or 15 if they want to? Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1437	: Mr. Chairman, even the criteria are unsatisfactory, in this group.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1438	Thank you very much. So here we have for Western Europe: Koprivica, Mike, to settle the place, here, simplified one of them.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1439	Out of the question!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1440	The Majkićka says, "It's out of the question." The nettle flies to shorter stocks. Let's find a solution. I think it's standing, I think it's an observation. As far as I'm concerned, if anyone wants to go there for me in Asia, I'm free to take my place of dear will, since I've crossed these countries. We have a request, an objective request. This is the proposal, the College has established it, but we have a request about this, for Western Europe. Alma, I haven't seen you, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1441	Since this was done by the Commission for the Foreign and Trade Policy of our home, we have managed those criteria: 11 members are under the Decision to form these interparliamentary groups, and then the Joint College... said: let four go from the House of Peoples, and seven go from the House of Representatives. So in each group of six groups, there will be four of the House of Peoples, and seven of them are from this home. It is then necessary to satisfy entity 92 representation (two-thirds of the Federation, one-third of the RS), gender representation and gender equal representation and also to take care of representatives of opposition parties that they are represented. And the last criteria are the wishes of each of us, and then we had a difficult task of trying to do this by these wishes... Of course, this is some balance that we could have gotten to on the commission. In the end, I am empowered by the Commission to try to balance it with the Secretary of the Commission in the end and again the problem will be when this proposal comes, when it is drawn up with a proposal from the House of Representatives, we may not again fit into these common criteria. There's going to be a deviation somewhere, so here's what I don't know, believe me, we've been trying to do, I don't know who in this group 2! Mr. Sulejman Tihić is me, I think he expressed his desire for two options, I don't know what his preference was now, I don't have those materials with me right now, but here I can't take it from myself to give his place here to a representative of the Croatian people. He asked two, yes, I don't know, here, believe me.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1442	Oh, I didn't know they'd come to the conclusion. No Niko can limit us in number. What we've limited is unnecessary. But, well, I guess we're limited by that decision. If it were Asia, this where I'm going, you wouldn't insist if it were Asia, this where I'm going! I know that. I'm kidding, I'm kidding. I know, I know. But here, I don't know how to get out of it now. Either I get a second proposal from the Commission, or one of the delegates makes a concession or I don't know. I really don't know how to get out of it, I tried. Here you go. You got it, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1443	I'm in that group for Germany, Switzerland, the Netherlands, etc. But here I am, the same technology that put me in this group of China, India, Indonesia. So I can't be in this fourth group under point 2 a) at the same time me and point 3. instead of Ivo Mire Jović. So, I can't literally be on one committee twice. I can be or not once, but twice I can be for this group there. So if I'm expected to, then if I'm not making any trouble, but then all the tubes need to turn those two places for me, and then someone else, etc. I think if you want to do this, there's another name to look for.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1444	Give us a way out, let's try to get out! The only way I can do it right now is for the rest of us to get it back to the Commission so she can try. I don't see what else I can do. Because I think there are elements to the observation, that we understand each other. I really think so. Here you go, Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1445	...satisfying Mr. Jović, then in this group of four. (Kina, India)...if there were Bošnjak, if we put Sulejman Tihić, then there would be three Bošnjak and one Srbin. If a Srbin gave a place, it would be 2:2, there are no Hrvat here again. We're breaking the balance again. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1446	Oh, I said that's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1447	Well, it's only group two with two Srbin. If the ratio is 2:3, 1:3, then Group 2 must go, then one Srbin would still have to understand... to China. There are none, you and Koprivica. We should make a deal, if we respect the criteria! Please. Here's the two of you make a deal. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1448	Can I ask you something? If there are a little more Hrvat in the House of Representatives, is that correct? You've found a solution. Okay. Come on, I'm glad to. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1449	: China, China and other countries, instead of Ivo Mire Jović, forgive me. Perhaps here where counterpart Rudo Vidović (Croatia, Slovenia, Italy, Malta, Serbia) goes to that part by counterpart Zoran Koprivica. To the place of Zoran Koprivica to go to colleague Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1450	Okay, correct, this is the Greek team (Macedonia, Hungary) Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1451	: Then I will Vidović aside from the two places he chooses. And then I'll be in the group.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1452	Come with me, Rudo, you won't make a mistake. I didn't happen to choose this committee. Okay, well, if that's all, then we can, I mean, sort of make a statement with these changes. So, change practically means that instead of Mr. Rude Vidović in Group 1 for neighbouring countries, Mr. Koprivica will go to Group 2 instead of Mr. Koprivica, and that Mr. Rajić will go to Group 4 for China instead of Mr. Ivo Mire Jović. Did I just get that right? So with these changes, I put on the vote of this task force, the proposal for a decision to appoint members of interparliamentary friendship groups. Who Is For? ‘Non’? No "maintenanced" available. Thank you. I understand we've made a decision on the appointment of these groups. 94 We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: Ad. 31. Proposal for a resolution on the fight against violence against women in the family – Proposer: delegate Dušanka Majkić Just a little more attention, please. I suggest we finish, we're done.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1454	Two sentences. You know how much fighting violence against women is a topic. I'd just like a sentence to say that...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1455	Please, I apologize for interrupting... it is my suggestion that we... adopt this resolution, because it was adopted in the House of Representatives without sending it to the committee in charge. First, let's get to the point where we know what we're going to vote on. Who is "for" this proposal? I was wrong. Thank you. I agree that today we will decide on the text of the resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1456	So, why do we need it? It states that we are, in fact, fulfilling our obligations towards the Council of Europe, giving a parliamentary dimension to activities in the campaign to fight violence against women, determining and expressing the position of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on this important issue and establishing guidelines for the work of BiH institutions when it comes to violence against women. In short.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1457	Thank you very much. You heard. The resolution was adopted in the same text practically in the House of Representatives. Who Is For? "Against!? No "maintenanced" available. Thank you. I find that we have adopted the Resolution unanimously. Moving to the 32nd item of the agenda: 95 Ad. Thirty-two. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics You have received a proposal for a decision delivered by the Joint Commission. The House of Representatives adopted a Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities, as proposed by the Joint Commission. I'm opening a debate. Any interest? There isn't. I'm putting in a motion for a decision that this committee has delivered to us for a vote. Who Is For? ‘Non’? No "maintenanced" available. Thank you. I find that we have unanimously made this decision. Moving to the 33rd item of the agenda: Ad. 33. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission for the Determination of Foreign Savings of BiH citizens at the expense of domestic banks and branches in BiH – Pre-legislator: Colleges of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1460	We have to say that this shows how, in fact, the predstavnički of Representatives treats our conclusions. So, we were the first to conclude in our home session that we were obliged by the Council of Ministers to immediately after receiving this conclusion... Pardon me, the House of Peoples proposes the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to set up an Ad hoc commission tasked with intervening disputed foreign savings verifications between the agencies responsible for the verification of old foreign currency savings and business banks containing data on foreign savings deposited. The House of Representatives gets this text and adopts the next conclusion. So he takes our people who are proposed on that basis and says a whole other thing. (a) The Commission's task is to determine the amount of old foreign exchange savings made to domestic banks in BiH and branches. 96 (b) To establish the state of old foreign exchange savings in banks and branches from the previous point of view, with 1.6.c) to propose measures and conclusions to be directed towards competent institutions, with the aim of further treatment of any irregularities observed in the verification, payment and calculation of interest of old foreign exchange savings. People stand up in the House and say, "This is impossible to do." So, what did they do? They took our... representatives, forgot our proposal and defined their conclusion. Afterwards, thanks to the secretary, here is the secretary who has been working hard enough to make that conclusion, which has already been published in the “Official Messenger”. Since the Ministry of Finance, meanwhile, did not make a new proposal to extend the verification – so our conclusion now – he did not do what the Dom had given him and started, but was working, the bonds and the ministry have the view that he might be able to extend the process provided that... only those who did not verify it were included in it. Now we should go back to the negotiation procedure with the old foreign savings to see if they would accept, what would it mean to them if two months extended the verification procedure. Now it's up to us. So, we've got the right thing to do is to make the conclusion of the House of Representatives. Our conclusion now remains... from the ninth month, is that 25.9th, 25.9th, is the conclusion, on that. The finance ministry didn't do the job it needed, so the process, to extend the verification procedure because we know that a small number of people have been verified. I suggest that at this point we do our part. If the Council of Ministers does happen to extend the verification, it is not a problem for our home to make the same decision again because we have not done so, the conclusion has become obsolete.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1461	Look, if I understand correctly, we have a conclusion that's not binding on them, but it's our conclusion, it's not binding, they don't have to, I don't see any reason why we have to return it. I'm the only thing I think, which I think two homes have brought in different texts and that, if we're going to do something, then we should have a conclusion-finding committee that can determine that the conclusions aren't consistent and none of them are valid. Here, or he'll get along and it'll be worth it. So I don't know now whether to form right now, what you say, Secretary, because the conclusions are in a different text on the same subject: are we now going to form a commission that will. [[Common discussion]] Who they are, who they are, I haven't seen. Well, then should we go with Majkić, Rajić and Rančić – our representatives. Okay? Agree? _________(?) 97 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1466	We have different conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1467	So, but we could make a conclusion now like they put it all in, but the contents of your text are like that. I was saying... that it was wrong, that it was bad to have such a conclusion. We're going to agenda 34. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And what's the matter? This conclusion of Parliament... but this is what.... He adopted the House of Representatives, didn't he? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1470	...against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1471	That's what it's supposed to be if you want to fill this out. We ask that we refuse and that we have a Commission for Harmonization. Who is “against”? Thank you. I find that the House of Nations has not adopted this committee and we move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1472	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1473	I wouldn't have if he hadn't reminded me, but he reminded me. We're going to point 34, Ad. 34. Proposal for a Conclusion on the establishment of the Ad hoc Commission on the appointment of three Ombudsmans in the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: House of Representatives Similarly, this is the same thing. This is – just to let me know – the House of Nations found that the text, the College of the House of Peoples, is a pardon, that the text of the Decision appointing the members of this committee and the text of the Decision with the conclusions of the House of Representatives is also in a different text, and I believe that if, at least so far, the exit was similar: the formation of a committee for the alignment of the decision to form this group to be in the same text. And there's a little difference of another kind but good. Here, that was the position of the College: it would be good to form a committee for text alignment. Here you go, Dušanka.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1475	So we did it right again. We have appointed our committee, sent to the House of Representatives, and the House of Representatives has now, along with taking our members of this committee, added several points that are controversial. And that's what Dom needs to say. So, this first, first part of it is undeniable, so it's called the Ad hoc committee for the appointment of three Ombudsmans, and it's undeniable. 99 In the second point of view (1) speaks, now instructions are given. We've never given instructions, but let's ignore that, instructions are given as to how the commission, the Ad hoc commission, should work. This was due to the fact that a contest for the election of the Ombudsman had failed. It did not fail because the commission did not work well, but because political parties could not agree. And no one can, now by fixing the elements of the competition, think they'll get something better. So it failed because we didn't achieve political consent for the people who ran for the place. What's the problem? The problem is point (2) in the article, in this position (2) elements that can be scored. There's no point in choosing an Ombudsman. The law says (when the appointment of the Ombudsman is made): the BiH Parliamentary Assembly shall establish an Ad hoc commission that publishes a public call and, after the procedure has been carried out, determines the list of candidates who meet the conditions set out in this law. And the next position, he says, is that the Kandidaciona list is delivered to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples for further proceedings. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly may ask candidates to present their concept of the work of the Ombudsman institution. So, the lex specialis law defines in which way and what are the conditions that it meets. And there's no rank list. We've stepped down to select auditors, so we're not, we're making a list of candidates.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1476	We're going too far in detail. Don't be mad, we're going too far in detail.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1477	Let me just tell you this. The Commission won't again...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1478	No, that's why I have a proposal and the College has a proposal. The text has been adopted in two different terms.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1479	So we won't be able to agree... insisted on this...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1480	So what do we do? We can't break theirs with our own decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1481	But in illegal matters...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-01-31-0.u1482	I know, but we can't take their decision. The only thing we can do is what we already did. We have a different... different decision, they have a different one, they have to sit down. The Commission finds that there has been no harmonisation, it goes all over again. So, there's no need, he's definitely going for a match. I propose this commission: Dušanka Majkić, Hazim Rančić and Branko Zrno. Any objections? Final alignment. There isn't. 100 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I won't put the vote to the vote, I won't. Why would I put it on? This isn't a joint college, this isn't. Who Is For? We have our... A designation decision which is not identical in the text of their and their office. We move on to, before we move to point 35, please state: are we going to adopt the agreements in the package or does someone have an objection to one? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
