ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15700	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 21st session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As usual, besides MPs, regular guests, chairman and members of the BiH presidency, chaired by members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations in BiH who expressed interest in attending our meetings, representatives of certain NGOs. I welcome them all. According to the service report, I find that there are 39 MPs present. Mr. Lagumdžija said he'd be a little late so we expect him to join in the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as part of the previous questions, I would like to inform you of the following. As you know at the 19th session, we formed an Ad hoc committee to prepare the amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of this House as well as the consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission's conclusion was that by 1 March we had the deadline to prepare a proposal for amendments and addition of the Rules of Procedure. However, at its first session, held on 25 January, the commission decided to invite all MPs to submit their concrete proposals for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure by 20 February 2008. She estimated that the deadline was not realistic until March 1st, so she asked the Kolegijum to extend the deadline for preparation until May 31st. The Kolegijum respected the commission's request and extended the deadline. I also use this opportunity to invite you all to participate actively in the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure in order to get as good a Rules of Procedure as possible. As part of the previous issues, we should also identify the text of the proposal for a resolution on BiH's readiness for NATO integration. In the proposal, we are members of the NATO delegation Mr. Genjac and I and the same resolution goes to the House of Peoples. Ambassador Ivo Miro Jović, that is, the delegate there. As prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, the House should be determined whether the motion for a resolution will be previously discussed in the commission. If that is not decided, it shall be automatically included in the session agenda. Given that I am one of the promoters, I suggest to Parliament that we have no objection to the motion for a resolution in the committee phase, given that we will most likely have a session on Wednesday so that by next week we can have that resolution on the agenda. 2 Please prepare for the vote to send the resolution on BiH's readiness for NATO integration into the commission phase. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 32, one omak "against" four "abstained". I find that we have enough majority to get this resolution into the commission phase. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on to the agenda. You know that the call for a session until yesterday, given the circumstances, was complemented by the draft agenda and that we had moved the time set for holding this session, making sure, among other things, the rationalization. We had in mind that we could get to the Budget possibly to confirm the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, the Council of Ministers in this agenda, as you can see, is gone. Yesterday at the College, as well as at the Expanded College, we agreed to the final draft agenda that you received on the benches. You have seen that we have removed the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of BiH from the agenda. We did so for the reason that we received a request from the committee responsible, the Constitutional Court, to extend the deadline for the submission of the report. So, without the report, we haven't had a business opportunity to put it on the agenda. At the same time, the agenda is complemented by four points, all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Finally, the draft agenda for this session covers all materials that have met the conditions for consideration. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15701	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, respected media representatives, on the basis of article 65 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I propose the next proposal to supplement the agenda of the 21st session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. So today, I propose to include in the agenda a point that would have the following title: Consideration of a general security situation in BiH, with a special reference to juvenile delinquency. Given the importance and political sensitivity of the topic, I propose that this be the first point, the working point of the agenda, immediately after the minutes and parliamentary questions and answers, and I suggest that the introduction to this agenda point be BiH Security Minister Tarik Sadović. Explaining why I propose this on the agenda is the fact that there is no more serious issue for the whole of BiH at the moment. This country, if it cannot already guarantee other rights enjoyed by citizens of other European countries, should at least guarantee a fundamental human right to security. Unfortunately, we all know well what the security situation is all over BiH and we know that the situation... according to citizens upstairs was the only one in the war. We are all witnessing various unkind events in BiH, from the fact that in half a day, an old woman was burned, that a completely innocent one was killed, that we have numerous incidents in Tuzla, Banja Luka, Trebinj, that we have daily almost robbing banks, that we are happening to the International Airport in 3 Sarajevo also in half the day, etc. People and all of BiH's well-intentioned citizens, therefore, regardless of what religion and nation they belonged to, are objectively concerned about their child's safety and safety. We therefore believe that there is no obstacle to the topic at this time for neither the state nor the Parliament, nor to entities or cantonal parliaments, from the issue of protecting the security of the citizens of BiH. I must say that only now do we understand why Oli Ren pointed to us last May in his letter to some things, when it comes to security in BiH. Despite this proposal, I propose a single conclusion on the agenda, which is: Today in Sarajevo, organised by NGOs and other citizens, I propose that we at least put aside our party or any other commitment for a moment, and that the entire House of Representatives of the BiH Parliament attends today 5 to 12 and symbolically demonstrate that we are with the citizens of BiH who are justifiably concerned about the current situation in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15702	Thank you. I can warn that in the new amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which is the point, i.e. Article 65, proposing new ones, abandoning the optional item of the agenda, we have adopted that at the beginning of the session an MP, as well as any authorised promoter, has the right to request the absence of an optional item and to propose new ones with the relevant material in writing. Since we don't have the right material here in writing and we haven't gotten it by now, there's no business opportunity for us to meet your request. At the same time, we can adopt a conclusion in the form of a conclusion that can be the point of the agenda and thus be determined according to your request. Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15703	I just delivered you a written proposal to put it on the agenda. But I want to be really flexible right now. Since you have also announced that the Parliament's session will be held in seven days, I suggest, possibly, if it is impossible to implement this initial proposal, that it be the first point of the next session in seven days, given, I repeat, that indeed, the situation which is concerned by the objectively all the people in this country. Here I think this compromise proposal could eventually be accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15704	We don't mind having sessions of an extended college attended by your club president yesterday, engaged or any part of the agenda proposed. I just said that at today's session, we're not able to do it according to the Rules of Procedure. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15705	Well, there's almost no need to say after your argument, but here I would like to mention that the Party for BiH Club supports that the debate on the topic, perhaps even the corrected topic, which was discussed by the proposer of the agenda, is really done in this House, to see what state institutions can do with the position of their responsibilities, and that the debate is actually done on the basis of some basis. So, it would be good if, eventually, the Resort Ministry and all the institutions involved in this matter by the nature of the work, produced perhaps some document, with a note of course, that given the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I was surprised that yesterday we had no proposal from members of the College at the Enlarged College because it had already been incorporated in those 24 hours, when it could possibly have happened to this day, to respond to today's session. But as we have next week's session, it's good to have time to prepare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15706	Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15707	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues, guests, the Club of the Serbian Democratic Party also supports putting this item on the agenda, with, of course, if we want a serious debate, then it is not possible today, given that there is no material but we propose to define it as a mandatory item of the agenda at the next session and to oblige the ministry to prepare material for discussion at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15708	Thank you. Is there anyone else on the agenda? If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. And we can get out of this situation the following way. To charge the Kolegijum of the doma to do everything possible to put that agenda item in the next session on the agenda according to our means business opportunities. We will ask the Resorship Ministry and the Council of Ministers to prepare the relevant material in writing. On the other hand, we had Mr Bećirović's suggestion that in the agenda, I don't know at what point, I have no conclusion, do you have that conclusion written somewhere? If you have it in writing, come on. If you don't, then I'd put it as the 15th point of the agenda: the conclusion that, which would say that it means the conclusion that, let's do it again, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15709	So, I repeat again. Since today, therefore, 5-12 to hold a protest rally in the organisation of NGOs and citizens here in Sarajevo, I propose that we take a break here in Parliament, about half past 12 and that all MPs of the House of Representatives appear at the protest rally and show their solidarity with citizens who are justly concerned. That's the essence of the proposal. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15710	It's a little hard to do that. Wait a minute, we have a little bit of a problem defining that conclusion and at what point of the agenda to put it on. Dear Ambassador Belkić, Pa Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15711	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I understand the initiative and I find it justified, Mr Bećirović. However, I think it's quite enough for us to take a break at the time. Any MP by his conscience as an MP and as a citizen can go away. That's one thing. And secondly, I think that meeting is asking us questions. So we do nothing when we stand with the people we need to answer eventually what needs to be done. So, I think we have a break at that time, and all of us sitting here will be judged as citizens, as MPs, whether we should go there or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15712	Thank you. Novaković, do you have a need?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15713	Well, you see, the first part of what I was going Belkić say is that when we take a break: who wants the MPs to go, go, but I was also going to suggest that we already show our support position, means the rally, right at the beginning. So, the position of the House of Representatives, because putting it on the agenda, who knows whether it will reach 12 o'clock or not, so simply that we here in this place today support this meeting and efforts not only of the citizens but also of all the institutions to do everything to make sure that these things don't really happen in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15714	Thank you. Wait a minute, please. We'll deal with this situation like this. We're taking a break from half a dozen to half one. Meanwhile, members of the Kolegijum have a meeting with the minister who comes from the Republic of Croatia, so we will use the break to close certain other jobs. Wait a minute, those who intend to leave, we will make before the Kolegijum, in front of Parliament, means one letter of support, if it is not a problem. So, in this way, to solve this situation, not to vote on it now, and to move on to the agenda. Thank you. I find that for the 21st session, the next 6 has been adopted. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 20th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliamentary questions and answers; 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Features of BiH (second reading); 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Basicity of Traffic on the Roads of BiH (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2008 (first reading); 6. Proposal for a law on the movement and stay of foreigners and asylum (first reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Foreign Affairs (first reading); 8. The request of MP Jerka Ivanković Lijanović to consider the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 9. MP Adem Huskić's request for a discussion of the Bill on the Completion of the Law on the "Official Messenger of BiH" under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure; 10. Proposal for modified conclusions on the Information on Unauthorized Production and Transport of Intoxicating Drugs in BiH in 2005-2006, with a tendency for the first six months of 2007; 11. Report by the State Commission on the Review of the Decision on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in BiH for the period from 1.3.2006 to 31.12.2007; 12. Proposal for a resolution to speed up the process of joining Bosnia and Herzegovina into EU membership – MPs Denis Bećirović, Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović, Mirjana Malić, Selim Bešlagić and Sefer Halilović; 13. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to agree on the text of the Law on the Internal Audit of BiH Institutions; 14. Giving consent to ratification (a) the Agreement on a long-term strategic partnership between the BiH Ministry of Security and the Geneva Centre for Democratic Control of the Armed Forces, (b) Kyoto Protocol of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, Kyoto 11 December 1997, (c) the Basic Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Serbian Orthodox Church. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. I remind you that we are having the first debate on all points, after the debate on all points is over, we are deciding the time to vote. Ad. 1. Minutes from the 20th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15717	Mr. Chairman, I think there is a missing item on page 10 under point 15 missing how many MPs voted "yes" and how much "against". It says the findings were adopted but not with results. It's common to write results, so I suggest that the record be completed in that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15718	Thank you. Anyone else? If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. We will vote when the time comes for the vote, with remarks from the honourable MP Huskić. Moving to the second item of the agenda: Ad. 2. MPs' questions and answers For this session, the questions were answered by MPs: - Branko Dokić, asked at the 15th session, - Adem Huskić, asked at the 19th session, - Šemsudin Mehmedović, Salko Sokolović, Azra Alajbegović, Rifat Dolić, Sefer Halilović, asked at the 18th session and - Mirko Okolić, Denis Bećirović and Rifat Dolić, asked at the 20th session. - Dear MP Sefer Halilović received an answer to the question asked for the first special session of both homes. And I remind you that in line with the conclusion of last session, I hope you've received this, we've provided an overview of the parliamentary issues that are not answered by the 20th session of the House. Let's go to the comments delivered first. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15720	Mr. Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, NGOs, means of information, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to comment on the answer to my parliamentary question and I will ask for the addition of this answer because I am not satisfied. I asked the city of Sarajevo and the Directorate for Roads and Roads of BiH for the following answers, and that is clear to me that they will not, and to us all, be dealt with very quickly in an adequate way by the bypasses around Sarajevo, so-called. The bypass for Mostar, and my question was not referred to – to answer me when it is about to be completed, how the procedure is called, how much will the project cost, and what lotes, and who has won the tender, and in what months will it be completed? That's exactly why I asked the question because I expected us to have 8 of these traffic jams on this stock for at least three more years. And here, they confirmed it, clearly decidently said that it would be resolved, or started to be solved: after 36 months. But my question was, what do they think and how do they do to temporarily solve the traffic congestion problem on that stock? So, temporarily, until we make this bypass that should be more permanent or permanent to solve traffic or traffic jams on this stock! And that's why I'm asking for an answer to see what's concrete about what they're going to do on a temporary solution. Whether to temporarily expand certain August tapes or traffic lanes, have police more secure there, or what they will do not travel from the so-called so-called. Vogoscan loops to the Mostar loop for two and a half hours? Thank you very much. You'll get it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15721	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15722	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, respected guests from NGOs and of course the media, at the 2nd session of the House of Representatives, I asked two questions and each time insisted on the answer and, finally, on 84 pages, I received an answer to the parliamentary question and immediately to say that I am grateful to the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers for what, however, collected the aggregated information about what I was looking for. And that was to get me privileges from the secretary to the top officials and rank of this country in all BiH institutions. I'm glad I asked for that. Now, when I got the report on 84 pages, now I'm scared, not afraid of being threatened, but the fear of finding everything here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15723	Please be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15724	I will not criticise this Council of Ministers' meeting, and the report shows that this is the legacy of some previous councils of ministers, so of course at the next sessions I will insist that this be interrupted. When there's a budget speech, then I'm going to talk about where there's a lot of ways to get rid of all this, because it's simply incomprehensible that every institution has at least an initial pay phone of 40 marks. I'm an MP for this country and I pay for my phone and I don't need to be paid for by the state. I respect it, but the assistant, if there's an assistant, an assistant, an assistant, an assistant and a minister, I respect it, but the assistant, I don't insult anyone, if there's an assistant, an assistant, a consultant in every institution, drives a state car. Does the car go snow, rain, fog, no cost of fuel consumption? Furthermore, when I was talking about cell phones, if these gentlemen are ever sitting in offices, or if they're answering from Trebević, Jahorine, I don't know where! What are they doing? Next, about these commissions that they formed for everything and everything? Shame! Destroying old seals, I don't know how many tons there are. If they'd dragged us into the boiler room on the Pala, we'd have paid 9 to warm up, spent money. Do these people do anything about their jobs and what they get paid for? Can the director of some agency order that employee out for two days, so write down that material or those stamps or I don't know what, so you get paid, because at the same time he can't be in three places: Being on the commission, on the job and answering the phone I don't know where! So, this is an unprecedented ride. This is an unprecedented thief. This is an unprecedented pairing, and I am not a demagogue to put myself in the position of protecting the people, but as long as we let more money be spent like this, and every time we do, here you will see today about the budget: we need an increase here and there! Well, you've seen the audit reports!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15725	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15726	Here I am, Mr. Chairman. For a long time, when there is a debate on the budget, I will talk about this. This is a disgrace unseen to what is done here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15727	Thank you. If there are no more answers to the questions you have received, please sign up for questions. Just a little bit, like this, means: Zorić, Mehmedović, Prodanović, Križanović, etc. Dear Ambassador Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15728	I have one question from the foreign minister or the foreign ministry. For six years, I have been a member of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and I can say that in my previous term in the diplomatic passport, I have had a visa, therefore, a diplomatic visa for a year. That passport came out and now I got a new one and I got a visa in that new passport for half a year. By consulting with some other MPs, I've learned that they've been given half a year. Is it building trust with MPs or is it something else? I'd like the minister to answer that question for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15729	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15730	Gentlemen, the chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, I did not want to comment on the answer to the question I received from the State Commission for the Review of the Decision on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens, for the reason I received in response, in fact, the essence of the answer is that 10 are not in charge of this issue. Therefore, here I repeat the modified question to the Council of Ministers, or to the competent Ministry of Civil Affairs, which reads: Has any authority ever controlled the work of the Public Register of the Brcko District and on the issue of CIPs identification documents? In fact, a very large number of citizens in the Brcko District today have a personal map of BiH, although they did not provide the necessary documents to obtain them, although they were citizens of neighbouring countries etc. I have the knowledge that nothing has ever been controlled, there is no record of such a thing, and today, the Public Register of Brcko District is already removing a particular dossier that was incomplete. So here's the question I repeat to the Ministry of Civil Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15731	Dear Ambassador Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15732	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, my question is addressed to the foreign ministry and it concerns the ministry's activities to prepare members of the BiH presidency to visit neighbouring countries. Namely, as is known, after the inauguration of the new BiH presidency, they have made a single statement that all three members of the presidency, the neighbouring country's visits in full composition, in order to build trust and good neighbourly relations between BiH and neighbouring countries. As far as I know, the BiH presidency in full has only visited Croatia. I believe that for the citizens of BiH, and for... the citizens of neighbouring countries would be of particular importance to all three members of the Presidency to neighbouring countries, and above all I think of Serbia. Certainly, the importance of relations with Montenegro should not be ignored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15733	Thank you. Dear MP Križanović, pa Alajbegović, Todorović, Bešlagić, Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15734	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers. It would be interesting for the BiH public to get answers to the following questions. Namely, just two words of introduction. The non-moving and non-use of the long-renewed Friendship Building of Greece and Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Building of the former Executive Council of the Republic of BiH, I think it is one of the examples of the non-domestic and irresponsible relationship between the BiH authorities and the BiH budgets. Here, it'll be almost a full year from her completion until she's moved in. In this sense, I refer to the Council of Ministers the questions: Accommodation which institution was planned in this renovated and reconstructed building? 11 How much did the rebuilding of this building cost BiH? Why wasn't the tender for the supply of equipment and furniture scheduled in time and completed? What will happen to the existing equipment and furniture of institutions that are now located somewhere in the rented space because some equipment and furniture are expected to be purchased? So, how long will this delay, so from the year of the almost completed building, and the use of BiH's budget will cost on behalf of the lease that BiH is paying for now rented space and accommodation of institutions that could possibly have been placed in this building? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15735	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Alajbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15736	Dear Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, media and guests, I have two very short questions. The first question is: How much has BiH funds come from the succession and how many have come from today's account? And another question: When will the BiH Veterinary Office answer the question about the state of brucellosis in BiH?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15737	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Todorović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15738	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in her 2003 directive, the European Union has advocated the promotion of biofuels, biodiesel and ethanol. A mandatory increase in the share of these fuels in Member States' national consumption has been programmed. They must provide 5.75 % of the share of biofuels in total consumption by 2010. I hope that BiH will enter this large family very quickly, so my question is, What are BiH and its institutions doing on this plan? I refer the question to the Council of Ministers and ask for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15739	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Here you go. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15740	Dear colleagues, respected colleagues, I have one question: In recent times, the chairman of the Council of Ministers is increasingly appearing at the RS government meetings, the question arises: Why does he, as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, not do so at the Federation of BiH meeting; and, more importantly, why not attend the meetings of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly? Therefore, the question is: When will the chairman of the Council of Ministers equalise the criteria and attend the same sessions of the government of both entities and, above all, when will he start regularly attending meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly, what does the law oblige him to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15741	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15742	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I today have three parliamentary initiatives and one parliamentary question and I will fit in at the scheduled time.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15743	Please don't say it's a little too much, it'll be later that we haven't met our expectations. We can ask you ten questions, but then we won't be correct, you didn't get answers to those questions. Please be reasonable in the proposal, let's go with one question as agreed, possibly with the initiative. This goes beyond the possibility of an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15744	They're tied up, all four things are tied up, and there won't be a problem. First, it means a parliamentary initiative to the BiH presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers for ratification of the Second UN Protocol on the Protection of Cultural Goods in the event of an '54 armed conflict. A year. This protocol was signed in The Hague on March 26th, '99. and concerns improving the protection of cultural goods in the case of armed conflicts and the adoption of implementing measures and procedures for the implementation of the Hague Convention on the Protection of Cultural Goods in the case of the '54 armed conflicts. A year. I think that ratification of this protocol is necessary and particularly important for BiH that must step up the regulation and take action to restore the destroyed and damaged monuments of culture in the past war and protect cultural heritage from decay and alienation. The second parliamentary initiative is the BiH Council of Ministers for Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments in BiH. I don't think the explanation for this initiative is necessary, given the state and importance of this segment of life in BiH for all citizens. 13 The third parliamentary initiative is an initiative for the Council of Ministers and the College of the House of Representatives to prepare the agenda point for one of the next sessions: the state of the cultural monument in BiH and planned activities at their restoration and protection. I don't think there's a reason for this initiative either. It is enough to remind us of the importance of preserving cultural heritage for one country and enough to say that so far we do not have a single register of cultural goods in BiH, that we do not have a register of destroyed and damaged cultural goods in the past war and that we do not have any strategy and priorities in the restoration and preservation of cultural treasures in BiH. And fourth, the parliamentary question of the BiH Council of Ministers' Ministry of Civil Affairs: How much money, from which sources and for which monuments of culture and what priorities has been invested in BiH since the end of the war to this day in the restoration of destroyed and damaged cultural monuments during the war and wartime? These parliamentary initiatives and the parliamentary issue are the result of my participation outside the House of Representatives in the work of Symposia on the protection of cultural goods in BiH, which took place in Jajc on 31 January and 1 February 2008 and the commitments I made there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15745	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković, Pa Bahtić, Bećirević, Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15746	First of all, I want to repeat the question I asked earlier, which I didn't get an answer to. In fact, at the 7th session, on 12.4.2007, I asked the Council of Ministers:... Why, to date, the Commission for Truth Examining of the People of Sarajevo – Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej and others in Sarajevo – has been in the period since '92. '95. She didn't deliver the report? Since the reasons for the failure were in the media, I asked for a report on the reasons for the failure of the commission to function, as well as today. In addition to this, the initiative to include this point of the title, i.e. with the essence of this question, at the next session of the House of Representatives, on the agenda. Also, at the same session, I also asked the BiH presidency, which at the 11th session, held on March 27th, adopted the decision No 05011978-11/07 concerning the initiative to amend acts, all acts that put individual BiH citizens in an unequal position. I asked to be given a position: Do the conclusions include changes in the BiH Constitution? Since I didn't get it today, here I am repeating these questions and asking the foreign ministry, or the BiH Presidency: In which countries does the Ministry plan to open new embassies and what dynamics? 14 We are witnessing that in the previous period there has been a shut-down of embassies in certain countries, with an explanation of the need for rationalisation in the DKP network. According to some of the information I received, several countries are planning to open new embassies at the same time. That's why I'm asking this question to be delivered to me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15747	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15748	Thank you. Council of Ministers, Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations: Is the exact information published in the electronic media that there is no rules on bottled water in BiH, why our factories cannot export their products abroad? Reason: If we know that in BiH the most important resource is water, that because of this resource we have received certain investments, such one factory was made in the Unsko-San canton near Kulen Vakuf, near Bihac, where 50 workers were admitted and employed, which is the first time for the Ljuutska Valley to create a working relationship in their area. Today, however, the factory does not work because of the absence of this bottled water Regulation, although the product has been pre-provided into the market. To whom this is in the interest of knowing that our country is in a great deficit, that we are importing much more than we are exporting, and we know that only by increasing exports of domestic products can the deficit be reduced. And another question, very short for the BiH Ministry of Security. The question concerns the Department for the Protection of VIP Persons of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection and reads: What can the Ministry of Security do to provide for about 100 members of this department uniforms that require their place of work? That Department of State Agency for Investigations and Protection numbers about 100 members, for the same three years they have been working in their civilian departments, means in their own, which they buy, and every year, they already have been in charge of uniforms for three years, and they only use these uniforms when they are considered, patrol obligations, etc., once every year. And unlike the money from these other two uniforms, they could have prepared themselves, made the purchase of civilian suits. My message to the minister: to lower a little amongst their workers, to... what they need, if they're already spent, to spend their money there on purpose, not there to lay down our uniforms and fail. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15749	Thank you. Please brief questions. 15 Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15750	I will ask one initiative and several questions, in line with the new Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, with a note, and I ask that it be recorded, that the chairman has opened this agenda point contrary to Rule 153 of the new Rules of Procedure, Rule (3). A parliamentary initiative, in light of the need for a decisive and rooted fight against all forms of crime and corruption in BiH, and wanting to clearly define the obligations of all authorities to develop precise action plans in the fight against crime and corruption: the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopts an initiative tasking the BiH Council of Ministers in co-operation with NGOs dealing with this problem, ie the problem of fighting crime and corruption, making and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH deliver the text of the Anti-Corruption Strategy. The deadline for the delivery of this strategy shall be no later than three months from the date of adoption of that initiative. The explanation is a little wider so I won't read it but I'll deliver it in writing. But I will just say that corruption is the one that affects, above all, the poorest citizens of this country and is holding back the economic development of BiH. One of the reasons I propose this is the letter Transparency International sent, among other things, to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. When it comes to parliamentary issues, the first parliamentary question. Since the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives at its 10th session, held on 13 June 2007, adopted an initiative tasking the BiH Council of Ministers with financial assistance in co-operation with the competent authorities of the Trebinje Municipality of Srdjan Aleksic's monument in Trebinj, I ask the question: What have you specifically done regarding the realization of the mentioned conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives? And I ask this question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Second question: What exactly did you do to make the Raca border crossing between BiH and Serbia look like a sovereign and internationally recognised state crossing, not an entity border crossing? That's what I'm asking because the entity features dominate the front and behind that border crossing, so you can't get the impression that you're entering the BiH state. I ask this question because there are certain shared powers between the state and entities, but when it comes to the BiH border there is no shared jurisdiction, it is unquestionable because BiH is internationally recognised and a sovereign state. You are not going anywhere in Europe at the border crossing of any country, including neighbouring countries, when you cross, say, in the Doljans, to find the flag of the Herzegovina-Neretva County or at the entrance to any border crossing in Serbia to meet the flag of Vojvodina or at the entrance to Germany at the flag of Bavaria, etc. And in BiH, this is probably not the only border crossing, you have a situation of seeing some small board of BiH and the enormous features and flags of an entity, it doesn't matter either, but I repeat that this Council of Ministers of Many Ministrys, Ministry of Security and many others, 16 need to ensure that the border crossings of BiH look like the border crossings of the BiH state, not that we have the situation we have. And third question, I'm asking the minister of justice and the minister of human rights of BiH. I wanted to ask them directly here at the session, but I am not able to, since they are not there, so I will ask this third in writing: What prevents you from fulfilling, first of all, your human duty to visit BiH citizen Ilija Jurišić, who has been in prison for more than nine months in Belgrade? I deliver everything in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15751	Thank you. The honourable Messenger Jovičić, then Jamakosmanović, and Nanić no more reported. That's what I'd like to conclude with the candidates. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15752	The Honorable Chairman, well, here, when I called to ask a parliamentary question, I can't give up now, and Mr. Novaković just did it. So I will support this initiative to put one item on the agenda to see what the Council of Ministers really thinks about this committee. But here's just to add a sentence (proof) that the SNSD Club isn't in a coalition with the SDS, because if it were, we wouldn't be asking this different question about the same subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15753	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jamakosmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15754	Dear Chairman, Presidency, I would like to refer my question to the citizens' audit committee. The question is: Does the Commission for the Review of Citizenship provide solutions on the confiscation of citizenship to persons who are not present in the report that we received in the Parliamentary Assembly as MPs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15755	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Nanić. Here you go. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15756	Thank you. The chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members, I would first and foremost like to thank you for the comprehensive document that we have received in the analysis of the responsible, asked, or answered parliamentary questions, and in this regard, I would first and foremost ask for answers to the questions I have asked on the 6th, 7th, 14, 18th and 19th meetings of this House, and I will be persistent, members of the Council of Ministers, until I have received those answers. For today, I am asking the Minister of Civil Affairs, Mr Nović, about a question already asked twice about the entry into force and the application of the Social Security Agreement between BiH and Slovenia. I'm already boring myself about this, too, but the arguments that are active and the state of the deal really requires lasting activity on this issue. In response to the question raised from the 1st special session of both homes, poslanik asked the Council of Ministers to answer the question I received an answer detailing the ratification procedure of this agreement, and then I really thought that the procedure had been completed because the very quality and exhausted answer was given to this question. But since then, it means 13.11., it has been three months and the procedure has not yet been completed, in order to start a deadline from the next two months for the entry into force of the agreement. According to information I have, BiH has mistranslated the agreement, so the Bosnian side has mistranslated the agreement, which has further extended the procedure for publishing it indefinitely. I ask the answer: What is the current stage of the agreement, when exactly will be its application, and what is the reason that the agreement is not in force because you announced in earlier information that it should have already been applied? I note that, in the Foreign Affairs Commission, we have found that it has been unwarranted for a long time, already certain contracts, and in particular the visa facilitation Treaty has been put in place and stood in the Council of Ministers and that even some international contracts that have been reached and ratified have been lost somewhere in the administration.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15757	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted the second item of the agenda. We're going to the third point, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Fines of BiH (second reading) At the 20th session, this law was adopted in the first reading and the Constitutional Legal Commission submitted a bill proposal report on February 1st. As a whole, she supported the text of the proposed law and there were no amendments to the commission phase. I'm opening a debate. If there's no one reported, I'm closing the hearing. 18 We move to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Basicity of Transport on the Roads of BiH (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15761	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable MPs, fellow ministers from the Council of Ministers, the guests, I wish I had explained this in the 12th month, but here's the situation. Let me move on to the very explanation, to find out, and I suppose you're all familiar enough about the situation and the development of the budget. I'm expressing my regret about it, but as Minister, I've done everything possible to comply with the legal procedure and I wish it was on time, but it's never too late, and I'd ask for co-operation, understanding and that the sooner we get to this, very important, document. Before you is the draft Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2008, adopted by the Presidency on 30 January 2008. On this occasion, I would like to introduce you to the basis of the draft budget adopted by the Council of Ministers in January 2008, as well as the amendments introduced by the Presidency in the Budget Proposal. 19 A few words on the constitutional basis for the adoption of the BiH Budget. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligation for 2008 is contained in Article III of Position 1 (e) of the BiH Constitution, which provides for the financing of BiH institutions and international obligations under the jurisdiction of the BiH institutions. Article IV of Article 4 (a) of the Constitution of BiH which prescribes that the Parliamentary Assembly adopts laws. Article IV item 4.b) of the Constitution of BiH which prescribes that the Parliamentary Assembly decides on the sources, the amount of the funds for the work of BiH institutions and the international commitment of BiH and Article IV item 4c) of the Constitution of BiH which provides that the Parliamentary Assembly is responsible for the approval of the BiH institutions' budget and Article VII of Title 1. The constitution under which the Parliamentary Assembly adopts, on a proposal from the Presidency, the budget to finance the costs necessary for the implementation of... BiH institutions and international obligations of BiH. Legal procedures. Law on the financing of BiH institutions (the Official Messenger) No. 61/04) defines the process of drafting, adopting and adopting the budget of the institutions, stating that the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury is delivering to the Council of Ministers the draft budget of the BiH institutions, and then the Council of Ministers delivers the draft draft to the Bureau by 15 October and that the Presidency delivers the draft budget to the Parliamentary Assembly by 1 November. The Parliamentary Assembly adopts the final Law on the Budget of Institutions and International Obligations of BiH by 31 December. The initial basis for preparing the BiH institutions' budget. The initial basis for drawing up the 2008 draft budget of the institutions by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury was the provision of the Law on the financing of institutions and the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of BiH; the parameters contained in the 2008-2010 Framework Budget document, including the basic macroeconomic projections and fiscal strategy; the Operational Instructions for the preparation of requests for appropriations from the budget... a letter for all budget users; the proposed proposals for the approval of the expenditure of the BiH institutions from the 2008 budget and the analytical indicators for the achievement of expenditure in 2006 and for the first six months of 2007, and the assessment of the implementation in 2007, with maximum respect to the limits of total public spending in BiH and the real estimates of revenue. I must especially point out that a major problem is that at the time of the preparation of the state and entity documents, the framework budget and the state and entity budget for 2008, the Fiscal Council of BiH did not function. The legal and functional establishment of the Fiscal Council of BiH is of crucial importance for the effective planning and development of the BiH Budget. The task of the Fiscal Council should be to bring the fiscal strategies of basic budgetary assumptions across BiH, including the targeted fiscal balance for BiH as a whole and for each level of government, as well as the location of funds from indirect taxes between entities, BiH and Brcko District. In the absence of the existence of the Fiscal Council, the only co-ordination of the preparation of the BiH budget is carried out by the Budget Co-ordination Committee, whose members are the assistants of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, the entity assistants of the Minister for Budget, the Head of the Brcko District Finance Directorate, the Directorate for Economic Planning of the Council of Ministers and the head of the Department for Macro-Economic Analysis of the Management Board of the Irreversible Taxation Board. The objectives of the 2008 Institution Budget The basic objectives of the 2008 budget of the institutions stem from the following parameters set out in the framework budget document for the period 2008 to 2010. These are the following objectives: giving priority to building state functions related to meeting the 20 conditions for the European Partnership. This imposes on the formation of new institutions, strengthening existing, transition and entity competences. The European Commission's report on BiH's progress in 2007 states that additional efforts are needed to meet the key requirements of the European Partnership towards which all state ministries, institutions must be adequately funded, operational and properly equipped, in particular with regard to premises and staff, and that limited budgetary resources and premises further slow down the employment of the necessary staff. The second goal is to complete the process of transition of the Armed Forces of BiH, in accordance with the BiH Defence Act, decisions by the BiH Presidency on the establishment and deployment of the BiH Armed Forces Command and Units; adaptation of the defence ministry's programmes and activities, other resolution ministries, including implementation of BiH's accession to the Partnership for Peace and Accession of the NATO Alliance. The third objective is the fact that the existing BiH institutions have not been adequately filled, and the Framework Budget document envisions a gradual completion over the next three years, thus achieving full capacity for BiH institutions at the end of 2010 according to the current internal structure of all bodies. Fourthly, giving priority to the provision of funds for multi-annual capital investment by budgetary users, and the planned transfer of allocated revenue from 2007 and the transfer of accumulated surplus revenue over expenditures from previous years is mostly directed towards the provision of funds for multi-annual capital investments. ......... You can see a review of the multi-annual capital investments in Table No. 5. The proposal for a budget ahead of you, and the review of the multi-annual capital investment includes: the reconstruction of existing DKP facilities at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the border crossings of the Directorate for indirect taxation, and the military within the Border Police. Then construction of new DKP facilities at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Regional Centres and Border Crossing Points at the Department of Irregular Taxation, State Prison and Psychological Hospital at the Ministry of Justice, the Azilant Centre at the Ministry of Security of permanent accommodation facilities of the SIPA, and sites for the Grahovo field offices near the Border Police. Then funds for BH ATM systems construction projects at the Civil Aviation Directorate, and projects... transfer systems, information on vehicle registration, biometric passports, digital data storage at the CIPS project Implementation Directorate and... the need for sustainable return, means for refugees. The return of refugees and displaced persons is also a priority. Let me now say a few characteristics about the draft budget adopted by the Presidency. The sum of the comparative review of the 2007 and 2008 revenue projection was given in Table No. 1. – The revenue balance by... and the purposes, therefore in the Budget Proposal adopted by the BiH Presidency, the total income of BiH institutions in 2008 was planned at 1,231,357,560 marks, representing an increase of 217,648.099 marks or 21% compared to the approved 2007 budget and applies: 1. Revenues for financing BiH institutions amounting to 969.426.842 marks which are higher by 219.326,842 marks or 29% compared to the 2007 budget; revenue for serving BiH's external debt of 261,930,000 which are lower by 1,678,000 or 1% compared to the 2007 budget. 21 The structure of the source for financing BiH institutions is as follows: The revenues that BiH institutions are detached from the Single Account of the Impaired Taxation Authority are planned at 710 million marks, which is 12% higher than the 2007 Budget. I would like to stress that if we compare this growth to the growth of the planned funds from the Single Account in the budgets of the government of the entity, the growth of the planned funds from the Single Account in the Government of the RS budget is 23%, and in the Federation Government Budget 31%, it means, compared to the budgets at the beginning of 2007. Other revenues amount to 259.426.842 marks and relate to their own incomes of 163,453,000 which grow 62% compared to 2007, mainly due to the growth of the Central Bank's income, whose growth is 200% compared to 2007. Assigned revenue from 2007 which is mostly directed towards a multi-annual capital budget of 34 million marks and transferred accumulated surplus income from earlier years 61,974,000 marks, which, according to Parliament's conclusions, is partly aimed at implementing the new Law on Salaries in BiH institutions, and partly towards a multi-annual capital budget, and partly towards financing sustainable return of refugees and displaced persons. The coordination of the total volume of expenditure with real revenue in 2008 could not be ensured without significant corrections to the requirements of budgetary users, the establishment of priorities for the implementation of activities within the available resources and the possibility of prolonging activities for the next period. As a result, projections of the budget expenditure frameworks per user have been significantly reduced in relation to the request of the budgetary users. In accordance with the above, the total requirements of the users of 1,024,000 marks, while this amount is reduced by 84 million marks in the draft budget. The sum of the expenditure per ecclesiastical category is given in Table No. 2. The total expenditures of BiH institutions and international commitments for 2008 were planned at 1.231,351,000 marks, representing an increase of 217,648,000 or 21% compared to the approved budget – more, of course. The total expenditure level is equal to the total projected revenue, including the planned transfer of dedicated revenue from 2007 and the transfer of accumulated surplus income from earlier years, i.e. previous years. Out of the total of 1.231,351,000, the amount of 261,930,000 is planned to serve the external debt, while 969,426,000 represents the planned expenditures of BiH institutions. The planned expenditures of BiH institutions, meaning no external debt service in 2008 compared to the approved 2007 budget, are 219 million or 29% higher. Gross salaries and fees paid by BiH institutions in the 2008 plan are 609,793,000, which represents a 26% increase compared to the 2007 budget. This total amount of gross salaries and salaries are 63% of the total budget for the financing of BiH institutions in 2008. The increase in gross salary items and the cost of staff employed in the 2008 budget came for the following reasons. Gross salaries and costs incurred by all users in the 2007 budget adoption process were cut by 2% linearly. You remember we had to make those reservations for Srebrenica of 9.900,000 marks. Then, at the Ministry of Defence, which is far the largest budget user, which accounts for 38% of the total expenditure of all users, comes the conclusion of 22 that the transition is continued, i.e. A new Regulation on salaries and salaries of professional military personnel has been adopted to increase the military added-on of 20%, as well as to ensure a well-favoured employment for the complete professional composition of the BiH Armed Forces for the entire 12 months. The adoption of this Regulation has also led to the formation of mixed compositions and their deployments, which actually affects the increase in the cost of transporting housing, separate life, and this also for the complete composition of the BiH Armed Forces. If we exclude the Ministry of Defence, the other 60 users have an increase in the total number of employees by 9%. Naima, the total number of employees in BiH institutions rose from 2007 to 2008, from 965 employees, from 21,412 planned at the end of 2007 to 22,377, employed at the end of 2008. A 10% gross salary increase has been planned for all users in line with plans by adopting a new Law on Payments in BiH institutions. Therefore, civil servants' salaries in institutions have not been increased since '98. years I think it's worth mentioning. In addition to increasing the number of employees, there has also been a high increase in compensation for a warm meal from 8 to 10 marks a day, in line with Council Decisions of Ministers of 2007. If we compare the total capital expenditure financed by the 2008 BiH institutions' budget, there is an increase of 120% compared to the 2007 budget. An increase of 33 million marks in 2007 to 73 in 2008. I have already cited the largest capital investment in a recent review of multi-annual capital investments. In addition to the above, the largest remaining capital investments planned by the 2008 Budget are as follows: The Ministry of Defence plans to increase the costs for the purchase of weapons and military equipment for professional military compositions; The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has planned the procurement of equipment for the judicial management system – ICT equipment for the Central Information System of Justice. In order to ensure a higher level of discipline and to make the monitoring of the total cost of users more transparent and based on recommendations and audits, the 2008 budget does not have a specific purpose programme. Funds for these programmes adopted in the 2007 Budget: there were 132 programmes totalling 81 million marks, with 32 users in the 2008 Budget planned as part of the economic categories of regular user consumption, i.e. Liquid transfers. In 2008, the item Liquid Grants appeared in... amounting to 59 million marks in 2008. Current grants as structural expenditure represent current expenditure but are particularly reflected in order to monitor their dedicated implementation and the procedures for their engagement. They went through the transfer of special purpose programs that are no longer available, as I have explained now, and represent the transfer of funds to the user of the grant from the budget. In the draft budget adopted by the Council of Ministers, current grants amounted to 19.209.000 marks and were allocated to 18 liquid grenades: FIPA, Ministry of Communications and Transport, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Return Fund. The BiH Presidency then increased the current budget by 40 million marks by the following users: The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to the already existing Current Grant The programme of return of refugees and displaced persons added 25 million marks; the Ministry of Civil Affairs: a new current contract was opened, a grant titled "Cotisation 23" for access to EU funds of 10 million marks. The presidency said that these funds were given to open BiH access to research and research organisations according to EU funds, i.e. seven or FP 7 projects in 2007-2013, for which EUR 53 million was planned and according to the European Commission's recommendation, Commissioner for Research, Mr Janez Potočnik, on his visit to BiH in the autumn of 2007; the Foreign Ministry... opened a new grant under the name EU Market Accession Programme of 5 million marks. It is also explained that in order to create the necessary conditions for access to the EU market, in particular for certification and accreditation. The total increase in the expenditure of all users compared to the 2007 budget is 224 million marks. In the next nine users, there was an increase of 172 million marks. In relation to them, nine of them are participated by 77% of the total increase, which is: The Ministry of Defence: 57 million Marks (I explained due to the completion of the transition procedure, because of the application of the new Regulation on salaries and fees and acceptance of NATO Pact standards; the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees: 36 million Marks for increasing participation in the Programme of Returns of Refugees and Displaced Persons and the Programme of Electricisation for the Needs of Realised Returns; Then, the Ministry of Civil Affairs: 17 million Marks (transition for direct transfer of the purchase of passports, ordinary, biometric, increase in number of employees, and due to the fact that the BiH Presidency has included in the draft budgets of the funds and funds in the Fund of these funds, which I have explained); then, the Administration for indirect taxation has an increase of 14 million marks (hardy for the purchase of the funds of the funds of the FPKP, the FP, the FP, the FP, CP, CP, CP, CP, CP, CP, CP, CP, CP, GP, CP, GP, GP, GP, GP, GP, GP, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C, C 24 Allow a few words on the movement from the Single Account Office for indirect taxation. Compared to 2007, the BiH institutions' 2008 draft budget, adopted by the Council of Ministers, raises 7% from the Single Account, and the presidency's proposal increases by a rate of 12% compared to 2007. On the other hand, the growth of planned funds from the Single Account in entity budgets is growing 23% in the RS budget, and 31% in the Federation budget compared to the basic budgets of entity governments adopted at the beginning of 2007, means without those rebalances that were at the end of the year. If the planned funds from the Single Account in the entity government budgets for 2008 are compared to the planned funds in the rebalanced budgets for 2007, which were at the end of the 12th month, then we have growth: in RS 2.7% and in the Federation 13.1%). At the time that the BiH institutions were allocated 632 million for 2007, it was participatory in 2007, which was the share of 16.3% of the total projected revenues for 2007. The planned 675 million from the Single Account that we made in the 2008 Draft Budget was adopted by the Council of Ministers by a share of 13.9% of the current revenue projection. On the other hand, the planned 710m marks of the institutions, adopted by the BiH presidency, account for 14.7% of the participation in the Single Account. Here, these were basic characteristics. I hope I haven't been long when it comes to starting points and goals and constitutional basis, and here I have given a few basic parameters when it comes to financial indicators and requirements and accepting what was considered necessary. Here, I would ask all MPs to at this stage be supported by the budget, and then through the second reading we eventually find ways and respect the corrections as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15762	Thank you. Since it is 11.35 and according to our conclusion, the College has written a certain conclusion that has been given to our service to be placed on the Web Parliamentary Assembly and delivered in writing to the club presidents, so you can take it with you. Those who want to go to the protest and I wouldn't open the debate but after we've finished meeting here at 13.15 and then open a debate about the draft. Thank you. [[PAUZA]] ...session. We're at the fifth item of the agenda. The debate is about the budget. I'll read you a list of registered Members of Parliament for discussion. Please be quiet. So, Mr. Belkić, pa Bahtić, pa Dolić, pa Novaković, pa Križanović and please continue to register electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15764	No microphone 25 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15765	Dear Ambassador Bahtić as President of the Commission. Did you need to say it on behalf first? Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15766	I will say very briefly that the Commission for Finance and Budget adopted the principles of the Bill on the Budget of BiH institutions and international commitments for 2008 – first reading. I call on MEPs to support this commission's proposal, and in the second reading, let's see that through the amendment we find some compromises so as not to question the functioning of BiH institutions. So much and thank you. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15767	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Belkić. Here you go, second vice president.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15768	Here, I have a need to thank Mr. Vrankić for, so to speak, further clarifications and this introductory presentation that he performed in the name of the promoter. Of course, I, Mr. Vrankić, here, not only do I treat not only as a promoter but also as a processor, and I answered the most about it because in that person I think I have the opportunity to get an answer to the only question I'm going to ask. So I'm interested, and probably all of you here, since we're now discussing the first-reading budget, when we're discussing, is this project, or is this document done by appropriate principles? So, I want an explanation: is this proposal, so this proposal that you've explained, are any principles, any principles or limitations violated, or any restrictions? First of all, I mean fiscal stability, macroeconomic stability, any restrictions on the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank. Is this project potentially questioning the functioning of any other level of government? Does BiH, by adopting such a budget, question credit service, etc.? You, Mr. Minister, have, through your opening statement, touched... some of the questions that I mention here, but it would be good for you to generally say and stand as a profession, as a ministry: has this draft budget violated any of these principles, or restrictions that I was talking about? Of course, I am not asking for an answer right now but after other discussions and any questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15769	Thank you. Dear MP Dolić is now in line, then Novaković, Križanović, Okolić, Bešlagić. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15770	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I must admit that, after all that has been happening in the procedure of proposing the Budget of the BiH institution for 2008, it is not pleasant for me as an MP to discuss this issue today. The fact that we are discussing the budget in Parliament in mid-February of the current financial year, I suppose, speaks for itself about the state and those who lead it, but also about this Parliament. For a month, only witnesses and ping-pong viewers who play the Council of Ministers and the BiH presidency with the budget. The meč, of course, ended unresolved and we came to him not as Parliament, but as some arbitration committee that should be arbitration between the Council of Ministers and the Presidency or ultimately within the Presidency. Of course, according to the practice already in place, and this issue before Parliament was discussed in the media and further increased citizens' headaches. Judging from what was happening in kicking the budgets from the Council of Ministers to the Presidency and vice versa, it is clear that the Council of Ministers continues to function as an unsettled radio and that discussions rather than at the Council of Ministers' meeting would rather lead through the media. The debate on the BiH presidency showed that instead of three statesmen in the presidency, we have three political wise men who use every opportunity to send political messages to their parties through their positions in the presidency. The 2008 budget debate was a real opportunity, and this financial year, by chance, is an election year, and then it's all clear. As far as the first reading is concerned, I will briefly say a few of my questions and observations to the proposed budget. First, it is not clear to me and to me after Mr. Minister's presentation whose proposal is this – the Council of Ministers or the BiH Presidency, given that they are different content. Of course, by the logic of the matter, we have received a proposal from the BiH Presidency. Secondly, what are the conventions for the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and the State because of the fact that the budget was not passed despite the law until 31 December 2007? Third, why is the fiscal and economic policy measures that would require the budget to be based on what is common in all normal countries, following BiH documents for 2008 not measures of fiscal and economic policy? Fourthly, methodologically, there has been some, true, progress in creating and explaining the budget, but full transparency requires even more analysis and more concrete reasoning. The fifth, what is a characteristic, unfortunately, of all levels of government in creating and adopting budgets, is that everyone deals exclusively with how to seize as much of what has already been chosen, not how to create material and systemic assumptions to collect more income, i.e. to increase the material basis for collecting income and to reduce as many cases of evasion and avoidance of commitments. Next, although we are much called and full of mouth rationalization, judging by what is offered and what is planned, and in this budget there are no signs of any rationalization. The number of employees has always been the means through which the largest manipulation within the budget and individual requests of the budget users is being made, and unfortunately for this budget, I would say, the presence is far more than ever before. Payments and salary fees are planned, and then 27 employment is not carried out and the funds are overrun for other purposes, or they are increased, or in the increase of salaries and compensation of existing employees. It is symptomatic, too, that the budget, which is ahead of us, plans to allocate for contractual and occasional commitments, plans to increase by 116% or 27 million KM more than the previous year or the total planned funds for these purposes in the 2008 budget are about 50 million, which is 5% of the total budget. If we know what appears under the terms of the Contracting and the occasional affairs, then it is, at the very least, symptomatic. I would also like a plan to explain to me that the Central Bank's revenues are increasing from 20 to 60 million KM or three times the revenue achieved in 2007. As far as I know, foreign exchange reserves have, truth, a positive trend of growth, but the trend of triple growth is certainly not realistic and then the question of rational management of state reserves in 2007 and previous years is raised. As for the other items and suggestions, I will try to do so in the second reading of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15771	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15772	Dear colleagues, members of the College, I wish the minister had explained his proposal or a proposal from the Council of Ministers today. I think in that variant we'd have a more... quality explanation for some items here. Indeed, for the first time since the adoption of the first Budget of the BiH institutions, here we are now in 2008 that we have the situation that the draftor and budget processor is the Presidency, and that the budget defends, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, the minister who was not in favour of this budget. I guess that's another precedent or nonsensic that seems to us here in BiH, and it's not much of a problem. You see, from the very beginning of working on this budget, we have had a series of very strange situations. We have the RS position on not accepting the budget before anyone saw the budget, carried out to the media, of course. And then, afterwards, we have a proposal from the Council of Ministers which does not accept any of the Bureau, although, of the three members of the Bureau, two members come from the same parties from which the Council of Ministers is composed, from the parties that gave their ministers to the Council of Ministers. After that, the Council of Ministers – I guess, fully aware of its position, and the way in which this budget was concerned, speaks, in fact, of their position in this entire system – returns the ball to the Presidency which is eager to welcome and proposes the draft budget that we have today. And you see, I heard from the minister that it's a shame there's no fiscal council because if there was a fiscal council, then we'd get all the budgets in line, and today we wouldn't have a problem. We have a Budget Coordination Body that has an assistant minister in place. I got the impression that these ministerial assistants were making their private views on this Coordination Body and that they had nothing to do with the ministries from which they were encouraged and that at these meetings of the koordinacion Body, no one gave them any instructions on how they would behave... the budget. Of course not, and of course the ministerial assistants had clear instructions for conduct in the Coordination Body. And, precisely because of these clear instructions, there was no budget, that is, the Council of 28 ministers, precisely because they were too clear, the Council of Ministers could not make a budget acceptable to the parliamentary majority, or to the members of the Bureau. So, I don't think there's a problem with the Fiscal Council. Although the Fiscal Council would help solve the problem, I think the problem is between parties that make up the parliamentary majority and their seriousness towards issues that are important to everyone, not just for BiH institutions, but for everyone in BiH. And if we were to analyse this situation, then this would be sufficient reason for these institutions or those members of the Bureau or that Council of Ministers to offer their resignation. Of course, the Council of Ministers cannot offer a resignation because there is no Council of Ministers, people are not even elected, has a chairman who has proposed the team. We didn't finish it, and how people will resign when they have nothing to resign from. I'm talking about members of the Bureau not to talk about their resignation. They barely got their hands on those positions, and now they're going to resign! So, gentlemen, for those reasons, we've got this budget, and I have to say there's a series of illogicalities here, and speaking of principles, I'll only take two things. Namely, the section that speaks of reaching or failing to reach an agreement with budget users, on page 91, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, says: it has not been reached or has not been heard from the ministry's request of 100 million. Reason: the amount of 100 million KM could not be provided with original revenues under the overall draft budget. Then the presidency, it is said, added 25 million. I guess the Bureau found these original revenues that the Council of Ministers couldn't find, so they settled it. So they're not for 100, but there they are for 25 million and they decided to do someone else's business. Namely, they're dealing with something that's not in the jurisdiction of these institutions. And that's the first injured principle, the principle of the distribution of jurisdiction, not the distribution of money. The next one is on page 93, again, where the Presidency, unlike the Council of Ministers, places 5 million for the EU Market Accession Programme, in order to create the necessary conditions for access to EU markets, in particular, on Cyrillic, but particularly on certification and accreditation. And we formed institutions and we have the Institute of Accreditation and we have the Directorate for European Integration and we have institutions within the Ministry who also cared about this and who didn't seem to know they needed money, so a member of the Bureau remembered that they needed money and that they needed another 5 million that they didn't even know they needed! Dear gentlemen, it would be best if all those who participate in this budget were once again to sit down for the same table and solve all the problems that have been said and have not been said about making this budget. To enable them, we don't think this budget should go through at this stage. Furthermore, we think that by not accepting the principles of the budget, we will force all those who participate in it to deal seriously with this issue at one table, not through the media, and to come to a budget which, as many times earlier, will be adopted by emergency procedure because, I guess, this is a rare opportunity to discuss the budget. So far, we've usually adopted it the last day of March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15773	Thank you. Dear MP, second Deputy Belkić, replica. After that, Mr. Martin's replica. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15774	It may not be a replica, but it may be the incorrect assumption of this finding by Mr. Novaković, as he said, got it, did it! The emphasis is: did members of the Presidency get hold of these positions? I mean, Mr. Novaković, members of the BiH presidency, and these now and those before, won hundreds of thousands of votes in those direct elections. So they're chosen by the voices of people, and by the significant numbers of people's voices, unlike some of us sitting here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15775	Dear Ambassador Raguž, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15776	Well, my replica refers to a part of Mr Novaković's presentation, namely to the requirement that this is now coming back again and that some budgetary negotiations are being re-engaged and referred to Article VIII of the Finance (Head of the Constitution of BiH) where, point 1 of the Presidency's proposal, the Parliamentary Assembly adopts the budget each year. We have here a proposal from the Presidency, we are Parliament and we can only talk here about the arguments, the items and the justification of certain items and I think that we should return to that and that Parliament should not fall into this ping-pong game that is produced between institutions and the public when this is an important issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15777	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković: reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15778	Well, you see, maybe I actually used a rough expression to get the functions. But I have to say that the choice of one member of the presidency was very strongly disputed by one nation, so I got the impression that it was taken somehow from that people, and that's why I said it and, of course, it was really not my intention to degrade the number of votes of any member of the presidency, and especially the way and legitimacy of their choice, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15779	Wait a minute, please. Let's move on. Dear Ambassador, replica; Ambassador Zorić, a replica. Here you go. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15780	Since Mr. Belkić finished his three-point exposure, and I understand that, then, as I will, he said unlike some who sit here. I think everyone here is legally elected and in accordance with the law and I don't think we should stay three points. You should tell me what that means. The number of votes doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15781	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15782	The number of votes doesn't matter. That's how the presidency differs by several hundred thousand, but the same voice is also true here. The vote is allowed to prefer someone on the list but they don't have to. So each vote is worth the same, whether it's given to strangers or individually. Don't open it here and leave it unannounced. To me, a legal representative who was elected here with one vote, if his party, I don't know, got as much as a member of the presidency who got, say, 400 thousand votes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15783	Dear Ambassador Belkić: a reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15784	The time I... replicated on the finding in this House. Therefore, this parliament questioned the election of members of the Presidency, or belittled. I wanted to say that those people who were chosen to stand behind them are people's voices like those before, and that's a lot of votes. So they go out alone, they're not on the lists, unlike us here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15785	Thank you. I hope we've cleared up some things. Next up for the discussion, honourable MP Križanović. Here you go. Wait a minute, please. We'll take a break if you want to discuss it elsewhere. Here you go, Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15786	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, may I? Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, I would first of all like to say that I am pleased, very pleased with the opening presentation of Minister Vrankić, who really explained the Budget Proposal well from the point of view of the profession. However, I, as a previous question, may be an objection that may not be addressed to the ministry as a processor, but they deserve the previous two questions, an answer, so that we can carry out a more quality discussion on the proposed budget. 31 First of all, I would like to ask the question of the future and the future budgets really well-intentioned: How long will we be late to receive the Budget Proposal? Here today, no one has mentioned in a single word the reasons why both the Constitution and the law of this country are being violated by the delay of the Budget Proposal. And why is the BiH Parliament always in a position to save any deadlines when it comes to it? And all of that, of course, goes to the expense of the quality of the budget that we'll hopefully bring. The other thing that bothers me is that, in addition to the objectives listed here, the minister explained that they had, let me say, a significant role in drafting the budget, I have not seen or noticed that one of the objectives of saving – savings and responsible management and budget spending? In a situation like this where the country is located, in economic and social terms, this goal, in my opinion, should have taken a very high place, one of the priorities. Since this was neither established nor set as a goal, we then have a picture of the budget that almost all budget users have approximately a linear increase of 10, and above, percent more. The indicator is poor and that 26% salary growth in this situation for the country is unacceptable. Regardless of what someone will say, new institutions are foreseen, the strengthening of institutions, etc. are foreseen. and this as indicators – a very bad message. So the budget, you can say, is a good part of the mirror of a society, as it refers to its problems, priorities and how it tries to solve them. I'm only going here with two examples. You see, one of the priorities is for us and NATO, okay. We predicted the budget increase of the Department of Defense by 57 million compared to last year. But you see, what will be done with that 57 million. Will something really be done in equipment, training, first of all, the Armed Forces to make them better prepared to join NATO? Of the estimated 300 and... how many millions for the Department of Defense, over 80% will be personal expenses. Where's the equipment? Where's the training? That won't get us anywhere near NATO. Not to mention that not only the military enters NATO, the state enters with all its capacities and quality. For a year in the context of what I'm saying, we can't find an agreement on the transfer of immovable and mobile property, military property from entity to state, to simply begin to manage it properly, or to get rid of how this army we're paying for, the professional army, would not be a guard and would guard certain objects that may be unnecessary and unsupervised to the army. We miss them, we heard today or at the last session, and he seduces and hospitals and prisons, etc. And we have huge, huge potentials that are dead capital. Well, here we are today, and we've been prone to the problem of this building that's been completed, a year hasn't been inhabited. So we will be able to correct some of this bill through amendments but it is a pity that we did not have a timely proposal of this law so that through a thorough debate, we can return the draft of this budget to a stronger foundation, which would result in a quality approach in the interests of the whole state and society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15787	Replica: Dear Ambassador Bahtić. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15788	A colleague says, "The budget is the mirror of a country." Turns out our country and entities are bigger than our country. I can't accept it. We know what the budget is: a document to achieve the political-32 economic objectives of a country. And number two - I understand the discussion of my colleague Križanović – savings? We're all for saving. In my opinion, his discussion comes down that the maltenes we needed a smaller budget, less items. I'm for a bigger budget, for bigger items, and that what's planned to be spent, not like here that some have planned and half have not spent. For me, everyone incompetent is the one who doesn't spend it plannedly. The more you spend and the more you see a result. And I'm not about to go, always going means going up, growing, nothing falling. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15789	Wait a minute. Dear Ambassador Kalabić's replica, and then you'll put it together, probably.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15790	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I must say, exactly the replica of Mr. Križanović. Since it would be easier for all of us to follow the debate, and that we who are obliged to record attitudes, we are also running some sort of calculation, let's say, we who are preparing for both the vote and just now, if I understand correctly, the Club of the Serbian Democratic Party was clear. They didn't take part in this, and they don't think to vote for it. They also said why they didn't think to support it. But now it has caused me a confusion that the SDP will not support this and their proposal. I expected, starting from zero, that at least those who propose the budget would vote for it today, I think, so we'll look some way further. And we have one truly for this country a depressing situation. I once said in Parliament's session that many political parties put interest in the party and that they were interested that BiH was in reality for them. We have a situation that the Presidency, and it's known who the chairman is, how long he's held this proposal and the interest of that party where he's representing one position today, could have woken up, otherwise he could have been pictured. We have today and a debate on this SDP Resolution on the need for European integration and, I don't know, if this is a relationship to European integration, and this budget story, then I'm not sure that we have both a consensus and that we have a deal. A member of the SDP, currently chairing the presidency, is here to sign the budget. He performed certain, consistent with his constitutional authority, made certain adjustments, did certain things that he thought he should do, and was expected to have support here. If this isn't a game with institutions, then I don't know in any way what it is, no matter how much trouble there is in this House. At least to this day, we can't be attributed to any guilt and any responsibility for this budget story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15791	Dear Ambassador Križanović: an answer to two replicas, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15792	Well, I'll start with this grief. ... I really, here, we can see a stenogram, I didn't say anywhere that we wouldn't support this budget, this budget proposal. I didn't say we wouldn't. But, of course, I have a right, no matter what, I just suggested it, too, to say which are the bad sides. This is not an attack or condemnation of the proposal, but I have sought the reasons for delays that make it impossible for us to discuss in a more complex climate and to come up with a better proposal. I didn't say 33 in one word that we wouldn't or would not support it. And I said, I even said I hoped we'd adopt the budget. Secondly, I fully respect, I have nothing to respect or disrespect, the mandated constitutional draftr of the budget is the Presidency. And I'm not going to replicate my colleagues Bahti all, because I didn't even talk about what he was talking about. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15793	Okay, correct. Dear Ambassador Bećirović: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15794	About what he was saying now, colleague Kalabić. I would like to say that what a member of the BiH presidency stood for, as you say, is whether, and SDP member Željko Komšić and what the SDP MPs' Club stands for, there is no, as you wanted to show, any diametrically different approach. Both Željko Komšić and the SDP MPs' club are in favour of certain principles, principles of rationality, savings, responsible treatment of BiH taxpayers' money and are in favour of a larger budget of BiH. If there's a conflict, it doesn't exist with the SDP. There is a SNSD Club, which has offered us before the start of this session, whether or not it has raised the question of the NATO Treaty entry resolution, and on the other hand, we want a smaller BiH budget. Now, that's not going with each other. The NATO Pact, when the state sincerely and truly wants to enter, then it is clear that certain funds must also be invested in the Ministry of Defence, etc. so that the army would be trained and indeed able to enter NATO's pact.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15795	Take it easy, 'cause I got a line on this. I think that, Mr Bećirović, you are trying to make a story here that the SNSD has different approaches because I am one of the promoters of the NATO resolution, and I will be one of the promoters of how to reshape certain items in the Ministry of Defence: to reduce the pay item, and to increase the capital expenditure item, to intensify training and adequately equip our forces, and to go with the proposal that the Presidency consider the current structure and size of the Armed Forces to reduce it, but to professionalise and to make better equipment. So, please, don't affect that there are any other initiatives here in the SNSD than those initiatives we've launched, in the ways we're going to talk. So wait for all the budget debate here, and you'll hear the answers to your questions. The following came to the discussion: Ambassador Erić, then Bešlagić, and Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15796	Dear gentlemen, as a member of the committee, I have an obligation to remind you, and also to comment on this draft budget that is ahead of us. We adopted and told ourselves last year by 12 34, especially the members of the commission, that we would consider this budget somewhere in November. November is over and one minute to 12 again. That's one thing. Secondly, we agreed to respect the principles for which we were elected and the way the budget is brought, which is most important for the functioning of this state, in which most swear. The budget was to be formed and proposed from below and to come to our commission, i.e. from you, from base to commission, we to the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers of the Presidency, and then many ambiguities on that path would be removed, but we have, however, decided on this quick variant: to bring the budget as it suits us within an hour, that the commission that also needs to take a short time to propose to you here that we do not waste any time we adopt, what we have suggested. I'll tell you that we heard the minister downstairs, he has good suggestions and the fact that he feels better in those proposals, and as far as all these other things are concerned: Budget is catastrophic! In order not to go back to the numbers now, and we already have them here, so we have to well underline that we have 200 and a few million more this year, and that in the streets and in the companies, the government is starving, and they are filling this budget, and now all of us out of here need to ask them: well, you're giving taxes, we're passing laws, you're doing it well, but we have institutions in the country that worry that your budget is getting bigger next year, that the next budget is going to be bigger by 500 million, so we're going to schedule it. And where do we deploy it? We're redeploying it to the departments that are the consumer type, a ministry that we haven't analyzed whether they've spent it. Here, you have the Employment Agency: a million and a half! We ask the question: Who has these gentlemen hired in the past? So there's a lot of these agencies that haven't done their jobs, haven't hired enough people, and already this year they're planning a budget and they're putting us as cowards' eggs, so we're voting out some budget that they're going to spend, and they haven't made their commitments last year. Will they spend this million and a half? For the next two years, I need to vote again for another three million for them, and then they need to wave at us and tell us these MPs are thieves, incompetent, and they don't know their jobs! Please, there's a problem, and obviously everything we've said before that some ministers, the ministries, they're not taking care of the base, we're not taking care of the procedure, we're going to get into this position. In order not to owe it, one important line was: The overrun of the entity budgets was in last year. We don't know how many or how many entities there have been overruns. We're interested in what the IMF thinks about this and whether the IMF has agreed to this budget since all the budgets have passed this procedure so far. And my proposal is to reconsider all these questions and have time for us to sit down for 15 days and take the commission that you have proposed, i.e. It has been tasked to reduce this torment, and to propose that more team is involved than to examine it down there in an hour and say, "Here, the commission has unanimously accepted this budget, we're going to adopt it, etc." I think we're going to do ourselves a lot of damage with this and what's most important: most of you MPs, and the first one, I have no idea what the next budgets are going to look like in the next two years, to meet the commitment that we're here for, that is. If we decided to solve the refugee issue this year, then we should have put an emphasis on refugees and solved these issues and next year solve the next big problem. If we keep this up, we'll have the story Mr. Jovičić mentioned, so the consumer doesn't know where these billions and two hundred went, and we voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15797	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Here you go. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15798	Dear colleagues, I, apart from these discussions that were previously led about the budget process, would not want to talk, because we know that, in fact, at a stage where we should have a process, we had a crisis of government and we just had fun first of all about keeping the government alive, and the budget was aside and we just came into a situation where the budget was done the way it was done. On the other hand, it is indicative that everything from swearing that the development budget is to say we will not support the budget from those coalition leaders and I do not want to discuss these things either because if most in Parliament do not have a view of the budget, do not expect the SDP and the opposition in this regard to be crucial about the adoption of this budget. But compared to the budgets we've been getting before, I as an MP have to say that with this budget we have one terrible step, a step that is structurally, in a quality way far better than the budgets we've been making, let's say, last year or last year. I'll just list one thing where I'd like to see if that's a principle. Of the 61 budget users, I speak, everything in six budget users has been retained by the Special Purpose Programme. I wish this special purpose programme had been expelled in six of these users, too, that would have been said that the budgeting process made sure that in fact every item has its name and last name. On the other hand, I am saying this for the reason that in the Parliamentary Assembly under the Special Purpose Programme, the article was the Clubs of MPs of Parliamentary Parties. Those items are gone. So, I'm now speaking as an MP: whether in this budget, whether support for Members' clubs is foreseen to know whether or not we're going to have it. If she's not there, we can concentrate, if she has, where she is. On the other hand, I would like these six users to be removed from this item of special purpose, to be found there in certain programming measures where they are implemented and where they are used. I think it's good to discuss the principles and give the possibility, because we have another half of February and March the month, the end of March that for the observations that would be made on this budget, it means amendments, that they should be discussed, and that perhaps now, by us, who have been tasked with keeping an eye on, they try to fit into this budget, and in this way to fix it, as far as it's possible to fix it in relation to the situation that was objectively in the last year... for budgeting. If we're going to, I repeat again, the budget should actually be adopted at the moment when we had a problem with the survival of the government. I think that, in that sense, we should go with the proposals, and in that sense, I suggest that all critical considerations for this budget be taken into analysis and put through the amendment phase to work, so that we can say, here, we as MPs have done our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15799	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15800	... Chairman, fellow MPs, respected ministers, certainly that the debate in the first reading on the BiH institutions' 2008 Draft Budget for 2008 is very important for Parliament and that this is the most important political and economic and political document, which BiH brings in 36 this year, and it would be very important that this document was adopted before the end of the previous year, but now that we are discussing, although we are within the legal deadline, the SNSD has both on commissions and on the overall debate on the draft budget had certain remarks and, as you know, we voted on the commission and against the principles of this draft budget, the complete document for this year. We believe that in the overall procedure of the constitutionally authorised proposing, therefore, the BiH Presidency, the situation has happened for the first time since the Presidency, as constitutional proposing, proposed the draft budget, that one member of the Presidency was elected and that this very important document was adopted without compromise, or the consent of all three members of the Presidency; this is, I say, for the first time. In this regard, it is symptomatic that even the Presidency did not accept another version of the proposed draft budget by the Council of Ministers, although the draft budget in the Council of Ministers was unanimously adopted. The presidency, i.e. the chairman of the Bureau, has determined that this draft budget by the Council of Ministers increases by more than 40 million KM and that the total amount is increasing by 20%, expenditure by 29%, expenditure, compared to the previous year in the total amount of 219 million, which in a country where public spending exceeds 50% does not send a clear message on its definition of Euro-Atlantic integration, especially since this does not serve as an example that in developed countries public spending is below 35%. It is also unacceptable that the second proposal of the chairman, i.e. the Council of Ministers, is addressed by the chairmanship of the Presidency at 45 million more than is envisaged, and that what is now the minister, also greatly explaining the overall allocation of funds from the Single Account of the Indirect Taxation Authority, and despite this proposal, which was around 7%, increased to 12%. In the past practice in the Budget, the BiH institutions and international obligations are also called, not by chance – therefore, a budget that has neither a social or development component – the court said that between 2003 and 2006, the neutral assets were cumulatively around 62 million, and forecasts were that last year will be close to 15 million. In that sense, it is surprising to increase this amount. Also planned is a high growth in current expenditure of 33% and it moves differently, from about 19% to 157%. It is confusing that BiH has made a document of the 2007 Framework Budget. – 2010 and that even the 2008 Budget Plan projection in the document is less than 15% than the proposed one, so 15% is higher than the 2008 Framework Budget document provides for total funding. Overall, this situation leads to the possibility of causing financial instability of lower levels of government in BiH, and we have more, I will not interpret individual proposals, but I will look back at one more. We have a paradoxical situation that, for example, an entry card for pre-accession funds, when proposed by BiH, the total amount would be about a million and 500 thousand marks, while the authorised proponent proposes 10 million converting marks or, for example, issues concerning funds for the Ministry of Foreign Trade, and that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations did not require, plan for some amount of 5 million, while... The Institute of Accreditation has its original revenues so that these requirements can be realised as well. In that sense, we in the SNSD believe that, if there is no way of coming up with a proposal that would be acceptable in the context of what we have presented, we will not be in a position to accept the principles of this draft budget, in addition to our will and commitment to end the budget, and the Parliamentary Assembly is one of the budgetary users – and our goal is to adopt this document as soon as possible. We do not send a good message to either the abroad or the European Union, unless this 37 document is in a position to compromise and be modified in some way in relation to this proposal. He, in the form in which he was proposed by an authorised promoter, is not acceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15801	Thank you. The following came Ambassador Ivanković, then Jašarević, and Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15802	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I will read a conclusion adopted in this house with some 35 votes when adopting the budget for a little less than a year, and it reads. The BiH Council of Ministers undertakes to, together with the committees of the House of Representatives, consider the Law on Value Added Tax and on Expenses and propose their amendments, by increasing the taxes on luxury goods, taking into account the protection of domestic production, and the funds raised from the increase in the luxury tax provided for in the budget rebalancing or budget for next year for incentives in agricultural production. I have no information that anything has been done about this, even though a consensus has been reached in this house, it means 35 votes, where the decision is rarely adopted. I would also ask the budgetor to give us some information on this question: Is this what he intends to do for a future period? And I would remind you: that last year we ratified the CEFTA agreement, that this year we initialled a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Its signing gives us part of the agreement with the European Union, which means that we have put more pressure on BiH market and CEFTE countries and the European Union. This is where we talked about the incentives from the entities that should balance the situation, where last year we witnessed that it didn't happen. Amendments to the Customs Tariff Act were advocated in order to eliminate customs duties on machinery, equipment, repromation, in order to facilitate producers. Unfortunately, that hasn't happened yet, and I'm afraid that the deficit, which last year has grown by a billion marks, is not much bigger this year and that, practically, our production, especially agricultural, and will not survive that competition in the next year or two days. Here, that's it, and I'm gonna try to change what I think I should do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15803	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jašarević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15804	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to try not to repeat anything that has already been said here, which I agree with, except that I refuse to repeat, but I would say some things that have not been said so far, no matter how many of the other MPs may be heard in this session. Obviously, to the objectives set out in the opening statement by the finance minister, we could not find any more serious comments, not by 38 of their structure of objectives, not by a given priority, and, if we spoke about them, we would hardly add to these numbered goals some, which would have a higher priority; perhaps some of them might add but I will say why it would not make much sense. The question remains, with how much money can we achieve these goals? We can achieve them better with the amount established by the BiH presidency. But I know, I know, so I am convinced that we can achieve this with the framework set by the BiH Council of Ministers. That is why I think it would be good for us to reach unanimity in support of this budget at this first stage, with certain conclusions, which in that amendment phase would lead to a budget so that we can bring it in successfully, as soon as possible, as our Rules of Procedure suggests. So, I am convinced that all of this proposed by the Council of Ministers and a specific framework proposed by the Presidency can be installed in the amount of a billion and 186 million, as proposed by the Council of Ministers, so that it can also be maintained from the Single Account, as established by the Council of Ministers, and that support for return, access funds and this certification is once more considered between the Finance and Budget Commission and the Resoring Ministry of Finance and the Resort Minister... which has there in its divisions of this proposed amount. So it's simple math. It will be harder than that to agree on a large number of amendments, to which we all have the right as MPs and as clubs, but I would not, therefore, be afraid, because we have certain experiences, and we have established goals. So I am convinced that amendments can also be fairly simple to carry out their selection, and only those that are truly justified can be respected. So, I think it can come out of this situation by voting on this conclusion before adopting the principle of the budget, that the Council of Ministers' framework for achieving the objectives set out in this budget is sufficient, and that there is enough interference from the Single Account; then we would have a situation to have reasons for all parties to support that budget. We all know that, we've all done that job for a long time. The postponement of the budget is pointless. The postponement of budgets and until this time of year is pointless and if there was no crisis, which I don't have to explain, we would have had full effects with this money, with this small amount of money. We are now discussing a larger amount, wasting time. If I didn't know what amount to find him there in May or June, and I can't even think about it afterwards, it wouldn't make any sense. We would discuss fictitious amounts, time would pass, and time and money simply go together, and you can never part time from money, and money can't be separated from anything. I therefore call for such a set of conclusions to be made at the break, which would put the Finance and Budget Committee and the Finance Ministry in the position that the draft budget at the final stage corresponds to what would be acceptable to all parties. Perhaps I am obliged to say that what happened in the presidency would have disappeared on my own. So if this one difference were removed, then the Presidency would lose, so the reason why it was divided in this vote and... the more votes on such a budget would mean that we are aware that we are in a difficult position but at least we do not want it to continue, that difficult position, I think... that it would be a clear message... what we want. So the exit is pretty simple, it needs a little courage, it seems to me that I need a break and that we can bring this to an end. So, on all these issues that are absolutely open, there are more questions, there are hundreds of legitimate questions, but what we should show strength for today can be, there's no need to open up, it's going to be in the amendment phase to fix this budget. Thank you very much. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15805	Thank you. I would like to warn the MPs that all conclusions must come in writing, in writing, and that each of the clubs has the right to the Rules of Procedure to seek a break within the agenda. The break will be when the debate on all points of the agenda is over and the voting time will be scheduled. There's plenty of time to give everybody up in that direction. Next for discussion: Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15806	I'm not going to repeat the views of the representatives of the SDP Club, I'm just going to try to add a few more facts on this subject. It is clear to us that we should have had a budget adopted by the Budget of BiH in December 2007. To be honest, I thought that after 4 December 2007, after paraphrasing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, however, the policy of dialogue, consensus and agreement would finally prevail in this country. However, the budget block is a clear indication that the current parliamentary majority or part of the parliamentary majority does not want to take advantage of the arm and the opportunity given by the EU with the initialling of this agreement. Although after 4 December we witnessed a very optimistic statement as if we had solved all the key problems in this country, we from the opposition, especially from the SDP, indicated that there should be one dose of moderation and caution and that these announcements, optimistic announcements, after 4 December should only be confirmed on the right topics, on the most serious topics, so to speak. Realisation of the Mostar Declaration, here is the budget – these are questions where to manifest whether we truly want to join the EU or not! Unfortunately, what we can see so far seems to be a re-replication in 2007, and in 2007, it is nothing but synonyms for the country's ineffectiveness and inadequacy when it comes to the EU's approach. The SDP expected, however, to be able to get the parliamentary majority to stand before the parliament... with one agreed draft budget. However, here I especially want to say this now, instead of some at all costs wanting to reduce the budget of BiH, I think that we in both homes, both in the House of Representatives and in the House of Peoples, should ask the essential questions. We also need citizens of BiH to answer some questions, and some of these questions are among other things: Why is this Budget BiH not a development budget? Is this country not in its budget after 13 years of signing Dejton, say, development and social components? The key and essential question, in my opinion, is: Is this the Budget of BiH that leads this country towards the EU? I think this presidency proposal is not enough, too, if we truly want BiH to move towards the EU. Is this the BiH Budget leading to the NATO Pact? It's a fundamental question where we should give answers to these questions. The real question is, why is the adoption of the budget late? Why, after all, do we not respect certain constitutional and legal deadlines? I wish someone from the Council of Ministers could give answers to these questions, not just to be held hostage here and try, that is, that some try only to satisfy the vanity and logic of individual entity powers in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15807	Thank you. 40 Dear Messenger Jukić, then Hadžiahmetović, then Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15808	Here most speakers have already said one fact, which is that they expected it to be good if we had talked about this topic of the 2008 Budget or started the talks at least two or three months ago. And then, of course, according to that one month or two ago, in 2007, we brought this budget. But what's there is, we now have the fact that it is and here I'm going to try to say briefly what I think is most important. So, the Bureau, as an authorised draftr of the budget, failed to reach agreement, i.e. the revote of the two members to the third one. Unfortunately, this is not a desired and convenient situation, but the presidency has decided on such a way of adopting this draft budget, and the budget with the BiH Constitution is the only law defined in the BiH Constitution in the way it is adopted. Therefore, the only authorising officer is the Bureau, unlike all other laws to be passed and for which the proposed representative may be of one representative, group of representatives, Council of Ministers, Presidencies, etc. Another fact that is a constitutional fact, which is that this is the Budget of the BiH institutions and the service of external debt. Well, these discussions from many of my colleagues often get me into that trap when I talk about this document, so I'm talking about what kind of budget it is. Is developmental, which is not developmental etc. The question is: How much without one broad agreement and consensus, I mean here first of all on the schedule, on the schedule, or on the jurisdiction between BiH and other levels of government, how much is it possible to create a different, or very different budget at all? Of course it's possible if you reach an agreement. However, this budget, which came from an authorised promoter, so the Bureau, is to one extent different from the one that left the Council of Ministers and which, as far as I have the information, was agreed, or accepted unanimously. I believe that although it is not, some say there is no need to criticise other levels of government and others. The actual presidency! I think the Presidency should have been aware of it, and it probably also had that fact, but it still felt that the proposed budget was better and better. However, I think that these differences, too, are from this proposal from the Council of Ministers that handled the budget and forwarded it to the Presidency, that it is not so different, that it cannot be in this second phase, what we consider necessary, through amendments. And that's why I think that with all that I've told you, so these failures in the way of preparation, so here's to this moment, to the draft of this budget, the mistakes that have been made to fix themselves at the amendment stage, and I think it would be a much greater harm if we didn't adopt the principles and therefore the first reading, in the first reading of this budget. I understand the position and thinking of representatives from the SNSD Club when they speak, and there they are quite right, that a member of the Presidency who is also from their party is too loud and... that it is logical that they naturally be at the back of Mr Radmanović's thinking and that they have a basis not to accept in the first reading, i.e. the principles of this budget. However, I also think, I have already said, that a solution can be found, that a compromise can be found. It's all the disagreements that are shown here, which can be seen if you look at some details in the revenue side of this draft budget. However, also whether they are realistic, first of all, I mean the revenues from the Central Bank, etc.? I think all of this can be fixed through the amendments and we end up with an amendment that's acceptable to everyone. 41 And here, I will conclude with this, I propose that we still vote today, that is, when the vote is taken, we vote positively on the principles and we accept the draft, or the draft budget in the first reading, and then through the amendments, and, of course, it will need to make certain conclusions that would be binding all together and that it can be defined in which direction it would go, and then we have in the second reading through the amendments so shaped...a budget that will be acceptable to everyone and I think that if we don't do so we'll get into a situation that we have, if we don't have a budget, we have funding at the level of last year's funding. And I'll say what that means. This means that we will question the functioning of some institutions, because it is planned that institutions will be filled in by increasing the cost of detachment for the work of these institutions, and we will be limited, because there will be no increase unless we adopt the budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15809	Thank you. It's a letter of honor. It's a replica, isn't it? Dear Ambassador Ajanović: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15810	I don't want to discuss this much, but I still have to say a replica to my distinguished colleague. ... The first variant of the budget, adopted unanimously by the Council of Ministers, was not adopted by the Presidency, because, as you say, the overvoted, reputed representative of a nation voted... to them. Therefore, the fact is that the first draft budget, which was unanimously accepted by the Council of Ministers, was actually the biggest advocate to return, was Mr Radmanović, at least, as regards how they transferred the paper and how they transferred the information funds and I don't think we should talk so much today about whether someone was too loud or not; it was the only way we could get the budget at this time – to bring it to the Presidency, because the last, lastly, government gave up the moment to correct the proposals that the Presidency had proposed. And it is normal for us to assume our share of responsibility as MPs and, in the amendment phase, to fix or agree or make a budget as necessary. I'm just another short. Please, I don't think we should be overly discussing whether enough money was given to refugees, because I think as much as we would have given, we didn't give enough to get this problem off the agenda after 12 years of signing the Dayton Agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15811	Dear Ambassador Jukić: reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15812	Here, I'll do it very briefly. What I said, I did not say by heart, especially the part where I was saying that the draft budget that went from the Council of Ministers to the Presidency - was said on the committee responsible by representatives from the SNSD when they said - that such a proposal has their support. So I am based on this thinking, or speaking, and I believe that people have been honest and that such a proposal, therefore, the one who left the Council of Ministers has the support of this group of MPs, and what our Rules of Procedure is, etc., 42 we know that the situation is such that without most of that club we will not have the necessary majority to get this document today, this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15813	Thank you. Next up for the discussion, honourable MP Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15814	Thank you. I've been paying attention to the discussion of the principles of the budget. I would like to remind you that there have been a lot more debates about other principles, not budgetary principles, and there have been a lot more debates about the details that follow at another stage in the procedural sense of budget adoption. It was little and surprising for me by some colleagues to call on, say, the procedures laid down by our acts, the Constitution, the laws, where the mandated draftr of the budget, the Presidency, which can deliver its own authentic proposal, can deliver a corrected, or identical proposal from the Council of Ministers, can hire some consulting house from the country or abroad to do the Budget proposal, but the mandated draftr of the budget to this Parliament is only the Presidency. And we received a proposal from an authorised promoter here. And only he can be spoken of and spoken of. I'm surprised it was a little bit more during the procedure and the way this budget should be determined... so we heard from the SDS that it would be good to get the budget from the base, here's literally, finished quote. kolega Savo, I remember very well that when the SDS was in power, it was always from the base, but he probably sent it to the Presidency, because no one else could deliver the proposal to this House from the base, but the Presidency. I'm only saying this for one reason why we unfortunately don't have, as counterpart Dolić said budget as normal countries. Because this is not the BiH budget and therefore cannot have a developmental character, it is the budget of institutions and international obligations. So by definition, he's focused, as he says his name, therefore he can't even include some items, unfortunately. Jerko, I'm sorry. Because here as a budget, the institution can only have the Ministry and that, the institution there, parliament...agriculture, industry, technology, information technology and everything else. When, of course, we change something, then of course we'll have those opportunities. Like every budget and this budget institution must have special purpose programmes. They are always, by definition, envisaged, and they are as such foreseen in the financing system of certain programmes and in the system of spending, as probably anyone from the Ministry of Finance can confirm to you in the system of spending the funds provided for as Special Purpose Programmes. The Council of Ministers' proposals were also discussed here or to return to the Council of Ministers' proposals. I just want to remind you: the proposal that's ahead of us is from an authorised promoter, we can talk about whether, perhaps, the processor in the first or second... had something that someone likes a little bit more or someone less, that's, that's a different story. But I'll just remind you that in that sense, you should then specify what the processor's proposal is thought of: Was the one adopted unanimously in December or the one adopted unanimously in January, and as such addressed to the Presidency. Because I will immediately remind you that the one adopted in December is within the framework of the overall planned incomes from the Single Account, which is one of the key objections in the total equivalent amount as the proposal that now came to us from the authorised proposal. And predicts, among other things, that growth is exactly the same as 12% compared to the previous item. There have also been a lot of words about the concern for the financial stability of lower levels of government. I'm sorry, Col. Prodanović is not here, but as a non-economicist he cares about financial stability; but here's to calm him down: financial stability if he disrupts anything, will not violate the budget of institutions and international obligations, but the budgets of entities that have exceeded...the total mass in relation to projections and other macroeconomic aggregates, which could endanger economic performance across the country. But that's not what this Budget proposal did, and unfortunately he can do it, neither this one nor anyone else, because this is the Budget Institution. And finally, let me just remind you of what we're actually pleading today. We have received a report on the respected legal framework from the Constitutional and Budget Committee, whether the procedure for the current law and the adoption of this law: the Commission for Finance and Budget in some economic sense. But what I want to, what I want to draw your attention to is what we say: Does this proposal respect budget principles, budget principles? And I will remind you: they are as a definition of balance, this proposal fully respected this budgetary principle; the unity of the budget fully respected this principle; reality fully respected the principle; one year also fully respected the principle and scope, referring to incomes and expenditures and individual items. I just want to say, this proposal, in principle, so to the fundamentals of what we say today, is fully consistent. Is he in the details, whether in total mass, whether in the overall structure in terms of income and expenditure, whether something can be increased, somewhere reduced, etc., that's something to follow in the second phase, about then. In that sense, I appreciate the proposal that is ahead of us, which came from an authorised promoter, and I think it would be better if we hadn't dealt with the procedures and the Presidency so much, because we are, we can, from the proposal that comes from the authorised promoter, do whatever we want. Whoever is proposing to this House, this Parliament adopts it and do not undermine the role of this Parliament when it comes to the adoption of this Budget Act. I appreciate... that all the assumptions are respected, the principles budgetaryly on which we plead today, I think there's every assumption that we can adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15815	Mr. Živković: Incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15816	Thank you. Of course, we are not all economists here, but the fact is that we are getting materials from certain people dealing with this problem and the incorrect quote is regarding the principles of this budget – they are not broken. We of the SNSD think that the principles are broken, and only one principle that you have stated, I will try to further explain, and that is the principle of real budget planning. We think that the budget that is currently here in front of us, with the principle that more than 29% has an increase since the previous one in 2007, is unrealistic budget planning. We also believe that there was no comment on the auditors of all the reports that we had here, who wrote in each of their 44 reports that there was insufficient responsibility for budget planning. We also believe that the procedure under the Directorate for indirect taxation is more than 12% unrealistic of the Administration for indirect taxation. We believe that principle has been violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15817	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Here you go: Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15818	Thank you. Well, just on the trail of this debate on principles, I wanted to ask a principled question. So, Lazar Prodanović, as a member of the commission, did not vote for the principles when adopting this budget, and I think, since the representatives of the finance ministry are here, in addition to what SBiH Club President Azra Hadžiahmetović said, so the finance ministry here also says whether these principles are violated or not. And so that thing... one simple way to clear up, not to hide behind some other reason. Is it, then, that they say here at the Ministry of Finance, that these principles in the making of the Budget Proposal have been violated or are they not violated? And to be told right away in a simple way.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15819	Thank you. Since I have no more applications for the discussion, honourable Ambassador Kalabić has yet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15820	Chairman, I don't have anything new to say. Since I think it's a fair deal that we're talking about principles, and that probably... there's a debate going on and we don't mix those two things because it doesn't work, we have a couple of observations. The problem with the replicas, it seems to me two, so we can't react at all to something that eventually comes out of context or interference in discussions. Sometimes I feel like we're making an enemy environment out of entities. Entities are BiH entities and there is no BiH outside these entities. And we do not need to – we can have an argumentable debate about a certain one, but the tone of this debate cannot be so and since it is quite clear that there is also a social and development component in the entities, that all BiH citizens are meeting their needs there – and we do not need to create such an impression that we are taking it from an environment that we are not comfortable with or something like that. I think we should avoid that. And all the money that doesn't come to the budget of the BiH institution, remains in BiH institutions again, remains in entities, so it shouldn't, because sometimes in public we don't think that we don't know who we're negotiating with, that I don't use a more difficult word. The constitutional position of this budget is what it is, and it is funded by the institutions, and we are several times and today it is repeated, and at this moment 45 that reality, and cannot be achieved through that budget or through any other political desire, and I think it should be respected. We have made our views clear, I will not repeat it now in these figures in the story of amendments – since today is not – but it is a story of principles. That is why our members on the committee voted against, since we are convinced that these principles have been violated and I think this Parliament is deciding on principles, deciding on principles, and that the Ministry of Finance can give its opinion. It can speak its mind, but it does not make a decision. Don't expect a verdict from them, so what they're saying is that. On many occasions, this is also explained, especially the principle of balance and the principle of real planning. If you do, here I have one view of a ministry that responds to what the Presidency has done: simply, where people say it is not well planned, that these funds do not need them, then we must have clear proof that it is not realistically planned and that it is an important principle that we must respect and hold, and we believe that we must respect it. It's not an inexplicable principle. We can work them out if we need one at a time. But we don't need to convince ourselves because someone thinks that all principles are respected in general, and that they can't, from that discussion you can get the impression that they can't be broken at all. It turns out no matter what the Presidency did, there's no way they could break the principles. There is. We think that this proposal has violated them and that we need to look for ways to correct these principles. And to me it is a question of normal, Minister of Finance: What does he think of these principles and whether it is realistically planned all exactly, given the latest proposals of the Presidency, although I respect what was said to be a normal presidency proposal, regardless of all the variations they were. And what about accepting planned money in the budget from the institutions? Can all the institutions of the envisaged amounts, in a certain way, be willing to accept them and are all properly prepared? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15821	Thank you. Since we promised, honourable Ambassador Lagumdžija: discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15822	I thank you, Mr. Živković. I think the discussion of counterpart Hadžiahmetović has helped many to still try the procedural thing to focus on constitutional and legal frameworks. The constitution is perfectly clear, and all the conclusions that have been drawn here, especially those that would go towards the coming stage practically ahead of us, a budget that would be agreed by the Finance Commission and the budget with three, come on, conditionally speaking, disputed or included ministries, especially the Ministry of Finance. Such an approach would open up new procedural problems, which means agreeing the Finance Commission and the budget with the ministries. It is not disputed that every ministry with the Finance and Budget Commission, that is, when it comes to the Commission for Finance and Budget, will have its position and will defend the relevant positions, so that no additional conclusions need to be made to make any confusion. But today, we only commit to one thing, with the conclusions that we want to make: do we accept that this budget, as a basis, goes on, that 46 amendments work on it? If we reject such a budget, I guess after that we enter into one even constitutionally problematic situation, that is, a situation that raises new issues, a new dilemma of what happens afterwards. Is that what the presidency has to propose again? So it would be good if the ruling coalition that should realise this budget had one map of the way we think about it further, to know what the next steps are in the event of non-acceptance, or adoption of these principles. I will not repeat what my colleagues have said and the remarks we have. I've even been offered the old rules of procedure... and I've already sent the amendments to this budget that haven't been accepted in the Protocol because of the new Rules of Procedure that says wait for this to pass. But given what kind of heat the amendments were returned to me, I kind of felt like this was expected not to be accepted, even within the administration, which surprised me a little bit. So, all those remarks that could go as remarks in this debate on the principles of the budget, I will reduce them to a very small measure because they will be very clearly reflected in the amendments. I think it is and I would like to remind myself this time because of the principle of just: I think three things that were controversial in relation to what the Council of Ministers, especially what the Presidency later changed, are the issue of refugees, the issue of agriculture, the question of science. It's three controversial things compared to what the Council of Ministers is, I think that... these three areas, like three princips, should be shown in fact and whether we're ready to act the way we've promised each other for a long time. In terms of increasing the amount for refugees, there's no need to speak specifically, because then we're going to enter, we can enter some waters that wouldn't take us anywhere. But I think that in this House it would always be full of willingness to back itself up. And I don't see why anyone would be against it. Two segments concerning agriculture and science, I think they're particularly important as a principle. I'll see what kind of money it is. We had even the right laws, the documents that we brought here as Parliament when it came to the development of agriculture. However, we have never opened a process that would introduce the existence of an interface or a link between BiH institutions and EU agriculture funds, and therefore this figure is as a figure completely insufficient and pointless compared to what we should do here in the country. But this figure opens up a process that is very important and that, if we're late this year, I'm afraid we won't be late for just a year. And thirdly, I would like to remind you of this opportunity, especially since our mouths are full of European integration, the EU and so on. So if we put refugees on one side, which is purely our concern, then the issue of support for agriculture and science is a matter of principle and many other things that are missing today, to which we have observations, they may in some way be put aside at this stage because we are making a serious breakthrough in relation to agriculture and science. Just to remind you, it certainly is, even if we don't know how many EU countries there are, we could see it in the newspaper, 25 January in Brussels was the main news that Montenegro joined the European Research Programme FP7. The FP7 programme is the programme that brings the largest item in the EU budget after agriculture. Let me also tell you that if I remind you here and why I think it is important that this item for science stands in the budget, because with such a sentence for science we could get independently on these processes politically that are largely rounding us up, we could finally give an order to the executive government to take on one of these items in the braver steps budget and 47 necessary steps towards the seventh EU research programme called FP7, because this programme is literally weighing 55 billion euros. So, Montenegro, why was that news? The news from Brussels was like this: Montenegro joined a 55 billion-euro programme at the annual level, and only BiH remained. This has nothing to do with police reform, constitutional reform and everything. This segment has something to do with what's called common sense. By the way, Turkey signed the agreement with the EU and draws money from the FP7 because it has observer status, or to observe whether to take it or not. So, this programme has now been applied to this programme with the EU to sign these contracts, believe it or not, Switzerland. A Swiss who certainly has no problem with finance, when it comes to scientific research, but wants to be included in one such item. So this budget and this science item that's being introduced here means one sign that we're getting serious. And finally, when I mentioned Switzerland and Turkey, the only missing country, which has already registered, is Israel that will join the FP7 and we are not. So, I have no intention of talking about the observations of another species. I'll be very passionate to defend the applications of another species when we get to the amendment phase, if we can get to it in one reasonable time. Especially, a team more, which I already have ready-made amendments but I wouldn't want to spread the atmosphere right now. With the reduction of gross wages, the cost of employees, travel expenses, agreed necessary and other terms, there are still room for some other things that we are missing, which can be solved in the amendment phase. I know this sounds a little ironic, maybe paradoxical. Some can interpret it in different ways, but in choosing between two evils, accepting principles and not accepting principles, I would choose less evil. And this budget is far from what we need, but I hope we can talk about it in the amendment phase more. And that's why I wanted to mention in principle the essential three items that are important to us, when tomorrow we decide on the budget, naturally, given the amendments that we're going to apply. But once again I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, to try to tell us before the vote what constitutionally means not to pass the budget today at the first stage or to ask Bog to pass, so you don't have to answer that question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15823	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jašarević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15824	What I failed to say for the first time, so under cover... some replicas to say here. It is clear to all of us that the presidency would be a full capacity proposer, it would have to have a financial sector equal to the finance ministry. I dare say here in front of the finance minister that the Ministry of Finance does not have the necessary capacity for what it should do in the framework of BiH's institutions. Those who have made the budget, and here I know a lot of people who are demigrant with the budget, know that there are a lot more problems in the billions and 100 million than in the 30s. Those of you who have the capacity would never get it from that surplus from Central Bank and I don't know what it's from. We would all enter that structure that Professor Lagumdžija was now talking about and see if they were exactly planned wages, whether the costs were, and if we had the strength to do so, if they had the services that would have prepared them, then the Bureau's proposals would be accepted today as starting material. 48 And, here in the end, why does SDA suggest this? Not because he's happy, which he can suggest, but the SDA hasn't voted anywhere so he has to go back now. It is the most neutral in this procedure so far and offers to everyone that some possible exit that resembles that of the Wine and Cancer Act, reminds the Law on Higher Education, about sport when it has been brought together for days and months. And so this is to conclude, by keeping the basic principles of procedure, to try to develop trust between us that, until the final proposal, all of these goals that have been discussed here are nevertheless being reached. So it gives the opportunity to achieve goals, and to avoid that trap, what happens if principles are rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15825	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15826	Here's a proposal I've heard, which is that the Finance Commission is carrying out some additional consultations and talks with the controversial ministries. So that's how the term was, with the controversial ministries. Look, so there are no controversial ministries. I guess they don't exist. The Council of Ministers...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15827	It says "resorni."
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15828	Here, I'll take it. Here, let's do it with the rest of the departments. It's not an accent on what's controversial. It's on this other part of what I'm saying. So, the Finance and Budget Commission should now agree something with the ministries that once the Council of Ministers agreed and proposed as a Budget Proposal, which the Bureau did not accept. Now the commission would now reconciling something that the presidency has not accepted for the first time, and I think this is a waste of time. For me, it's not a disputed Council of Ministers. People have been struggling with this, and everyone else's work has been diminished, everyone else. So everyone else tried to belittle, or dispute their Budget Proposal, and they did, of course. We have a completely different proposal because he didn't see the light of day. I don't see the answer to this. So I see a solution that all: not the resolute ministries, but the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and all those who can contribute to a table and come up with a draft budget that will be here before we sit down with parliamentary support. This variant, therefore, is not for this reason, because it does not guarantee the passing of the budget at all any more than this variant that only the Presidency has proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15829	Thank you. 49 Since there are no more applications for discussion, I would ask Minister Vrankić to refer to the discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15830	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15831	Yeah, there was a debate about the conclusion you got on the bench. If you need anything else to say about that conclusion? Dear Ambassador Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15832	So SDA suggested these two conclusions. I'd just like to make a correction, or it's up 685 or it's down 1.196,000,000. So it can't be like this! Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15835	I would also ask the minister to look back at this conclusion. I will not conclude the debate after the Minister's hearing, we can discuss it again, and then we will conclude the debate and move on to the next item of the agenda. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15836	Thank you very much, thank you for all the debates, suggestions, discussions, criticisms. In fact, it's our assignment here. One more thing, let me tell you before I look back at this, there's no side here. We're all on one side. And I mean, and I'm asking us to act that way because if we act that way, we have the only stand to adopt the budget. Every other variant, I'm just one, or here I'd say the initiator, or by function means the ministry that runs the budget, it gets the last point here with the raise of hands in Parliament, and all of it has previously had in 50 plans and programmes that we adopt and they are implemented through the budget and then it results in these particular figures. Here one big question has been raised for me because I have heard several times and requests that the minister plead to say with black and white technology, yes or no. I can answer that if I get a clear line between the profession and the politics, because, in fact, I speak as a minister by profession, and the policy is incorporated in the profession, and I say to Parliament that it does not speak politically, I think, at the very least, it is distasteful. It is where policies must be implemented in such a way, to make a solution. The constitutional basis, I explained, is absolutely not controversial. But they're also not disputed principles, especially when we're talking about procedures. I, here, have a fresh one so I can easily remind you, seven or eight days ago I started an initiative for the 2009 Budget, according to procedures. You have already, who you are possibly in the function of budget users, received our memo on how and what to do. So we started the procedure and we're doing this job, and I don't want to do it at any point, and at first I said that the Presidency has constitutional authority to propose a budget; so I guess that's just how it could be done there wouldn't be any of these principles, there wouldn't be plans, programs, frameworks, etc. to reach the final goal. Although I personally consider that the Presidency's intervention was not an expert but a political nature, and it is not at all a figure that we should diverge and not adopt the budget, as responsible people, in particular I think Bajazit has given quality reasons on both the Commission and the committees, and I think that we must look for solutions on this background, and in particular we must look for Parliament, because you are also a profession and a policy that must be included here. There is only one question for me that can also be discussed, i.e. the only principle that can be discussed whether or not it is real. It's a bit of an imaginary thing. It's realistic what you think is real. What's realistic for someone else is not realistic, if we have established in procedures that we need to ensure the normal functioning of a specific budget user, and according to his program, which we all adopted. So, from the Council of Ministers or no matter who adopts his plans, besides this Parliament, then I must secure his full capacity. And now we're in a position to say it's not real. Why? Because we have savings. We're last year, here we still don't know, it's hypothetical but, since we're in the profession, we're in pursuit of execution. We have already put 34 million marks from 2007 into this budget; 61 million marks have been saved from 2003 to 2007. It was passed on, it wasn't spent, and now we're going back to that question someone was saying, I don't know a colleague Bešlagić or Križanović, I don't know who said, there's no saving as a basic goal. Well, there's saving: 100 million marks are saved. So there's no consumption, and that's the difference between us and the entities. We are the budget of the BiH institutions, so to ensure that, the administrative part that must be in place, means the economy and the development of all of it, means in one such way, through that budget of the institutions, we provide and secure everything we need, and the entities have, so let me just say to the social community and that someone else gives them one budget -- they're getting up in two months, they're 11 and 12 final years, they spend it because there are so many demands in our system by all categories, from economy to social, that in two months they can spend the whole budget, there's so many needs. And because of that, in such a way, I think that we played a very important role, and that's what the fiscal council and profession question is now, so someone was talking to the IMF, that's why. fiscal balances and macroeconomic sustainability. 51 Everything the entities didn't appreciate, all those who broke through their consumption that has very negative effects on the inflation that we're talking about in this country, and no one mentions these factors. In fact, through this savings, we have eased that deficit that created lower levels of government, if I may say so. Our savings, if we had to agree that we had to secure a surplus or that we had to secure a balance, with one of us having to cut expenditures against incomes, I believe that we wouldn't agree much harder than this, but here's what we're agreeing here today. But precisely because of this fact that we haven't spent from certain circumstances – so here in four, three and a half years – 100 million marks, that's that saving, and that's what gave us the balance that we could hold ourselves in... the macroeconomic indicators that they had to be. The savings were made for three reasons. The first is that we need to achieve employment by document and by law adopted here for the next three years. So we're going gradually. We know how the Employment Act is going at the Agency. I have a competition, I said it on the board, I'll say it one more time, from the 7th month last year. It's not finished yet, and I don't have a fiscal sector in the ministry at all. So full, here, help me, half a year and more he's sour, making complaints, begging, I don't know what he's doing. Without the sector, I can't fill it up, and that's why it came to me at the ministry that I didn't spend on wages and then it's a conclusion: there's a surplus, it's not planned, so the audit says. It's normal to write because she sees the Agency for State Services as well as me as a minister, because something's showing up. It's not what you planned, it's not real, etc. Second thing, the Public Procurement Act. There was someone here today mentioning this whole friendship building of ours. Now I asked my colleague when someone asked here, because he was running those procedures, and I'm also going to say this to get out of my taste. I told the RS Prime Minister that I welcome him and support the building he built in Banja Luka, but I also want the same building here. He made a decision that, I don't know what to say, a secret, and it ended record, to congratulate, in seven-eight months. We ended up, moved in, and it seems to me that the Grk were there on 8 or 9 months this summer, we were all, as I recall, and we just needed to, and we secured the funds to move the building. We've called the competitions and then, you've seen, and a little bit of the media, either correctly or incorrectly, however you like, and as anyone sees it, everything seems that we don't move into that building. And in the current position, when the Board of Appeals approved this procurement, I asked my colleagues: What is the next step? We've got to wait 45 days if anyone starts a lawsuit until the lawsuit's over. Gentlemen, when will the lawsuit be over? 2008 somewhere, sure! Here, that's the system, that's those savings. And here one solution must be sought which is broader and as far as I know there was a Law on Public Procurement in this House, did not pass, to at least warn some things. I'm sorry, if I got out of that dialogue a little bit, but I wanted to say that this is the part that's called the balance of the budget that we've achieved, and what I think we still need to know here, which is when it comes to the Single Account. We've had a circumstance this year that has. Entities have an objection to the Single Account because the distribution system is such and it's laid down by the law and we on the Management Board are making additional decisions because we don't have a rule that would settle it with automation and we're very difficult to negotiate, so follow it. The state, in accordance with the budget of the envisaged procedure, takes from the Single Account a priori, as they would say, first of all from the Single Account, on the basis of 1/12, each month divided into working days. It's our income-taking system. The rest remains in the Single Account and, in accordance with the end-use in entities, the Management Board shall decide and make percentages on the allocation. And normally, if more of the state, that less stays with the entities, and they have an opposition to that because less of them remain. 52 Now that the total structure of what's been going on here in the past a few months since we've been working on the budget, we've come into the position that our participation on our proposal has been down from 16.3 to 13.9%, I think 13.9% on the Single Account. So, the state's participation has been reduced, the Single Account arrests. When we look at why this could have happened, it might have been a logic that we've brought a fixed coefficient, so that it's equally treated by both states and entities, but it's not done for a simple reason, because we've said that we're establishing state institutions in the next three years and that we have to provide the necessary resources and therefore we don't enter the percentage, the quota, but according to the Budget, we're dividing the rest. That's why the state isn't involved means in this part that's called even and percentage separation. When we got to these things, when we talked about savings, when we analyzed it a little bit better, we got observations from entities, we saw that we had 100 million marks, and then we said: well, if this is a framework, we can cut it from the Single Account to 13.9 this year for these 100 we put in, which we didn't spend, means we saved 61 plus 34%, and that's why our participation fell to 675 million marks on the Council of Ministers' proposal, but it turns out the problem that when we did, if Bog did, not in the first and second months of this year, then the budget for 2009, then the country's participation will have to go significantly up because there won't be any more of these 100 million. Because I've already taken 34 might be some little or no bit, if we pass the Pay Law, it'll be more missing than it'll be extra. And that's why it has to be known because it's a very important factor in making decisions and understanding, making suggestions on how to solve this. The execution is low. These are just some questions that I wanted to say and this special purpose – there is no special purpose at all. I don't know if there's anything we haven't been following. We've cut them all off, they've all moved on to economic categories, codes. I don't know what budget you have, or maybe something is still called by some kind of inert special purpose, and it's not, it's not a special purpose program. It is our position: there is no specific purpose programme, everything goes through budget users and economic codes. And another explanation. All right, Zorić noticed. These 10, the difference of 10 million marks, in fact when it comes to the Single Account, appeared here to return to the Council of Ministers' proposal, 675, is the actual difference in the budget by 45 million marks because the presidency has increased revenues from the Central Bank, from 50 to 60. And when it comes to it, and it was the Central Bank issue, I need to give the answer that we officially got from the Central Bank that it had 50 million marks. Why is there a difference in these 50 marks? For the simple reason that by 31.3. the Central Bank should bring its final account to the bodies that are in the bank – the Administrative Council, the Committee, as it is called – and that there are three categories there. One is its own development, the provision of funds for development, the provision of reserves by assessment, and the rest, i.e. what remains of the surplus that is a positive result, goes to BiH institutions, goes to the Budget. Every assessment by that date is a factual assessment and in some way forcing the Central Bank to act as we have determined. Because if we say that everything needs to be taken into the budget, she'll probably do it but she'll say: you've disabled me, I don't know, development, you've cut our reserves because we have to have them by standard, etc. So what I'm saying is, officially after these agreements or misunderstandings when it was, I went to the Central Bank, and they officially delivered the information at 12 months with 50 million marks. That's it. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15837	Thank you. Is there a need after this? Dear Ambassador Zorić or someone in a relationship? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15838	Well, I'd only like one thing to be clearer to me. Mr Vrankić answered this in a very nice way, in all our efforts to get to the part of the space in this building, so that MPs and parliamentary committees and clubs have room for work. He's the one who told us that for sure this year won't be. But he also didn't provide funds for the lease. Maybe we could go somewhere for a lease so the commissions and clubs have room. We see that everyone can go on lease except the Parliamentary Assembly. So, it would be good to know if it's going to be in 2009, here's when the real projection for the 2009 budget, whether they're going to leave in 2009 so that at least we're looking for a part of ourselves somewhere else, that we're going to rent so we can come in because we're obviously not going to get into our space this year. We're always promised, here's what's gonna happen as soon as someone leaves your space. I mean, it'd be good to know if it's gonna happen next year, at least? Me, and we don't even have to go anywhere and take care of ourselves, no more club representations, and then it's all clear what the relationship is with the MPs and the ones that are expected to support this budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15839	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović wanted something. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15840	Thank you. I didn't understand that the debate and the conclusions were unique, but here, let me mention that these conclusions that were delivered to us are practically going into the amendment phase. Because what we're getting at here is basically supposed to be an integral part of that second phase. I will, in the name of the Party for BiH, say that we, unfortunately... the promoter, cannot support these conclusions for two reasons. First, what is essentially entering the first stage of the discussion of the principles in the amendment phase, therefore, prejudges what would be in the second step. And secondly, for reasons, I simply can't understand what kind of message we can send, as a country that took sprint to go to the EU, to reduce such modest revenues that, compared to some first step, were increased, or, in relation to the Council of Ministers' latest proposal, increased by 35 million, for items that my colleague Lagumdžija entered in detail and explained, and without any disturbance, here we could hear from the Minister, any general principles, economic categories, balances, balances, macroeconomic aggregates and key economic performances, at least when it comes to the state level. 54 I just want to... remind you of one detail that we need to take care of. The state, through budgets and amounts for the functioning and strengthening of state institutions, capacity building, everything that follows us on the European path, etc., pays the price here of entity spending, i.e. entity budgets. I think we should stop with that practice sometime. This budget and this proposal, and even, that it is bigger does not violate absolutely any total spending frameworks for a country such as BiH at this stage and with everything that follows ahead. So these conclusions are a practical prejudge of the amendment. I just want to say, when the amendment phase comes, according to this proposal to some other proposal, etc., then we can plead and manifest ourselves on the amendments. So it's not time to declare these contents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15841	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15842	So, I don't know about these aggregates, perphoms and stuff, but I get it, here on page 69 that says that we were supposed to hire 279 new employees in January. I don't think we hired two. Therefore, we all know that there are many reserves in this budget. And she didn't give up on what Professor Lagumdžija was talking about, we never gave up on it. We're hinting at conclusion number two exactly that it's going to work that way. So, it will remain for both refugees, for agriculture and science, this means. But they don't have to raise this much pay. We know we're not hiring 950 people. We know we're not spending 80 million on building buildings. We know that well. We can spend all day convincing each other, as they were called, still digging into the trenches of our own attitudes, and we won't achieve anything. So politics is all compromise. At least that's what we've learned these 17 years. He should make that compromise and the SDA has made its way out. I think that's the way to go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15843	Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15844	I really need to explain. Here in the Opinion of Conclusions, the revenue will be reduced to 675 million. And I'm asking you, is this a principle debate, if we're reducing the income item and bringing it to another level? Whether or not we're increasing or reducing, I'm saying it's a matter of the amendment phase, that it's not a matter of conclusions on principles, or a debate on principles. Secondly, and these details that my colleague Bakir was talking about. I want to remind you once again, and we are – as I once mentioned in the debate on this proposal – and we have as a club MPs of the reserve, i.e. we will act amendmentically, in terms of the corrections of certain items, because if nothing else, the item mentioned by the Minister of the Central Bank of 50 million in relation to the proposal that stands here. Whether that amount, the total budget, is going to go 55 amendments to cut by that amount, by that difference, or possibly to find some other source of income, but it can't stand with Central Bank 60. But I'm saying that these are all things that happen in the amendment phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15845	Thank you. Now we're talking about the replicas regarding the conclusion. So there are those who have cracked the lines in relation to the agenda point. We're only talking about conclusions here, so I'm going to let there be more replicas about those conclusions. Dear Ambassador Kalabić, then Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15846	I'm surprised. I expected the party's position on BiH to be positive for the conclusion of the SDA, so it surprised me, if I understood, that you would not support this. But here's the deal. We're not gonna have a dialogue. Let me be clear. We're looking for a debate here on principles and we've made it clear to you why we don't think the principles are fine and I think we've explained it on many occasions today. What we have explained in some ways brings this proposal to order, and with this proposal the conclusion may, in part, stop the reasons why a member of the Bureau is too loud and that we can talk further in the story of the adoption of principles. Because you're moving on to the amendments as if we're in agreement with principles. No, we didn't. We're looking for space to make a precise statement here and get to the budget. We don't need to wrap, and we want to make your position clear about what the final budget will look like. We're not here, neither do I, that this is going to take half a year so we can hide it now, so for the next three months, we'll see what it comes up to. I think it's correct in this debate that we're all clear and that we're not exhausting each other about it. The conclusions are, our views are clear to everyone else. And here's the conclusion, at least it's clear, if nothing else, and let's define ourselves about it. And on the principle: this conclusion corrects those shortcomings in the principles we talked about and what is the reason why we will not vote for principles and that this budget will not go away.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15847	Imported Ambassador Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15848	What Mr Kalabić did not complete is whether they will vote for these principles if this conclusion is adopted, with what I don't know, because, as far as I know, the order of the move is: first we vote on the principles, then all other accompanying conclusions, and I see my colleague Kalabić corrects me that it will not be so. Maybe it's arranged somewhere past this gym, so it won't be like that. Possibly. But we'd better know that. 56 So, to be very clear, on one principle: this at the small door of this conclusion, Mr. Izetbegović, I doubt it would be yours, I cannot believe that this would be your intensity, these are coming out to those who believe that the revenues and expenditures of the state should grow slower than income and expenditure of lower levels of government! Let's get this straight. That's the essence of the whole story. And then we'll wrap it up another way. Please, I am in favour of – I was glad that there was this much income for the state at all – because I thought that in the amendment phase we would be able to reduce and direct some expenditures which are enormously large, that we would reduce them to what is called social, developmental, for starters, the component of the budget. Social and developmental! Social refugees, for example, are developmental agriculture and science, as an example. And there are others. And that's why we've prepared a whole set of amendments because I agree with you that there's a lot of room in wages, contract services and so on, but that doesn't mean that it needs to be reduced, but that means that it should be put into social development. And finally, if we're going to go out with the conclusions, we've been through the amendments for a long time -- I don't even know what year in a row, it even seems to me that we've ever agreed with these amendments, some of us -- which is that funding an increase in the number of employees to adopt the principle of one: funding and increasing the number of employees on one level, when the function takes over, means reducing and, if it were so, that would work out, we would have a budget, say, only if we make entities stronger, and the country weaker, if it's a European trend and ours. Then that's fine, then this approach that the gentlemen of the SNSD and I see this conclusion hinting, okay. So, let me get this straight. So we'll easily get to other things then. So we cannot accept such a conclusion for one simple reason why: a) it opens up new problems, new procedurally vague things like this second conclusion. Please, I've made a mistake, I apologize, Mr. Novaković, I'm really, it says here resolutely, I've been thinking... troubled, I don't know how I am, um... contentious, sorry, controversial. And he really does look like a resilient and controversial guy. So, please, why are you just taking these three ministries? So does that mean no one touches this 35 and 10 million?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15849	Please time, just.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15850	So this is one seemingly technical reason that introduces us into new mud but the principle reason is: we are against reducing the total amount of budget that will mean reducing the state budget, compared to the budgets of lower levels of government in this country. Clear as a day, and I am if I understand my colleague Hadžiahmetović well and she says it in a little bit in Ezopoic language.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15851	Thank you. Now, wait a minute, now we can't trace the conclusions. There's only the honourable MP Novaković's replica, and then I give the word to the minister after he's answered. Here you go. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15852	Well, you see, Mr. Chairman, here we go, not getting into whether we're going to vote for the conclusions first or the bill, so we're going to step down from the procedure -- I'm interested in the technical question. So, will the SNSD support, as far as I understand it, support the budget, which member of the SNSD presidency did not support? I translated it that way. The Bureau member was abstentioned on the budget proposed by the Council of Ministers, and the other two members of the Bureau were against, now, so you will support it. Just, for the record, it's a matter of principle, I guess.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15853	The Honorable Minister Vrankić asked for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15854	Let me just, now that I've come to realize from the debate of the latter that some figures are not well understood – this is me for correctness, and you're making a decision – I think it's good to underline it again. We had no rebalancing as a state institution in 2007, entities had twice. And now that we're monitoring growth, our basic category is the comparison of the 2007 budget. - 2008, when it comes to entities, then they can compare it to what is fundamental, as we say, adopted a year ago at the beginning of 2007, and we can compare it with that ultimate rebalance... at the 12th month. Now, when we get back to the beginning, which, I mean, is correct and I represent it, we've actually had the same increase in 1% (22, 21, 23), which is, I don't think, not controversial. Not to mention who 21 is now like 22, which is 23, so, with our draft budget. I want to make it clear to those who say that the state is not allowed to grow. With a proposal from the Council of Ministers, our growth is 22%. And let's say the entity is 22% average. With what the Presidency has sent, our growth is 29%, so it's bigger than the entity. Here I want simply, because of the decision-making process, and therefore I believe that at first it was a correct proposal from the Council of Ministers with a 22% growth and a 7% single account growth, with 100 million savings being returned to the budget and that this year it must not be a parameter for us to take from the Single Account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15855	Thank you. I hope we've explained this a little bit. Let's talk about the way we're going to work. We've just opened a new series of discussions and replicas. I warn you that according to the new Rules of Procedure: regarding one item of the agenda, there is one discussion and two replicas. We've allowed another replica of the conclusion that was the only conclusion that came here before us, to simplify when we came to the voting stage. And now I'm only going to let those who haven't crossed what I've said, as the way we're going to lead this discussion, mean about the replicas. The Honorable Messenger of Lagumdžija as an incorrect quote or replica has a word. Here you go. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15856	First, the total expenditures increased by 21%, according to the Budget very clearly. So page 3 Table 2: 21%, not 29. I'm talking about the total budget. There's another thing inside that. And if the presidency increased by 45 million something equal to 1.231,000,000, then you can see that the most common mathematics without digitron is about 3.5%. If that's 3.5%, then it can't grow from 21 to 29. So it's too serious a story, so you can throw numbers into the tide like this, and on that basis, you can adopt any conclusions in the fog. It's just not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15857	Dear Ambassador Džaferović had a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15858	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, Budget is of course a very important issue and on this issue is all possible relations in the country, is it, and also here in Parliament, so it is not surprising, and when part of the position has identical views with the opposition on this issue. What can we do now, huh? Or at least they have the same goal, and maybe different motives. I don't know, I haven't been able to bring that question to light, but I'd like to invite all of us to compare a few important facts. First of all, this is important to me, unfortunately we have not received a unanimous proposal from members of the Presidency, it has been reflected here in Parliament and, given the way decisions are made, we see, so it is quite clear. The SDA therefore takes care of it, and I think we all need to make sure that we can't have the budget proposed by the Presidency. It's a clear thing and I would support it right now, if you knew, but we have to look for a way out of this situation. And then the question arises for me, be careful, whether it is better and more useful for this country to look for a way out within certain sizes or wait for time to degrade any other solution because it is not the same, as my colleague Jašarević said, a budget in time and have a few months, to work on the past budget or budget for the past year. 'Cause, look, it's better for me if we do, for example. and these conclusions allow it, to preserve positions when it comes to returnees, when it comes to science, when incentives are at stake with a smaller amount and then spend those funds, and not get some nominally large amount and over time lose what in life and in reality we can make change and improve. I think that's the logic we need to go through and think about it that way. If it's possible to do so within the means available, and it's obvious that it's possible, because there are savings, here, after all, and the minister himself directs us as the man who knows this problem best, then I'm in favour of doing it and doing it as soon as possible. There's only one thing that can be a problem, in my opinion, but I'm going to give an answer or my view and that problem. It is a question of reducing the state's participation in the handling of funds from the Single Account Office for indirect taxation by 2.4%, as far as I realized, if that's the right percentage, compared to last year. And that can be a problem. However, we need to know that the funds are subject to the law. Therefore, the funds are not affected by the practice that is made in one year and it does not necessarily mean that this percentage or that this practice will be something that will bind us to the future, because there is a law that says that what is collected in that account: there is a order of discharge of that account and alimony of certain obligations that BiH has. So, first of all, they're foreign debt, then the state budget. If we need much more funding in the coming year to maintain institutions, this cannot be a precedent for us to catch the state of BiH in the coming year as long as it takes to Alimentate and finance our institutions. Because I don't know what reforms will be, what will happen in this reform process in BiH, and I want this to be known, therefore, that this is not pave the way for any practice that speaks of reducing the country's percentage participation in the handling of funds from the Single Account Office for indirect taxation. And that's why I think this is a noble approach to solving this problem, and that's why the U.S.A. is trying with this proposal to get out of this situation by keeping an eye on it, because last year, we singled out 3-4 million plus 10 million for refugees, with a difficult debate here in the Srebrenica Parliament. I, as far as I know, that money hasn't been spent to this day. Is it better, please, it's not spent here, I know it. Are we better now for both returnees and all of us, after all, in BiH, if we are going to be within existing sizes, because entities have brought their budgets. Maybe this thing was supposed to be stuck here on this problem a lot earlier. Now are we going to go through a few months, so maybe we get nominally here to be 1,230,000,000, but then it doesn't make any sense anymore, because we're not going to spend that 35 million on the returnees. So let's do what I think is a better option. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15859	Thank you. I would ask all the others who have cracked these discussions and replicas not to force me to give my word, to violate the Rules of Procedure, unless you're asking me to vote on breaking that practice at this point in the agenda and then let the debate go, but then perhaps that debate should lead us to expand to the next day. So, I'd like to ask you to try to refrain from further debates, to end this agenda point on this. We have a conclusion, we have a budget, each of us will, when it comes to voting, be determined to give his opinion. If there's any other suggestions, please be my guest, I don't mind. Dear MP, no, no, no, your suggestion is to open the discussion, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15860	No, it's my suggestion to use my business rights. Very short. So Mr. Kalabić asked and said he didn't have and didn't understand what the Party's position was for BiH. That's how I realized, and that's why I answered, very briefly. So today we're discussing principles. And in the discussion of the principles, since it was assessed, at least so I interpret, that there will not be enough support for the adoption of this budget in the first reading, one paper has been proposed. So, as far as this paper is concerned, the BiH Party in the context of a debate on principles – respecting what the minister said... when it went out to explain what it is, as we stand with principles, reality and the rest, etc. – can accept when it comes to this conclusion only what is not realistic at this stage. So that's the 10 million from the Central Bank, because the principle of reality is not fully respected because it's included in the incomes of 10 million of the Central Bank that it doesn't have, so I'm talking about principles. You included 60, or the presidency included 60, the minister has now announced publicly that he has received notice and paper that it is not 60 but 50. The BiH 60 party respects it at this stage of the debate, we absolutely support a 10m-euro cut in revenues because they are not there. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15861	I'm taking a break for 10 minutes. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15862	To our places to continue the debate. My koleginica and fellow MPs, we can proceed with the debate. I don't have any more logs on this agenda and I'm closing the debate on this point. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Proposal for a law on the movement and stay of foreigners and asylum (first reading) On 4 January 2008, the Council of Ministers submitted a proposal for this law to the procedure. We received the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on 24 January. The Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees and Ethics is responsible. We received the opinion of the committee in charge of principles on 4 February. As you have seen, the Commission unanimously adopted the principles in its opinion. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. If there are no reports, I'll conclude the hearing. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Service Act (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15866	So, it's about one thing, so let's not let a colleague get angry, but this is a very unserious proposal, and here I'm talking about the name of the SDA Club, and we agreed so inside the club. We will vote in favour of the emergency procedure in order to have the opportunity to immediately reject it and eliminate it immediately from the parliamentary procedure and I propose to Parliament to accept the emergency procedure, and that after that – when we are, because we will vote immediately on the essence – we will immediately throw it out of the parliamentary procedure by voting against it. Because it's a shame, I mean, Jerko, 270 million marks to ask... for the Budget to go on this election cycle. I don't know what you were really motivated by? I mean, I'd be ashamed to come out with that proposal, believe me. There you go. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15867	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15868	Here, now that we're discussing a request for procedure, the motioner has sent an emergency procedure request, so here I am, given the content, asking the pedator: What is this urgent? Is it going to be an election tomorrow or, is it something, I mean what's urgent, to know how we're going to determine why an emergency procedure is?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15869	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ivanković, as a promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15870	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I thank Mr. Džaferović for his honesty. Democracy gives people the right to stupidity, so here's to see if this law is gonna be stupid or not. That will be decided by MPs at the moment, and voters in some of the next elections. I think the procedure is urgent because here we have a budget, so if the law was passed, then we would have to fix the budget with amendments, and we also have municipal elections and we would have to change that until the municipal elections are called. I propose that the voting on the procedure be held immediately, and not ultimately, as is planned for the other points of the agenda, so that the debate could be opened, and then the vote should be postponed when voting on other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15871	Thank you. Is it Ambassador Kalabić who wanted it or what? You're giving up. If there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to the ninth item of the agenda: Ad. Nine. MP Adem Huskić's request for a discussion of the draft law supplementing the BiH Official Journal Act under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure On 11 February, MP Adem Huskić delivered in the procedure the draft law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of BiH, with a request for a shortened procedure under Article 126. Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, this request is included in the agenda. So we're discussing the same thing about the request, not the subject itself. I'm opening a debate on the request. Here you go. Since there are no reports, I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: Ad. Ten. Proposal for modified conclusions on Information on Unauthorized Production and Transport of Intoxicating Drugs in BiH in 2005-2006, with a tendency for the first six months of 2007
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15875	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to mention a few things before that, so that I, as a man, could plead on this report. I think there's a lot of statistical illogicalness in this report and a lot of things that actually a man can't understand that a report like this can be sent to a higher home to discuss. I'll start with this. ... statistics on naturalised persons in BiH, the report said that in the past period it stated that 18,506 persons were reported, and immediately below, the paragraph said that it cannot be precisely specified how real these people are, because the reports were not arranged. I would ask one question here, which is in itself, which is: Is this number of 18,506 persons included and 869 requests, which, since there are no pages, on page 8, at page 6, where it says that of the nationalities issued by the RS, BiH, 869 requests were received, and 372 items of the file in the Slovenian Ministry of Interior archives there is no documentation. So they're practically destroyed. To get down into the footnote, here, the commission said that this, for example, is how it should be done: it should be done with the Ministry of the Interior. This means that certain documents on citizenship should be burned and that will be the right thing to do in the commission's work. Furthermore, in his report, the commission, when it talks about the Federal Ministry of Interior, literally says that it took 6,371 items, means files, persons who were assigned to BiH citizenship by naturalisation, of which 5,737 from the area of the former SFRY, and 634 items from the file of persons whose origin was outside the former SFRY space, to say immediately below... in point 2, that it excluded 3,207 items of the file from this body, and of which the number 709 items of the file refer to persons outside the former SFRY's premises. So on the same side in two different terms are differences about what more than 100 things talk about, 100 people actually. I'm sorry, people aren't things, whether you're taking away their citizenship or not. 64 Furthermore, I think the commission in this report has made certain failures in the explanation. First, for the sake of the dead, who died, audited their citizenship and placed them in the category where citizenship was taken away, and there in the footnote she indicated that it was people who died. What there is more to debate about these people who died and even consider their position. And in the report where they're talking about confiscation of citizenship, I think there's been a certain failure. It was placed only: all those persons were deprived of citizenship on the basis of Article 41(4) point (c) and the position (6) of the BiH Citizenship Act, which literally stands... that these people are not really related to BiH. In what way it is possible that the members of the commission could have reached the figure only on the basis of the alleged CIPS or that they were published in the "Official List" of certain decisions. From all of this, I believe that this report should be returned to the Commission and that we are looking for precise data that will be properly processed and that it will in the end line agree with the statistical data that are listed, because this is the report in which we have enormous differences in statistical data... in two points, one by the other, I don't think Parliament should adopt and I think that, in fact, as an MP, I would suggest that this report be returned to the Commission in order to statistically process the data and agree and then send them to this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15876	Thank you. Since we have Mr. Vuković's chairman here, and that there is one misunderstanding in the accuracy of the statistics, do you need to explain them? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15877	I thank you, Mr. President, for your fellow MPs. Here, we followed the first comment. The state commission, therefore for the first time, delivered a report in such a systematic manner, seeking to sublime the work of the two-year term behind us. So far, we have had three reports, two of which have already been to the Parliamentary Assembly, and three on the Council of Ministers, also with special indicators for time periods. Here we looked a little bit more at statistical indicators and we didn't want to give them in one transparent part, but we separated them by institutions to see our cooperation with each of the institutions in BiH that worked on granting these citizenships, or in the first degree. The part in which it is said, therefore, on page 5, where we find that the State Commission has come to the conclusion that the number of applications submitted is 20.354, and that the actual number of applications submitted cannot be determined until the total takeover of those cases is complete. Why? Namely, by taking over the writings for these two years of work, the commission met with enormously large records problems and locations of finding these files in various institutions within BiH. For this very reason, we have sent an innumerable number of files, memos to various authorities in BiH, to meet us, as the Law on Citizenship said, and to provide systematic records on the award of naturalised persons. However, we are, therefore, thanks to the House of Representatives, i.e. to the Parliamentary 65th Assembly of BiH, the past conclusions which have been defined that the Ministry of Civil Affairs must form its task force, in order to establish which number of these cases are located in the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the ministry has done its job and provided us with information in December this year that there are still about 12,000 more of these cases in the archives of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. Of the sum of these 12 thousand items, each file should be downloaded, because they are only found in certain registers without a list of adequate documentation. Then in these 12 thousand items we have to figure out which are naturalized, which are not naturalized, which they got this on the basis of the subsequent enrolment, etc. That's exactly why we can't say that we're precisely saying if it's 20 grand, 15, 18 etc. We're looking at those numbers we have in the statistical review. So, that data we really had at our disposal. The section of which says that the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia has taken over 372 files, on page 8, of which 177 files have been found, handed over to the Ministry only local administrations, and that 112 items were destroyed or burned! In this transparent section, we will open a debate at the Council of Ministers. And why did we mention down in the footnote, that is, before the footnote, that this is an example of the record? This is a quality example of the record because for the first time since two years we have struggled with certain institutions we have received a selective and systematic list of all these items with a precise indication of where they are. So our colleagues at the RS Ministry of Interior did not hide the data that 112 items had been destroyed. So it's only now that there's another battle. Why, where are they, based on what acts etc? Therefore, it would be inappropriate for us to be incorrect if we had hidden the information that 112 objects had been destroyed. No, so we consciously showed it here, but we have been commending it as a very correct relationship of cooperation with this committee. In the part where you mentioned table reviews? Table items relating to the lists of deprived nationals, i.e. special lists of persons for whom no legal basis for the seizure of citizenship has been found, we have been working in accordance with the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly, on our report from one year ago, where the conclusion has been delivered that, in our next reporting period, we also provide an overview with all the persons whose nationality has been seized. In light of this fact, we have been reviewing and expanding, so with legal basis for confiscation, i.e. with data on the basis of which people have acquired that citizenship. A real relationship question has also been asked: Do any links have real ties with BiH or not? I would remind you that since 2003, there has been a decision by the Ministry of Civil Affairs of the 10th month, which clearly states that all persons in BiH are obliged to change their personal documents within a certain period, to report their own address. Also, this commission... in its beginning work, as I already said in the first part of the presentation, did not have these files on the table. We had to look for these files, address the competent institutions that issued this. It was found to be a very large number of empty files. So, we've got the case covers without the file. In order to protect the fundamental human rights of the persons we are working on, whose files we are analysing, this commission has taken the decision to open a public ad and invite all those persons to contribute and bring their own documentation to their homes, to see, in fact, on what basis they have acquired that citizenship. In this context, we also appreciated that fact, since the law in Article 41 made it clear that all persons are obliged to comply with the request of the Commission for data and information delivery. While estimating that unaccounted for, those not present in the CIPS, persons who had not changed BiH documents, 66 residences, residences, etc., but for more, long years, the commission made decisions that these persons had no real connection with BiH. So it was simply established in a number of cases that people never even came to BiH, and they owned BiH citizenship. Therefore, it is very realistic to assess the existence of an actual link between the individual categories of persons with BiH, and everything related to the provisions that give us the power to revise not only the moment of citizenship at a time when it is acquired but also the current status of those persons. As a result, it is, in fact, according to the announced ad by the commission, published in all, in "The Official Messengers of BiH", three times in three daily presses in BiH, on the Council of Ministers' website and our discussion with all diplomatic and consular offices around the world: 401 people appeared on our public call, of which 300 personally brought documents and 101 by mail. So these are objective indicators of how many people today live in the area around BiH. So here's to that question, actually this part of the comment, we are therefore open to all your questions. So we looked back at the report itself, especially in the chapters, on our work, on the problems in work, and yet, here came a period, so one paper of course in the Parliamentary Assembly to evaluate it. Here, I'm really at my disposal and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15878	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15879	Well, I thought the president of the commission would stay. Can I ask him a question?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15880	Wait a minute, we're not done arguing. You're sitting down, so there might be more questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15881	Question for Commission President: Did the commission have the latest list that appeared in a daily list of 1,740 foreign citizens four or five days ago? The list was made up by then by General Sakib Mahmuljin, where he wrote the report that these people should be removed from military formations, and therefore, he was probably thinking about respecting the Dayton Agreement, so within 30 days after the agreement that they should leave the BiH area. So, did the commission have that list of 1,740 people, because it's been said around 800-700 all the time, depending on how you came and did you ever see it? It is a question that I want you to give me an answer and will – if you have seen it or if you have not, here I am ready to deliver it to you – so that you take it into consideration in your future work and, of course, as you have checked these citizenships, check it out. Thank you. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15882	Thank you. Is there anyone else who might have a question for the president? Dear Ambassador Huskić: discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15883	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues. I've read very carefully, I mean, as most of you, I believe, this report and I think that regardless of the criticism I can make to the commission, I think the commission did a good job. At the very least, they are, this is the third commission I've been able to track. The question of what they did to these last two. This job is very difficult. It draws great attention to the public and therefore I think that we as Parliament should approach this problem in a responsible way. Thinking and reading this, I have assigned myself a task of whether we as Parliament have done everything that the commission can do. From what it says here, I think we did well, because the commission has a clear legislative framework and can work in accordance with the regulations that we adopted here. That's one thing. Another thing, I didn't find anywhere in the Commission's report that there was any political or other unprincipled pressure on the Commission's work, which makes me very happy and I think it is, so it's good that the commission can work on its own, work by law. What the commission wrote about the need to fix legislative matters, we already had in one of the previous points today, it is the Law on the Movement of Foreigners and Asylum, so it will probably work a lot easier for them in the next period. I'm interested in the following: the Commission said that they have information that 18,500 to 600, I think, requests have been filed! They've solved over 1,000 so far. If they continue at this rate, then it would take them 18 more years to finish the job plus these 12,000. So I don't know when this job's gonna end. And that's what we should be saying, to be our concern, to see how we can help the commission, or to have them propose how to cut those deadlines short so we can finish this job as soon as possible. Our committee has made a report, and since some of the things that are here in the report, in my opinion, the commission has not taken the appropriate way, and I have here two other conclusions that I will read and I would ask them to adopt, because I think they contribute to improving the Commission's conclusions. Namely, what's this about? Here, the commission says it had mostly three criteria to take away citizenship and, it says, is mostly because the largest number of cases of those 561 that were deprived of citizenship refer to people who were not or were not in BiH or have not reported. It would be, I mean, very good to write how many people it is. The largest number is not known how much and then leaves space for speculation and I think it would be useful to know exactly how many of these people are or how many people are taken away by what criteria. So I'll read the conclusions and explain what I'm proposing. Conclusion number one says 68 1. It undertakes the CIPS Directorate to answer questions in good time, i.e. deliver the information requested by the Commission. Namely, here on the side of the 17th report, the commission says: Although Article 41 of point 2 of the Citizenship Act sets out the obligation of all institutions in BiH to give priority answers, to make requests from the state commission, the CIPS Project Implementation Directorate has been deafened and does not supply the requested data in good time. It's the only institution that's called directly and I don't think there's any reason to call it, and I think this conclusion should stand. It means he commits them to cooperate more closely with this committee. That's one conclusion. And secondly, in order to avoid any speculation, this by what is the largest number, I suggest we adopt a conclusion that is: 2. In addition to the name of the person deprived of citizenship, the Commission undertakes to state the basis for the confiscation, i.e. indicate the aggregated data on the number of persons deprived of citizenship, according to which criterion. I don't think that's something that's hard, and I think it would help a lot to understand the whole situation. Here, I've had so much, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15884	Thank you. Is there a need for the President of the Commission to comment further? If not, I would like to ask the Honorable Ambassador Huskić to make a written conclusion, as we will make a statement when it comes to order. Now we move on to... If there's no one else to discuss it, I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda: Ad. 12. Proposal for a resolution on speeding up BiH's EU accession process As you have seen, SDP's MPs along with MPs, Mr. Sefer Halilović, submitted a motion for a resolution from this point on 10 January 2008. At the 20th session, the dom decided to consider the motion for a resolution in the commission. The Joint Commission for European Integration is responsible. I would like to remind you that the same content of the resolution was proposed by delegate Adem Ibrahimpašić in the House of Peoples. The committee responsible submitted the motion for a resolution on 6 February. As you can see, this committee has taken the view that the motion for a resolution is being forwarded to the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly for consideration, a statement, with the conclusion that the position (10) is not in line with the Rules of Procedure. On the occasion of such a position by the Commission, Ambassador Bešlagić, on behalf of the motion for a resolution, submitted an amendment amending the position (10) of the Resolution. You have received the Commission's report and the amendment of MEP Bešlagić. 69 I am opening a debate on this and giving the motionary resolution the opportunity to explain it. Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15886	Thank you. So, on behalf of the promoter of this resolution, I want to say a few sentences. Namely, BiH is lagging behind all the countries in Southeast Europe in terms of EU accession. As we know, only BiH and Serbia represent a lonely island in Southeast Europe, and these are the only two countries that have initialled and have not yet signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We would like to say in this opening statement that the stalemate in the EU integration process is directly related to the standard of citizens in this country, because it is quite certain that foreign investors will not come to BiH, which does not catch a EU connection. We believe that BiH should no longer be the last in Southeast Europe and we want to say and to realize that there are certain issues which are viewed differently by different parties and in different parts of BiH. But we believe when it comes to the EU that there is the interest and desire of all, both peoples and citizens, most of them the same, that everyone wants to join the EU. We now, in the name of the promoter, want to say that we have never been or want to be an opposition to the state and opposition to BiH's entry into the EU. That is why we do not only want to criticise the current government but we also want to offer our willingness to offer certain solutions and certain attitudes that open a completely different perspective of this country. So we want to speed up BiH's EU integration process. This is not required, that is, not only by the proposings of this resolution, but by all the more massive and numerous citizens of this country, NGOs, numerous intellectuals, etc. That is why we are offering this resolution today to the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We believe that accepting this resolution would send a positive message from BiH and the EU. There are really questions where you should express your opinion and where you can hear both questions and opposition and positions. But there are questions for this country where perhaps the line of positions should be abolished – the opposition, where they should create a certain dose of the broad consensus. One such issue is the country's EU accession. On this issue, we need to express a higher degree of political maturity and political responsibility. All the countries that have joined the EU, especially the countries in Southeast Europe, have also adopted such or similar resolutions that have shown readiness to move towards EU integration. As you know, counterpart Selim Bešlagić has tabled an amendment based on a debate held by the Commission, the Joint Commission for European Integration. This amendment is acceptable, but without that amendment, it would not be, in my view, a problem since the adoption of this resolution involves the activation of certain measures, so that no one forbids us if we accept today's resolution to change both the Rules of Procedure and to implement what has been offered in point 10. Here, too, I would like to point out that we want to update and emphasise that the issue of speeding up the process of European integration is, it would be good to see this as one of the most comprehensive development projects in which all the forces of the Bosnian Herzegovina society should be involved. That is why we really need one national consensus of all political actors in BiH. I must say here that this resolution does not contain passwords and findings. Its value for us promoters is that it highlights, among other things, some firm commitment and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, i.e. in this case the House of Representatives if it accepts, and 70 I hope it will, and also gives a number of measures, deadlines and tasks in different sectors. Thus, the resolution itself in its first position stresses that full EU membership is the strategic state policy objective of BiH and the main part of its foreign policy strategy. The resolution, among other things, says it requires all BiH institutions to step up their activities in connection with the completion of reforms that will allow the signing of that agreement. So this is not just a declaration, this is a very clear commitment today, if we adopt this resolution that it is necessary to complete the reforms that the EU expects of us as soon as possible and finally sign the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We also want to say that this resolution foresees that the Council of Ministers of BiH immediately approach a clear definition of the plan for implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which will contain the measures necessary to implement this Agreement, specify exactly the competent authorities and institutions to adopt these measures, highlight the responsibility for their adoption and implementation, and set time limits within which they must be adopted and implemented. The bottom line is, therefore, this proposal is that we do not waste time, that BiH, for it is expected, should soon sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and after the signing of the agreement, I guess we understand what follows after that as an obligation for all the authorities and institutions in BiH. I will not further, of course, explain all these measures since all colleagues are familiar and have received the text of this resolution. I will try to fit in with this time that the Rules of Procedure are scheduled, but in the end, I will say that it is really necessary to start a speedy implementation of reforms in BiH, that BiH should move forward, that we must no longer allow this country to lag behind in the European integration process. Among other things, many people from Europe are telling us, and I will just say: the latest press conference by Oli Ren, who said that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement has been standing for almost a year and that it is waiting for political leaders in BiH to agree. The content, therefore, and the spirit of the resolution's solution should not be formally confirmed today. We should truly accept today, if we are, in order to speed up BiH's path to the EU and, in the coming period, through concrete solutions, concrete procedures, demonstrate readiness and show, therefore, in concrete solutions, that we want BiH to speed up the country's EU accession process. In this sense, the resolution is, or should be, one strong indication that the responsible political factors in this country have no alternative when it comes to BiH's EU accession path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15887	Thank you. Let's take it in a row. So, honourable MP Bahtić, so Alajbegović, Novaković, Huskić, Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15888	Thank you. I am pleased that this resolution came before this parliament today and I am glad that the proposals are from the opposition. And it's good that the position and opposition is on the same path, that our European path, that there is no alternative, and that's good. I would also be glad that these promoters, when we voted for those amendments to the rules if they had voted for amendments to the Rules of Procedure, when we received this Stabilisation Agreement... which says here, that's good, they didn't vote, unfortunately. I hope, in the future, they will have a chance very soon when the laws of the Mostar Declaration for Police Reform come: that the proposings will vote here for the laws and that the more urgently they sign this Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Public TV Service Act, and that it really is concrete in 71 parts here. I hope that's true. I am glad that the public sees it and this is how we should go on a European path because over 75% of BiH's citizens want to be in the EU and NATO. So, there's no NATO here... NATO will be later, so anyway. I see here pointing out – I will personally see what I see between these lines – to include all the forces, should be involved. Apparently, the promoters... into that six to get their representative in there, probably the man wants to take a picture, parade here. Let it enter as far as I'm concerned, so that the law can be passed faster, that we can join the EU faster. I'm direct, concrete, and I see it here between their ranks. It all says, I support all of this, but, gentlemen, here you go, you'll have a very quick opportunity to work here when the laws come. If you don't mind, then let the people see, the public that it's just passwords and phrases, not true will. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15889	Thank you. Dear MP Alajbegović gives up. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15890	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I must say that as far as the Club of the Serbian Democratic Party is concerned, we will support this resolution, although I must be honest, so we will sincerely support it, although I must be honest that I am not sure that this support for Iota will speed up BiH's integration into the EU. In fact, we already have adopted many of these positions in the Proposal for a resolution, adopted through some of the documents we adopted here and obviously did not speed up this process of EU accession with them, so I am not sure, here I am saying that my contribution will mean rapid steps towards the EU. The only thing I would ask the amendmentr to agree with one objection to the amendment. At the end of the amendment, we should add words: from the territory of the whole of BiH. I don't think that should be problematic, and in principle it should be in the spirit of this resolution. So, to finally add the text, this when it says: experts in certain areas, from the territory of the entire BiH. Dot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15891	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15892	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not going to say anything about the text of the resolution because I think that... every normal one will support, or it's difficult to be against this text of the resolution but I'd like to say the following. As a member of the Commission for Defence and Security with other colleagues, about two months ago, we were in Brussels, NATO, and at that time our ambassador to NATO suggested... that it would be good for the 72th Presidency or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to come out with a document that would unequivocally point to our intention to join the NATO Pact, not to target the Partnership for Peace. Meanwhile, the presidency came out with such a document. After I received this SDP resolution, I prepared some kind of amendment, intervention: wherever the EU is mentioned to mention NATO. Since counterpart Živković and fellow Genjac have made a second resolution concerning NATO, I think it would be... cunning to wait for a statement on this resolution and to adopt them together in the package, because I think this one should be adopted, meaning NATO, joining NATO should be before this resolution, because EU practice is mainly to receive into its membership of countries already members of NATO. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15893	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15894	I thank you, Mr. President. Here, I join all those who are in the position that this is a common issue and that here we should not distinguish between the position of the opposition and the position of the opposition and I believe that this resolution is worth every praise to its promoters and initiators and that it is good and perhaps the right time to discuss this issue in some way also in the BiH Parliament. Why? You remember – some were in the last session of Parliament but also those who did not, and now they do, remember that the fundamental initial step that BiH made in reforms was the basis of that joint statement signed by all parliamentary parties – on the existence of consensus on the European future of BiH. We already have this document in Parliament, we do not need to come back now that this is the first document but also the fact that many of these dimensions, these statements today are either forgotten or not, at all, feel neither by content nor by energy in BiH institutions, and it is therefore important that we have one resolution and that this is a common expression of both houses of the BiH Parliament. In particular, it is important that objectively at this time of the situation in institutions and relations and within the parliamentary majority and relations of positions – opposition and relations between institutions, we do not at this time have any integrated serious element which, apart from a stable and perspective Euro-Atlantic future, could be the fundamental motto of the political action of all of us and the place where we can find compromises because clearly there are major differences which are both evident and normal, I would say, in a situation like this. That is why I think that this resolution, along with the one proposed for the NATO alliance, which I also welcome, can in some way be a good initiative to go more seriously and more responsible in the realisation and political programmes, election promises and commitments that we have made to ourselves. And in that sense, she can be supported. I have a concrete supplemental proposal because I really think Serbia is in front of BiH at the moment. Serbia has rejected the agreement. She was offered an agreement. So, at this point, because of our internal issues, we haven't come to a position yet to sign this agreement. We have yet to come and, as an introduction to this situation, the deadlines that we have taken towards the EU after the initialling of 73 agreements, this may be a good, good, introduction to this story, let's see how much we're really prepared for it. The first one will be police reform. But there's one thing missing from this resolution. If it isn't entered, I think this will remain... at the level of declarative, good, I'd say, attempts. We are aware that, even when visiting the European Parliament's delegation, or members of the Committee on the European Parliament, for cooperation with the Southeast European countries, it is said that, after signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the issue of constitutional reform of this country is the highest possible political priority, and that is the position and the EU. I'm not talking about content or solutions here. I am only talking about, nor prejudge, the importance of this issue because if, after the signing and after the implementation of many of the provisions of this Agreement, it is an acquis communautaire – legal property and a number of other things – they in such institutions, compared to,... will not be able to obtain more significant results if... a serious constitutional reform is not introduced in the game in a European way and the following European principles and European expert support. Here, therefore, I think there should be one new item at point 4 or 5 which should essentially say that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is aware of the importance of constitutional reform for BiH after signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement as one of the most important preconditions for speeding up the process. Here, it is, it would be a concrete addition to this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15895	Thank you. I would like to warn the MPs that the amendment can take effect by the end of the debate. Please write what you have said, in addition to this resolution, in writing. I will consider that what you said will be translated into writing form and that we will put it to a vote so that we respect the procedure. If there are no more reported, Honorable MP Bećirović once more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15896	Since here you conclude the debate, in the name of the promoter only a few sentences. So this resolution is not a list of passwords and desires. The resolution offers concrete measures and obligations by certain institutions in BiH in most of its members. And I must say that these dilemmas, too, that, and if we adopt this resolution, there will be no movement on this path -- the acceleration in the EU, that it is a matter first of all to those who decide in BiH institutions and bodies and this Parliament. If we truly honestly accept this resolution, it can contribute partly to making this country move faster towards the EU. So what I'm saying here is that there were three concrete ones, and here they're probably going to be translated into written form into amendments. This proposal by Mr. Novaković to add: across the BiH territory, for us the proposings of this resolution are acceptable. This proposal by Mr. Huskić to add a NATO pact, and that is a good proposal, but we suggest that this time it does not work regardless of what has a lot of connection. The issue of the EU and NATO Pact, however, is not an identical issue since we have not listed countries here that have been in the NATO Pact for decades but are not, for example, in the EU. And this latest proposal by Mr. Raguž is also constructive. We promoters don't mind, eventually, putting it in the text of the resolution, but I must say that this issue is contained in point 2 of this resolution. Namely, I will quote it one more time, so: 74 of all BiH institutions are asked to step up activities related to the completion of reforms that will allow the signing of that agreement. So, one of the obligations that the EU imposes in the coming period is the issue and the adoption of a new BiH Constitution so that, in part, it is contained in both the 2nd and other members, but we do not dispute the possibility of adding, in particular, a new point that the exciplies would read as well as his colleague Raguž suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15897	Thank you. Since there are no more reports, I'm concluding the discussion. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. Appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to bring the text of the Law on the Internal Audit of BiH institutions into line In the first part of the 18th session, on 12 December 2007, we adopted the Law on the Internal Audit of BiH Institutions in the proposed text. At its 11th session, held on 31 January, the people's House adopted this law with certain amendments, so in a different text, which requires the appointment of three members from our home to the Joint Commission in order to bring the same text of the law into line with the Rules of Procedure. The College has proposed, and the Extended College has adopted the appointment of the honourable MP Bahtić, Prodanović and Jukić in this commission. I'm opening an argument about the proposals. If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement on a long-term strategic partnership between the BiH Ministry of Security and the Geneva Centre for Democratic Control of the Armed Forces, (b) Kyoto Protocol of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, Kyoto 11 December 1997, (c) of the Basic Treaty between BiH and the Serbian Orthodox Church.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15900	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, I have a duty to explain to you why the Party for BiH will not support the decision to ratify the basic agreement between BiH and the Serbian Orthodox Church. We absolutely support the needs and reasons of signing the contract, we fully support the text of the contract, but the constitutional and legal basis for making such a decision cannot be supported for the simple reason that, in our opinion, it is not an international contract. There is an absolutely simple way of finding the exact same agreement with the same text further; there is a constitutional basis and there is a law on freedom of faith and the legal position of churches and religious communities. So I had a need to explain why we wouldn't support consent because we'd vote later and then we wouldn't know what it is, what are the reasons why we don't support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15901	Thank you. Dear Member Marković and Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15902	Mr. Chairman, as a member of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I would like to say a few words on these reports and on the ratification of the agreements on the agenda today. We discussed these agreements on the Commission yesterday, and in the Commission's reports, which you have received today, you can see that for these two first agreements the reports are as common as we had until now, which the Commission has confirmed, i.e. gave a positive opinion on ratification, and the agreement between BiH and the Serbian Orthodox Church is a slightly unusual conclusion, i.e. it's just a report on how the vote was going and what finally happened. Yesterday, there were disputes at the Commission that BiH could not conclude an agreement with the Serbian Orthodox Church on the grounds that the Serbian Orthodox Church did not have state status and those who claimed it had come from the opinion that international contracts were only signed between states. We had an explanation and interpretation of representatives of the competent ministry, which I believe was quite competent and responsible, where it was said that BiH must not only sign international agreements with other countries but also with organisations, associations that come from other countries, which are based in another country, therefore not in BiH, and it is an example that the World Bank, for example, is not a state but BiH sign international agreements that regulate certain issues and agreements, as well as with the Serbian Orthodox Church, which has its headquarters in another country, so in Belgrade in the Serbian Patriarchy, BiH can sign an international agreement. And after that interpretation and reasoning by the representatives of the competent ministry, we had the kind of vote we had. And I want to say next. Last year, it was June or July, it seems to me, that in Parliament, we had an agreement between BiH and the Holy See, or the Vatican, and were then asked to propose agreements with the other two religious communities that exist in BiH, and it was said that this would come later for the reason that the Vatican, or the Holy See, had state status and that this would be treated differently. And here, it has passed from June to today almost a year, only now has this agreement come into play and I don't think it is a good message that this parliament today, because of a constituent people in BiH who are very much interested in whether this agreement will be ratified or not for more than one reason, that this Parliament is therefore not ratifying this agreement and that it pleads negatively with it. I think it would be a bad message, that we would produce one situation where we would come to opportunities and circumstances that we simply push each other's spite, and that when 76 come to some other agreements on the agenda and the Commission on Foreign Affairs and Parliament to then force some intrinsics and say: one of us did not support this agreement, and now I think and I am convinced that it is necessary, useful, and that, above all, it is important for BiH and for the constituent peoples living in BiH to support such agreements because this agreement, as well as the one that was with the svet stolica, i.e. the Roman Catholic Church, is over, to say, in regulating these mutual relations and the rights of the religious community in the BiH area, is almost identical, so that I think that today Parliament does not support this agreement and I was a little bit disappointed in the commission of such an approach, but, it is not, it is not, ultimately, the opinion of the Commission on any agreement and this one. Finally today is what we're going to say and vote on this. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15903	Thank you. The following has been registered by Honourable Ambassador Novaković, so Hadžiahmetović, Izetbegović, Zorić, Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15904	Dear Chairman, I'd like some things here to be a little bit of a business interpretation and to clear up. So can we today declare the ratification of this agreement or cannot? Given that this committee has decided not to declare this agreement, namely.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15905	It's not. The commission voted, you have in the second part.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15906	The Commission said it was not to declare this document but to forward it to the House of Representatives for a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15907	And after that?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15908	Therefore, the Commission will not declare itself, but it gives it to the House of Representatives to be declared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15909	And after that?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15910	Please, this conclusion was supported by the Commission, and then the Commission voted on whether the conditions were met. How the conditions can be met if the Commission has decided not to vote. What conditions were then met that the House could discuss ratification, if the Commission in 77 of this first position made it clear, means that it does not want to vote on this agreement. I would ask the President of the Commission to say what conditions have been met. So that's the first thing about this. Second, much harder than this one, and I have to say... I'm neither surprised nor disappointed. So, first of all, I have to correct the esteemed colleague, it's not true that we said then, when we ratified the Agreement with the svet stolica, that we ratify him first because he's with the state, but that these agreements are in progress, so agreeing with certain views and that when it's over, he'll come here on the agenda. That, therefore, was the reason. The Honorable Vice-President has indeed worked very hard to write letters to both the ministry and the Presidency to get this on the agenda, to say today that they will not support it. I will really refrain from the expression that would call this behavior, so I will not use any expression out of respect for my fellow MP. But it's just amazing that we're very much in favour of something that we're going to be against, which is what this deputy chairman's position, or the club, as I understand it, is exactly what we're dealing with here a few months ago. That this agreement is not wanted in Parliament? And I guess it's clear now that it's been done in every way possible to obstruct this agreement. And that it's all true, that we're saying here, that it's in some drawers, that no one wants to take it out. So here they were just, saying that it wasn't like that, how the patriarch complicated it, how I don't know what's not just. And then Minister Halilović of the SBiH signed an agreement. The one we most accused of keeping in his drawer. Now I should apologize to Minister Halilović, because it's obvious that he had the will, but he shouldn't have suggested this for his party. It's the only way I can explain it to myself. How is it possible for the minister to sign all this after all, and then the party says, hey, Mr. Minister, you had no right to do that! I won't talk about the messages of this attitude. I won't talk about what we should do now if last time we had problems with it in a way that we warned that there was even the possibility of not attending Parliament's sessions until this is on the agenda. So, I'm not going to talk about what we're gonna do if we don't take the deal. I don't know what we're gonna do, but I'm sure one thing is I won't be disappointed, because I expected it. I'll be glad it's all that, of course I'm not glad we're not going to ratify it, but I'll be glad that everything we've been saying here has proved true. I would really ask the Party for BiH once again that, as they said, for formal reasons, not essential, formal reasons to act as they have done here many times for formal reasons. And many times we have broken some norms for formal reasons to make something else possible, which is more than these formal reasons. I ask them that this time indeed, here for formal reasons, not to look here for these elements that... we talk about, let's be that, yes, there are none, though I think there are. But I ask them to do so in the spirit of their work here in Parliament and now they do so. Because a deviation from principle is also a principle. You have shown it best as a party in your parliamentary work so far, and I expect you to do so today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15911	Sure, just a little bit. So, the Business Kolegijum decided that everything was done by procedure and by the Rules of Procedure. The opinion of our commission is a positive opinion. It may be unusual, but we have received an unusual opinion several times from various committees, so all the conditions have come to an agreement today. The second deputy chairman, Mr. Belkić, had a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15912	Mr. Novaković, as you were beginning, I thought... I would experience various... labels here, or various insults, not to mention. But here, in the end, you did realize that – I said very precisely that the essence of the contract from word to word absolutely support and for your information it is true that we are also what you said – it is true that we rushed the whole procedure. But we are in the Bureau procedure, you can check it out, warn when a decision was made to change the preamble and how very often it is heard here, and I rarely say it, there is also a voiced member of the Bureau, for your information.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15913	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15914	Here, I had a need to mention also about the work of yesterday's commission and my relationship with this agreement that's on the agenda today. First, I, and here I would like to be denied by others, responsiblely saying that yesterday absolutely no one at the Commission's session mentioned that an agreement with the Serbian Orthodox Church could not be signed. Absolutely no one questioned that. Here it was: Is there an international legal basis for ratification, or such a procedure? So, even the content of the agreement itself has not been discussed at all, fellow Milica. I think I was clear enough yesterday, at least when it comes to this agreement. We heard arguments from the Ministry yesterday, and here's a part of the explanation that I didn't react to yesterday, but here's today I have a need to react, she mentioned colleague Marković mentioning, or associated with the World Bank. Please, the World Bank is by no means like the Serbian Orthodox Church. We are a full member of the World Bank and as a member we use the arrangements of this type and credit agreements etc. The agreements we sign are subject, of course, to the ratification process. So, a completely different association. That the Party for BiH has no objection to this agreement with the Serbian Orthodox Church also tells you that, as you mentioned well, it is a resolute minister who was also authorized to sign the agreement, that is, from the Party for BiH, although he did not do so according to the party's instructions, but in accordance with the work, that is, the duty he performs. However, what Belkić mentioned, which is why we appreciate the very important reason why both the relationship and the SBiH are according to this ratification process of this agreement as it is, it is... it is the legal basis for the end of the procedure and the entry into force of this agreement. And here, when it comes to legal grounds, let me just remind you a little bit. This Treaty is subject, among other things, to the provisions of the Constitution of Article V, paragraph 3 under h) of the Constitution of BiH, which gives the Presidency the authority to coordinate with NGOs. Furthermore, to mention only in combination with Article 15. The Law on Freedom of Faith – which was passed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH – and this 79 law was passed here in the Parliamentary Assembly, where the Parliamentary Assembly gave the Presidency the duties: to conclude agreements with churches and religious communities on issues of common interest for BiH and some, or more churches, or religious communities. It's a finished quote. This law has also been passed to allow contracts of this kind to be concluded as it has been concluded. And we're not talking about content here at all. We're only talking about the preamble to a decision on ratification, or legal basis, for such a decision. So, the SBiH has nothing against this agreement, or even more, I'm going to remind you that it's just the resolution minister from the BiH Party who signed here, but the international and legal basis and association that it's something like that to the World Bank that I really don't think comes into consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15915	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković is a replica and distinguished Member Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15916	You see, dear fellow Members, it is clear to me that the minister did not sign under the authority of the party, that's what I said. And I said you should apologize to the minister, because he signed it, and he didn't ask the party. So I said it and you didn't need to say it again. I want to ask you something else. Would you ratify this agreement if it had written in the preamble - on the basis of Article IV 4 d) that the Parliamentary Assembly was authorised to decide on consent to the ratification of the contract. Namely, my dear colleague, you have voted many times for the constitutional basis on which it said that the Parliamentary Assembly is competent to pass the law. And I have always challenged this constitutional basis and you have always been you, as my colleague Džaferović would say: actively looking at the Constitution. So a little bit, a little bit wider than it says, right? So I'm asking you, would you and your club vote if the preamble had been formulated this way? And will you vote if the Presidency has recommended it this way?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15917	Dear Messenger Marković: Incorrect quote... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15918	First of all, Mrs Hadžiahmetović, I did not say that I said that BiH could sign an agreement with the World Bank as a foreign institution, so that it could also be with the Serbian Orthodox Church, but I said that it was said by a representative of the competent ministry, if you listened to me carefully, and I am leaving, and I will not accept either you or I as MPs that we know better matter about international agreements than the person and person whose working report is international agreements in the competent ministry. I accept that it is entirely true and relevant that he presented yesterday as an explanation and as an explanation. And he said because you came from the Kolegijum, you came, you entered this commission, and you left it and said you were asking the 80-based question of the International Right to Sign the Agreement between BiH and the Serbian Orthodox Church. So then you went to the College, so you came and when you heard that explanation when it was explained, that dilemma, and then you said, "Well, I can't vote for it now, because I think you should sign the first agreement between BiH and Serbia, which will regulate relations between the Serbian Orthodox Church and BiH, which the Ministry person told you is impossible, that only a direct agreement can be signed that regulates certain competences. And don't... go on, at least I wouldn't want to go further in the controversy with you, but yesterday I said on all that discussion and on such a relationship and approach that it really goes beyond the measure of correctness.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15919	Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15920	... in the preamble, it shall be written on the basis of Article II 3.g), Article V 3.h and Article V 3.i) of the Constitution of BiH and on the basis of Article 15. [[The microphone is not turned on for a short time.]] Law on freedom of religion and the legal position of churches and religious communities in BiH, "Official Journal of BiH" No. 504 and Article 37 (1) (i) of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the BiH Presidency, "Official Journal of BiH" No. 25/01 and 35/02, the Bureau held at its session on 5.9.2007, decided to accept the basic agreement between the Serbian Orthodox Church and BiH, absolutely no one would dispute the legal basis of the completion of the procedure for the signed agreement. My kolegica Marković, it is true that yesterday I came to the Foreign Affairs Commission to apologize at the very beginning because at the same time I had a College to attend. And I said that I fully agree with all the decisions made by this committee except to ask the question of the legal basis of the ratification process of the Agreement that was signed. When the college was over, I came back. I mentioned in my discussion earlier that yesterday the Ministry's representative brought into the context of the agreement, i.e. the status of this agreement, as well as the World Bank, to which you called today. I mentioned that in my discussion earlier. But I'm also going to tell you that I don't admit at all that the person from the Ministry who made such an association yesterday brought it into the same context right, and now I'm saying it, because I know that we, we're a full member of the International Financial Institution called the World Bank, and I know what the obligations and the rights of the state that come from full membership in the World Bank, let me know by chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15921	Thank you. Second replica: Ambassador Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15922	I apologize, Chairman, not a replica. A Koleginica of Azra read the preamble. I don't have that preamble on me. When did she read some preamble I didn't have, or is that her proposal for a preamble that she would have voted for if it had been written? I didn't get it. So it's not a replica, is it? 81
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15923	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15924	And if it had been written, would you have voted? That's what you're saying. So why didn't you tell the Minister? So yours, who signed, to change the preamble.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15925	Okay, is that what we are?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15926	I'm looking for a break, on behalf of the club, half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15927	Break, on behalf of the SDS Club, half an hour. [[PAUZA]] ...to work and to honor Ambassador Novaković, do you need to explain the break? If you do not have one, next for the discussion, honourable MP Izetbegović, and Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15929	So, the SDA doesn't see... that there are problems in content as well as in form, is there, this agreement. We don't think BiH can have any problems... and any damage to this. It can only benefit, because in a time of moral failure, the blooming of crime, etc. The religious communities should be part of the forces that will stand up to this and therefore contribute to the establishment of a better society. Therefore, the SDA supports and welcomes the agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15930	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15931	Well, here, I will briefly, also in the name of the club, immediately say that we will support the ratification of this agreement and I must say that, like Mr Izetbegović, these agreements with religious communities, i.e. with confesions, I can only help BiH on all roads. And I was personally convinced that signing and ratifying such agreements could only be a solemn act, not a dispute, and even a harsh word, I would say, we almost came, and without need. These and similar agreements are welcome in BiH, and I will always support them. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15932	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15933	First of all, I would like to say that we are aware in the club that we are not a factor in the decision in the House of Representatives, so we do not have enough MPs to stop this contract or to adopt it. However, I would also like to make it very clear that, as an opposition party club in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, we were expecting an agreement between the ruling parties on this issue. The basic contract between BiH and the Serbian Orthodox Church has long been discussed. It's been a long time. There have been several discussions and within the agendas of each of our sessions on this. And now we have one situation that the Human Rights Minister himself, otherwise from the Party for BiH, which no one has even denied, signed this agreement and referred it to the parliamentary procedure. We hope at the SDP Club that the moment he signed it and referred it to the parliamentary procedure that he was aware and what is the constitutional basis of the contract. I, in the name of the SDP MPs' Club, want to say that in the BiH Parliament, we should no longer create such situations where bad messages are going to BiH citizens from here. We do not need to create messages from here that will further divide in the Bosnian Herzegovina society. We don't have to make or produce these divisions in any way. I have to say the name of the club that we don't want the year 2008 to start the way it went almost all year 2007.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15934	Please, agenda point, ratification of the agreement, please return to the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15935	I'd like you to listen to me, so you'll see it's about the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15936	Too wide.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15937	We don't want to have a situation in 2008 like we did in 2007. The SDP has its own position. That's not controversial. But we want to say here that we can change our approach to problems in BiH and this Parliament at all. We need a really responsible and constructive approach to all issues, including this issue that is now on the agenda. 83 We, among other things, repeat from the SDP, regret that this is not agreed within the parliamentary majority. We are all, here, saying that we want to go to Europe, but this declarative commitment that we want to go to Europe implies that we behave in the way they behave in the EU. We propose that this parliamentary majority too start acting the way the parliamentary majority in EU countries behave.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15938	Please, I'm warning you one more time for the agenda! I'll take your word for it next time.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15939	This specifically means that this parliamentary majority should have brought this issue into line or if there is no parliamentary majority to do what they do in Italy. The SDP therefore has its position, but the SDP will no longer allow anyone within the ruling parties to play the opposition.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15940	I take your word. Sit down! The following came to the discussion, Ambassador Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15941	...it certainly was my last sentence so I end the word when I want to finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15942	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15943	Dear Ambassador Raguž: Replica. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15944	You, Mr. President, have intervened and I welcome that because the debate really did not reflect what the content of the agenda point is, but since the lessons of the parliamentary majority are constantly shared here, we here have a situation that this agreement has come to the table as procedurally institutionally as it should be business. Well, it's not uniform here, so we can, uh, this is democracy and we can think within the parliamentary majority different things about some things. This does not mean that we are in conflict and that it is not legitimate both in European and in any other sense, so that I cannot accept this assessment that this should be constantly pushed into the first plan, but positive message and related to this agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15945	Thank you. 84 Dear Ambassador Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15946	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I'm going to say a few words as chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee. We spent over an hour yesterday in a debate... about this contract, and all the other agreements, which were on our review, and all the other points, we ended up in less than half an hour. I fear that yesterday's debate, within the Foreign Affairs Committee, was as incomplete as today's debate, because neither yesterday nor today has anyone disputed any part of the content of the basic contract between BiH and the Serbian Orthodox Church. I'm deliberately potentiating the name because an international agreement is being used here all the time. The act is the basic contract between BiH and the Serbian Orthodox Church. And, as already said here, two representatives from the two ministries – the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, who, by the way, prepared this contract and whose minister of the name of BiH and signed the contract and representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – claimed yesterday at the meeting of the Committee that BiH as a state, as well as other countries, could sign international contracts or international agreements, if on the other hand it is not a state but an association, an association or anything else. And it wasn't just about the World Bank, but it's literally said that it could be an association, an association, it doesn't have to be on both sides of the states signatories of the contract. On the other hand, I do not see any formal-legal reason that such a contract should have been preceded by an interstate contract between BiH and Serbia, because neither part of it could place a sign of equality between the Serbian Orthodox Church and the Republic of Serbia. A much wider concept is the Serbian Orthodox Church, since it operates beyond Serbia's borders. Although I don't want to probably and can't argue with the right not to support this contract and not vote to give consent to ratification, but obviously these are the reasons of formal-legal nature, but in any case I can't accept that someone is calling for vague conclusions from the Committee on Foreign Affairs that act like that, referring to this first part of which we voted on. In my opinion, he means nothing, because it is a violation of one of the basic tasks, not only of the Committee on Foreign Affairs but of any other working body formed by the Parliamentary Assembly. This was, in some ways, a request to me that the commission had no opinion on something that it would have to have an opinion on – positive or negative. But since it has been so insisted, not only by one member, who has proposed such a conclusion, but by a few, we have also made it clear, but after that we have declared whether, as the Foreign Affairs Committee, we will give a positive or negative opinion on the consent to ratify this basic contract. As you can see, in such a vote, four members were "yes", and four "abstained", without any vote "against". I also want to say as a representative what I did yesterday and on the Committee that I supported ratification, and not only me but also other members of the HDZ Club, and I believe that any further debate is actually incomplete about this and that today would do me great harm if, as the House of Representatives and after us and the House of Peoples, gave us the consent to ratify this contract.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15947	Thank you. If we don't have any more complaints to discuss, I'm closing the debate, and we in the College have agreed that now, given the time, and that we've taken a break at the previous point, we're going straight to the vote if you don't mind. 85 Let's go to the first point: a record from the 20th session of the House of Representatives. Mr Huskić, MP Huskić, was asked to include the results of the vote, i.e. the votes "against" on page 10 of point 15. I hope you all accept this suggestion and I urge the House to prepare for the vote for the record with this correction. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 39, "against" was not, "abstained" was not. I find that we have adopted the record, with this observation. We move to the third item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Features of BiH (second reading). Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 36, "against" was not, "abstained" three; sufficient entity majority. We adopted the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Features of BiH. We move to the fourth point: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Transport on the Roads of BiH (second reading). Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 33, "against" one, "abstained" five; sufficient entity majority. I realize we've passed this law. We move to the fifth item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2008 (first reading). Since business is not stated in which way the conclusions need to be voted, I ask the House to declare: will we first vote on the conclusion proposed by the honourable MP Izetbegović, and then declare on the bill's proposal? Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! We're voting on whether we're going to make a statement first on the conclusion and then on the budget. I'm asking Dom to let me finish this agenda that way. Please, since I wasn't clear enough, I'm asking the House again: are we going to make a statement first on the conclusion and then on the law. Please prepare to vote. I told you, Reverend Lagumdžija, that it was not settled in business. Anything that has not been settled in business, we in the College have agreed to ask the House. Since we are in the voting phase, and given that these things will be dealt with by the Rules of Procedure by our group, I think it will solve this issue as well. If you have anything else, go ahead. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15948	... always voted first on the law and then on the conclusions. [[no microphone turned on]] So if you wish, if you claim that business is not settled, so that we do not enter unnecessary debate, then put it to the vote whether we agree to vote, no, no, no, a moment. No, he's asking us to make a point about seeing the conclusion of the law first, and that's the opposite of customs. So if you want to vote on it, then we need to make sure that we're in favour of voting on the law first and the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15949	Thank you. I understand, just a little bit, I understand your desire to help us. It's not true that it's common. Here in Parliament, we haven't done this before. We've done it one way or the other. This business is not settled and I invite you, please, to prepare for the vote as I have suggested. Please prepare. You can vote now! "For" 28, "against" seven, "abstained" four. We decided to vote first on Mr Izetbegović's conclusion. Please prepare to vote. We're voting on a conclusion. _________(?) A conclusion or a law? The conclusion, i.e. which is under 1 and 2. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15954	As always, I don't talk much. Dear President, colleagues and fellow representatives, distinguished guests, we in BiH have a very large number of commissioners who act and use very large powers with only 10, possibly up to 20% support of the electoral body. I don't think it's easy for these people to conduct their policies with such little support from the electoral body. Or, we have an example of the RS, where we recently had elections where the president took office with 15% of the support from the total electoral body and certainly it is not easy for him to conduct a policy with such little support. This law aimed at introducing a mandatory vote to encourage as many people as possible to go to the polls, to encourage the development of democracy, to encourage our voters to decide their future, to go to elections and create their future. Similarly, we have a similar mandatory vote somewhere in about 32 countries in the world. Some of them are Australia, Belgium. They apply sanctions for non-election, essentially charging fines or denying certain rights to voters unless they have gone to the elections. Well, let's say for a figure, you have a 250-euro sentence or in Australia it's slightly smaller. I suggested that an appropriate situation in BiH, the economic situation in which our citizens are located, so that penalties would not be appropriate but to ensure the cost of the voters because they must in some way book that day, must go to the polling post, wait, and perhaps they could do some other work and produce some revenue. And I think motivation over punishment will give far greater effects. Money is mentioned as a problem, so it can't be financed. I don't think that's a valid finding because if we take the external trade deficit of BiH, which in the past year was a record 7.5, about 7.5 billion marks, it means only 2% if we cut our deficit, we could essentially finance this kind of mandatory vote. And I think reducing the deficit is not a problem at all, because we're bringing here all these regulations that we can handle without a problem, and those money's going to be 89.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15955	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15956	returned to the citizens, returned to the citizens of this country to cover the cost of going to the elections. If we're in a state of 7.5 billion marks...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15957	Wait a minute, please. I must provide an MP with the opportunity to explain his request whether or not we have the will to listen to it, but I ask you to treat each MP with a collegiate treatment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15958	Here, I can see that colleagues are not interested that this country loses 7.5 billion marks through the deficit. It's probably why she's losing it, too, because someone's honor with exceptions, someone's interested in it, probably, would be reduced.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15959	Please return to your reasons regarding your law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15960	Thank you. I think we can reduce the donation of money to some other citizens of this country through an external trade deficit and provide funds to cover the costs of our citizens who go to elections. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15961	Thank you. If it's gone? Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15962	My colleagues and colleagues...... Election law. Indeed, I'm sorry that one of these proposals didn't come to the Interresor Working Group first, so we're seriously evaluating it there because it's obvious that it's, under the circumstances, a serious proposal. I, Mr. Lijanović, once again, apologize for speaking to you so directly, yes, but I'm still wondering, are you seriously thinking or are you screwing us all up, because this really sounds amazing to me, I think. I can't, I can't do it, and that's why I let myself talk about this little como. Is there a country in the world that pays the man who goes to the polls? Is there a country in the world, tell us? Is that what I mean? I call on Parliament to make this, to reject this. Sick, so it doesn't make any sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15963	Wait a minute. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Novaković is first, then Halilović, Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15964	I understand, I really don't understand what irritated him so much. In fact, I don't think the better social programme has been here long ago. Families with lots of voters... Dear Ambassador Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15966	I didn't mean to discuss it at all because I'm going to try to discuss it as little as possible, because I think it's free to talk here. I'll go back to that one of my own, that one of my proposals, that is, not mine, but... The National Club, the SDP MP's club on... the work of the Public TV Service and TV transmissions of these sessions of Parliament. And I think it's a waste of time here to say anything, when you mostly know all that between yourselves. You can't make a deal and then the public's off and you're free to talk. But about this, there's something I want to say about this problem. Regardless of the attempt to do this, this one, to present this proposal to Mr Lijanovic for some funny programme, the problem of not having voters in the elections is a big problem and this parliament will sooner or later have to face him and face him and especially those... who represent the ruling coalition, because there should be little and – and, the government should have what is called, the office this is the legality, the legitimacy by the laws that you have passed – but should have little morals in this whole story, so with 15% rule, with 15% of the votes won take 100% of the power or, with 20% of the votes won, take 100% of the authorities. Now we can use math to balance it one way or another. So this issue remains before this parliament. We'll face it sooner or later. I know in advance what the results of the vote will be but we must... and we should say that what Mr. Džaferović, perhaps this would be more of a replica to him, says, is this a serious or unserious proposal and it is almost amazing that the state is now paying to go to elections, that it is not possible. My question here is everyone here: Do the parties pay for the date, do the parties buy votes and do the parties pay for the election? About that, about that one! It will be an opportunity to discuss this seriously, and I am sorry that today is one proposal, which should have been heard and finally expressed its position, in this way welcomed in Parliament but the problem of failing to vote, the problem of engineering, the problem of buying votes – remains the problem that we will face in Parliament either... in the public. Thank you. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15967	Dear Ambassador Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15968	For me, this is also an unserious proposal. As chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, I don't think the state has that much money to pay, and apparently the colleagues representing this think that those who go out to vote for them - the opposition - is their only chance. When your voters... and so far pay. Here you go, so pay up.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15969	Okay. No one else? Dear Ambassador Ivanković has a comprehensive replica as a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15970	I just wanted to replicate on the subject of money. So we have two parts in this law. One is a mandatory vote – so, it has old democracies and in them, even 50 years old, this law – continues to apply. That tells us something, and that's 32 countries that use it. The second part of handling costs, when we now enter the dilemma: Should our citizens be punished with 100 marks for not going to the polls or paying them? When we compare those two, I always choose to pay them expenses. And if there's money, that's what the deficit tells us. So it's not a dilemma. We only reduce 2% of the deficit through which we give money to some other citizens, some other countries, and yet I respect... suggestions all. The vote will show who supports this and who doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15971	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I call upon the House to plead on the bill. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" five, "against" 25, "abstained" nine; there is no general majority. I realize this law didn't pass. We move to the ninth item of the agenda of MP Adem Huskić's request to discuss the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on "The Official Messenger of BiH" under a shortened procedure. We're voting on a request for procedure 126. Rules of Procedure. Shorty, yes. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 25, "against" eight, "abstained" five; an insufficient entity majority. We didn't agree in the College. We're going to vote in the second round. 92 Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 26, "against" eight, "abstained" five; there was, there was no, there was no meaning of negative... enough from the entity. It means he's passed the request for a 126 member of the Rules of Procedure. We move to the 10th point of the agenda of the 2005-2006 proposal for modified conclusions regarding the Information on Unauthorized Production and Transport of Intoxicating Drugs in BiH, with a tendency for the first six months of 2007. Glasm just means about these modified conclusions in the package. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 37, "against" was not, "abstained" three; sufficient entity majority. I realize we've adopted conclusions. We move to the 11th item of the agenda Report of the State Commission for the Review of the Decision on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in BiH for the period from 1.3.2006 to 31.12.2007. Since we had two conclusions in the debate, and that they exclude each other and otherwise the vote on the report, we will put first the conclusion of the honourable MP Ajanović, who proposes to return to the Commission's report. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 14, "against", 13, "abstained" 13; insufficient entity support. We don't have an agreement on this. We're moving on to the second round of voting. I ask the House to prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 15, "against" 14, "abstained" 11; from RS we have 10 "against". This conclusion didn't get through. The conclusion is also made by Mr Adem Huskić. The CIPS Directorate is obliged to answer the question in good time, i.e. provide the information requested by the Commission. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 35, "against" one, "restricted" four. The conclusion was supported. The second conclusion also obliges the Commission to provide, in addition to the names of persons deprived of citizenship, the basis for confiscation, and to provide aggregated data on the number of persons deprived of citizenship according to individual criteria. Please prepare to vote. 93 You can vote now! "For" 23, "against" six, "abstained" seven; an insufficient entity majority. We have no consent in the College. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 23, "against" 10, "restricted" five. This conclusion was not supported. We move to a vote on materials with our commission's report, which includes conclusions. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 30, "against" two, "abstained" seven; with a sufficient entity majority. I find that we have supported the materials in our commission's report. We are moving to the 12th point of the agenda of the Proposal for a resolution on speeding up the process of BiH's accession to EU membership. First, we will vote on this amendment by honourable MP Bešlagić, with the addition he accepted, proposed by the honourable MP Novaković. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 39, "against" was not, "abstained" one. I find that we have adopted this modified amendment. I would ask Reverend Huskić to give up his amendment, given that this NATO resolution will already be on the agenda Wednesday. We will adopt it before the House of Nations even discusses the Resolution on European Integrations so that these two resolutions on the House of Peoples will come at the same time and this request will be respected.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15972	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-13-0.u15973	Thank you. We are now voting on the link between this amendment, which the honourable MP Raguž suggested, which reads: That after point 4 a new point 5 is added, the other points move by one regular number, which reads: the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is fully aware of the importance of the need for constitutional change in BiH that should begin immediately after the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement as one of the most important preconditions for speeding up and full membership in the EU. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 32, "against" three, "abstained", five, with a sufficient entity majority -- I find that this amendment has been adopted. 94 We now move to a vote on resolution, with amendments adopted. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 39, "against" was not, "abstained" was not. I find that we unanimously adopted the Resolution. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to agree on the text of the Law on the Internal Audit of BiH Institutions. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 30, "against" one, "abstained" eight; sufficient entity majority. I understand that we have adopted the appointment of the honourable Members of Bahtić, Prodanović and Jukić in the Joint Commission of both homes. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: Giving consent to ratification: a) Agreement on long-term strategic partnership between the BiH Ministry of Security and the Geneva Centre for Democratic Control of the Armed Forces. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 37, "against" was not, one was "abstained". I understand we've given consent to ratification. We move under: b) Kyoto of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, Kyoto on 11 December 1997. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 39, "against" was not, "abstained" one. I understand we've given consent to ratification. And we move under: c) The basic contract between BiH and the Serbian Orthodox Church. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 26, "against" eight, "abstained", six, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have given consent to ratification. I welcome you all and remind you that the next session will be held at 10.00 p.m. on Wednesday. 95 Thank you, everyone. The session is closed at 19.05.
