ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16933	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 26th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Our regular guests, chairman and members of the BiH presidency, chaired by the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations who expressed interest in attending our meetings and representatives of certain NGOs, were invited to attend the meeting. I thank them for their presence. The session also called on representatives of the Central Election Commission to discuss the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law, representatives of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for considering information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office and representatives of the BiH Attorney's Office for considering the report on the work of the Ombudsman and I warmly welcome all present. I find that 39 MPs attend the session. No Niko has justified their absence. I guess the rest of us will be joining us during the session. You have received a draft agenda with additions and amendments that have been agreed at yesterday's session of the College in the extended composition, and then we will wait until it is divided, but that is, what is agreed on at the College, the Expansive College, where, here it means, while we wait for it to be divided, to tell you, what's from that draft agenda that you've already received is still being inserted. It is: - The proposal for a law on secondary vocational education and training, in the first reading, since yesterday the Constitutional Commission finished its part of the job, so we felt that due to the urgency and the request of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Ministers that this law be put on the agenda today to meet and put it on the agenda, and - Information on the state of security in BiH for 2007, with the Information on the current state of security in BiH, according to the conclusion of the House of 21st session. This point is complemented, it is in the previous agenda, previous sessions said: Information on the current state of security in BiH, now today's agenda point is: Information on the state of security in BiH for 2007, with information on the current state of security in BiH. And we just put the report, or the information, on one step higher. 2 In the meantime we received three requests for an emergency procedure. A request by Azra Hadžiahmetović for two laws: A bill on the independent and supervisory bodies of the BiH police structure and a proposal for a law on the Law on the Coordination of Police Authorities and agencies to support BiH's police structure. After that, we received a request from MP Drago Kalabić that those two laws that are not identical to the same emergency procedure be put on the agenda, the request means. And the request, after that, and the MPs, Mr. Niko Lozančić's first deputy to consider the same names, but not the same laws. And you'll get it bodled on the benches. I hope our professional service in the meantime is copying, where they're lined up the way they came to the Office. I can only give you five minutes to get that new copyed agenda. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I hope you've received a draft agenda. What's sound is what's agreed and compromised on the extended college, and these here are the business requirements for an urgent procedure. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Dear Ambassador Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16935	Mr Chairman, members of the Bureau, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, dear guests, representatives of the Council of Ministers and other institutions, I would like to suggest that today's agenda item, which is in the proposal of Parliament's questions and answers, be taken off the agenda, given that the agenda is large and that the points of today's agenda are important and that this point, most likely, on the basis of previous experiences, will be taken away from us for one two hours and, it seems to me, will not be a big problem to postpone it for someone, is not for someone but for the first next session. And that is why my proposal is that the second point of today's session be removed and re-entered into the regular procedure of the next assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16936	Thank you. We will vote on your proposal with a safe suggestion that in writing today, whoever prepared the questions, can be asked. Right? Do you agree? It means that whoever prepared the written question can direct it if your request goes through to remove the questions of the MP. Okay. Dear Ambassador Bećirović, is it? Here you go. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16937	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, media representatives, I would like, when it comes to the agenda, to ask one question and also to propose an addition to this agenda. If there is no possibility for today's session, then certainly, for the next session. On the basis of a proposal from the College of the Representatives of the House of Representatives, a document, an information document of the Council of Europe, entitled ‘Execution of obligations and implementation of a post-accession programme of co-operation’, was submitted to the Foreign Affairs Commission, with a proposal from the Foreign Affairs Commission to assess whether this issue is worthy of being found on the agenda of the House of Representatives itself. The Commission has made this clear and has unanimously proposed that this be on the agenda. Given the importance of this document, I ask, "Why isn't that on the agenda today?" Eventually, therefore, I agree with the same to be sure at the next session of the House of Representatives, if that is not already possible today. And since I've already answered the word, I'd really like to say, so to speak, I'd ask you at the College of the House of Representatives to show a slightly more appropriate attitude towards the representatives of the electronic written media. The journalists last time, it seems to me that it was March 21st, were invited to attend and monitor the work of the House of Representatives, and only in the evening, at 1700, they found out that, not from the College, but from the professional service in the hallway, that there was nothing from that session. I think we should have a little more appropriate attitude towards media representatives, especially those houses that have provided technical conditions for this session to have a direct transmission.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16938	Thank you. As far as your first request is concerned, it is already agreed in the College to attend the next session of the House, so since you agreed, it will be at the next session of the House on the agenda. As for this second, your remarks, I apologize in front of the Kolegijum to all the electronic media who, due to the delay in the appointment of the last session, stayed here waiting for the session to take place, however, as you know, we have failed to find a compromise and as a result we have today's agenda. Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16939	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of NGOs and journalists, I am proposing that no parliamentary issues be removed, as part of the agenda from this session, for several reasons. We are not asking parliamentary questions as MPs for our sake, but they are mostly coming because of citizens who are asking us to ask parliamentary questions here. Because if we accepted this proposal to take it down, then we would put ourselves in a position that these parliamentary issues are irrelevant, that the answers are irrelevant, and it is mainly about the interests of the citizens. No matter how long the parliamentary issues last, they are a very important item of the agenda, and I am proposing that this point remain in this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16940	Thank you. If there are no more reports, I'll conclude the debate on the agenda. We are voting on the request of the honourable MP Okolić to remove parliamentary questions from the agenda, with a note that comes into consideration... Dear Ambassador Okolić, the debate is over.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16941	I'm withdrawing my proposal, you don't have to vote, there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16942	Since we do not have a proposal to amend and supplement the agenda, I find that we have adopted the following 1. The adoption of minutes 23, 24 and 25 of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliamentary questions and answers; 3. A request by MP Azra Hadžiahmetović to consider the proposal for a law on the independent and supervisory bodies of the BiH police structure by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 4. A request by Azra Hadžiahmetović to discuss the proposal for a Law on the Police Authorities Coordination Directorate and agencies to support BiH's police structure by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 5. MP Drago Kalabić's request to discuss the proposal for a law on independent police bodies of BiH's police structure under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 6. MP Drago Kalabić's request to discuss the proposal for a Law on the Police Authorities Coordination Directorate and agencies to support BiH's police structure under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 7. MP Niko Lozančić's request to consider the proposal for a law on the independent and supervisory bodies of the BiH police structure by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. In this case, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, together with the European Rules of Procedure; 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law – Proposers of MPs Milorad Živković, Niko Lozančić and Šefik Džaferović (second reading); 10. Proposal for a law on the movement and stay of foreigners and asylum (second reading); 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Foreign Affairs (second reading); 5 12. Proposal for a Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (second reading); 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of BiH – Proposers of MPs Milorad Živković, Niko Lozančić and Šefik Džaferović (first reading); 14. Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices (first reading); 15 / 15 Proposal for a bill on salaries and fees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Single Parent Number (First Reading); 17. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the ID of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 18. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on residence and residence of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 19. Proposal for a Law on the Fiscal Council of BiH (first reading), 20. Proposal for a law on the Agency for the Control and Security of Forced Disposal of Assets acquired by criminal acts and the management of the seized property – Proposed Members of the SDPBiH Club (first reading); 21. Proposal for a law on secondary vocational education and training (first reading); 22. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents of BiH; 23. Information on the state of security in BiH for 2007, with information on the current state of security in BiH, at the conclusion of the House from the 21st session, has been updated; 24. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2007; 25. Report on the work of the BiH Ombudsman for the period from 1.1.2007 to 31.12.2007; 26. Consideration of the Programme of Measures for the application of the CEFTA Agreement; 27. Giving consent to ratification a) "eSEE" Agenda plus for the development of an information society in South East Europe – SEE 2007. – 2011.b) Agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and other States participating in the Partnership for Peace on the Legal Position of their Forces, Additional Protocol to the Agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and other States participating in the Partnership for Peace on the Legal Position of their Forces and the Further Additional Protocol under the Agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and other States participating in the Partnership for the Legal Position of their Forces. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. Ad. 1. Minutes from the 23rd, 24th and 25th Sessions of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16946	Chairman, for the Council of Ministers, for the Ministry of Justice: Please answer me on the basis of which law, rules, regulations, SDP as heir to the Communist Party has usurped and acquired state property? It is a large property of the former Alliance of Communists, which has taken over the SDP during its aggression against BiH and is now collecting huge funds from the lease. This state property was built and made by the money of all BiH citizens... (Committee, give some parliamentary democracy!)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16947	Please, just a minute. The Council of Ministers is being asked questions, not to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16948	...and now they're being used by a political party. With the fall of the former Yugoslavia, no country or party inherited property, not even the Socialist Party Slobodan Milošević, is the only SDP in BiH. So I suggest that the SDP return to the people people, what's been robbed, and all the goods that have been acquired and considered state property, for example. The Alipasha building in the park across the presidency and everything. I think that would be the moral name of all BiH citizens. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16949	Thank you. I'll read the ones I saw that checked in, although you can sign in electronically. So Bešlagić, Jovičić, Nanić, Sokolović. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16950	It's a very short question. The European Convention on Interborder Co-operation between Territorial Communities and the Government was initialled in 30.4.2004 by BiH. When will he come to ratification in this House? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16951	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16952	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already said and promised since the second session of the House of Representatives, I repeat the same questions: When will the institutions of BiH, founded by this Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers, deliver to me the national structure of employees by name and last name, Janko Janković, Mustafa Mustafić, Jozo Jozić? So I repeat it over and over again, because if we at the state level don't respect the consistency of the people, then what we're talking about at lower levels. I am completely dissatisfied and at several previous sessions, I have said that the only professional service of this House has answered my parliamentary question as I ask. I don't ask any institutions to systematize jobs and it can't be a state secret who sits in a certain workplace, from a maid, a courier, a driver, and I don't underestimate anyone, to the highest legislative home in this country. So, I'm sick of setting it up, but since I'm principled and I'm not giving up, I said, I'm gonna keep asking, until I get it, repeat it, and, I guess, by the end of the term, you'll get answers. So I insist again and ask every state institution to deliver to me once, because it's not a secret who sits there, who works, aunt, uncle, amija, daija or, I don't know, who brought whom and an eclectic example I cited about diplomacy, because it's not possible that entire families are genetically predetermined to work in diplomacy. I ask you to deliver this to me for the sake of the public, for the sake of constitutionality, and then we will go to entity levels, municipal and to the lowest legislative structure of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16953	Thank you. The following questions were answered by distinguished representative Nanić. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16954	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers. I would like to ask a parliamentary question to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees today. BiH's BiH institutions and international obligations for 2008 also adopted Grand for the refugee and displaced persons' return programme of 32m and 500,000 marks. Article 23 of the law provides that funds will be spent through the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and the Return Fund on the basis of approved projects. I ask the question of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees: Is it also at what stage of the programme, and whether the realisation and spending of the funds will be provided in time, since the second quarter of this year has already taken place, that the construction season has begun and given the fact that, due to the lack of preparedness of the ministry and the funds, the funds needed so much to return have not been spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16955	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16956	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, members of the BiH government. I'm asking a question to the Communications Regulatory Agency, the Board of Regulatory Agency, the Director. So on March 27th of this year, I received a letter from a group of employees of the "Electroprivrede HZHB" stating some facts regarding Mr Branislav Božić's membership in the Council of Communications Regulatory Agency. I therefore ask the questions referred to above: 1. Is Mr. Christmas in the conflict of interest in representation and as a member of the Council, as well as the user of the Communications Regulatory Agency as one of the executives of the "Electro-Ecores of HZHB"? 2. What is the compensation for the members of the Council, and what kind of costs does the RAC recognise to the members of the Council and to what amount, and how much have the total monthly income in the RAC been in the last 12 months, in the RAC Council in the last 12 months? 3. Is the cancer a frequency giver of the HZHB Elektroprivreda and how many times? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16957	Thank you. 9 Next, a distinguished representative, Azra Hadžiahmetović, appeared to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16958	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16959	Alajbegović, says Hadžiahmetović, sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16960	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have a brief question to the Council of Ministers and the Directorate for Direct Taxation, which is: To consider the possibility and to answer me the question of the possibility of introducing a differentiated VAT rate for basic life supplies, medicines, school supplies and children's food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16961	Thank you. The next question was asked by the honourable representative Dokić. Dear Representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16962	No, I didn't ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16963	Excuse me, excuse me, excuse me. Dolić, write error.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16964	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have today one parliamentary initiative and one parliamentary question. The parliamentary initiative is the foreign minister of the BiH Council of Ministers Sven Alkalaj to send a protest note to the governments of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia for the illegal alienation of the assets of Agrokomerc d.d. Large Kladuša, shareholders and BiH states and violations of the concession treaty, signed on 29.6.2001. This parliamentary initiative with a detailed explanation is attached, and for this opportunity, for the sake of stenograms and the public, I will say that it comes as an appeal to the institutions of this country to finally do something to protect the remaining assets of the shareholders of the company and the state of BiH in countries that are signatories of the Treaty on the Ex-SFRJ countries' property. Several times in this house, I have conveyed appeals and demands from shareholders and workers of Agromerac to do something to protect their property and property in Belgrade, and in this initiative there are five more large items of "Agrokomerac" property in the Republic of Serbia, which has recently been the subject of final alienation. Unfortunately, the issue is the day when shareholders and this state will lose the Kotjes Business Centre in Belgrade, worth 3m euros. 10 For the 13th of May 2008 the sale of 400 metres of square business space owned by Agro-Comerca Big Kladuma in the Zagrapčanka Business Tower in Zagreb was announced after a preliminary execution of the pre-war debt to the company "Astra Agrimex Sesveda" although this company has so much debt to agrokomerac-Comert and despite the fact that payments between the two countries are regulated by special international regulations and, in the end, despite the signed Treaty on Succession, someone in this country will really have to submit accounts of how many assets of its companies and its citizens have been estranged in the countries of the former SFRY only because we did not have to take what we could and could take to protect... property. The second question is the question of the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees in the Council of Ministers, Mr Safet Halilović: What free legal protection and legal services can BiH citizens use in both entities under current regulations, which regulations are regulated and, if not, is there any intention of doing anything in the free provision of legal services for poor citizens who lose and do not exercise their rights simply because they are unable to pay for expensive legal services of lawyers and notaries in BiH? During the adoption of reform laws in the judiciary, promises were open that BiH citizens of poorer property in expensive legal services of consultants and representation of lawyers would be protected by allowing them to provide some legal services free of charge in the local community. I don't know what it's like with other fellow MPs, but I'm personally faced with a large number of citizens' demands to help them legally because I can't pay lawyers 50, 100 or even more KM for lawsuits, complaints, applications and other legal acts. In my opinion, this issue today is no longer social or legal but is a matter of human rights and that is why I am asking the Minister of Human Rights at the Council of Ministers of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16965	Thank you. The next question was asked by distinguished representative Snježana Rajilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16966	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I have one question. It's addressed to the Council of Ministers. And what's this about? In the past few days, or maybe 20 days, in Republika Srpska, one activity, which is carried out in the border area between the RS and the Federation of BiH, has caused harassment of citizens. What's this about? It's about setting up famous white crosses wrapped in foil with electronic guidance devices, so for days, the press was writing, the citizens were saying, they didn't know what it was about. I therefore ask the following parliamentary question: Who is, that is, who is the institution that has implemented the procedure for flying the Federation of BiH and who has implemented it and who has caused the harassment of the citizens of RS? Which firm got these papers? When was the tender scheduled for this job? Who were the members of the selection of the highest bidder? Who's funding this job and how much is it? Who obtained the consent of RS institutions to this job and does the contractor have it at the time of shooting? Why haven't the local 11 communities been notified of this job? ......... Why is it not requested and not formally familiar with the Office for Geodetic Property Legal Affairs of Republika Srpska about the upcoming shooting? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16967	Thank you. The next one was applied to ask the question by the esteemed representative Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16968	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, I have two brief questions addressed to the Council of Ministers. In fact, at the 20th session, I asked a parliamentary question regarding the work of the State Borders Commission. In response, I was informed that the Commission spent 1,741,000 KM between 2000 and 2007, without doing a job. As far as I am aware, the same commission expired in 7.7.2007, which was not appointed new or that the same extended mandate. I ask the Council of Ministers: When will the new State Border Commission be appointed? And another question, also the Council of Ministers. Given the European Commission's final position on respecting the independence of the Regulatory Agency for Communications and respecting the Law on Communications of BiH, I ask the Council of Ministers: When will it confirm the appointment of the Director of the Regulatory Agency, what is its obligation under the Communication Law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16969	Thank you. The following has been registered by the honourable representative Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16970	Thank you. I have two questions: one question is the Council of Ministers and the Presidency and the other is the sekretarijat of the dom. The question for the Council of Ministers and the Presidency is: What has the Council of Ministers and the Presidency of BiH taken to resolve issues concerning the ownership and protection of BiH's interests and the Adriatic pipeline? The second question or request is to the House Secretariat: 12 I ask the dom sekretarijat to provide me with information on how many times I have not attended meetings of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and were the reasons justified or not? The issue concerns the period from taking office until today. Just a brief explanation. An NGO that has the custom of presenting itself as a supervisor of the work of the authorities in public is providing incorrect information and creating the wrong picture of working in Parliament, here specifically, specifically for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16971	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16972	Mr. Chairman, I have a proposal for an initiative, and that is, since events like this have occurred recently, and this has resulted in this initiative, and to try to remove it in the future, I propose that the Professional Service should make a calendar in the future – of course, according to its opinion and how easy it is for them – to schedule and hold meetings of parliamentary committees and the place of holding these commissions. Reason: In one day at a time or in a short period of time or apart, however you will, several sessions are scheduled, and then the MPs come to us at the beginning of the session and we have a quorum for work but after half an hour, or possibly an hour, they go to the second or third and fourth committees, even, it loses the quorum, the inability to decide, or vote, and, even, it comes to the question and maintenance of that session, or its interruption. In order for that not to happen, I suggest that we try to make some sort of schedule, that when one of the presidents of the commission sets up committees to pre-consult someone who is in charge of running that calendar and the rooms in which it will be held, because we had that too: this room is scheduled, for some reason, of course, I believe that it is a legitimate reason, occupied, then there must be a place elsewhere, in another place where this session will be held, so that, then, previously, it will be consulted that, whether, that term and that room in which this joint session is planned, or some other commission will be free and that it can be calculated as its appointment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16973	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Džaferović next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16974	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I will briefly ask one question of life by a clue from the meeting of the Zenica Municipal Council on 6 March 2008 when the Council discussed the information on the epidemiological situation in the municipality of Zenica. From these conclusions that I have received as 13 MPs at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and who have been asked me to address this home, I suppose there are certain problems. If they do not exist, then I would like to be informed that they do not exist in the functioning of the BiH Veterinary Office, because this document can be concluded, as it is required to amend the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities to form an administrative organisation, the BiH Veterinary Office. We have, therefore, the Office of Veterinary and I would like to get information from that office: Is this office fully established, are there any problems in the work of this office? If there are, then what is it that we need to do in BiH to make it work fully? And particular question: Is there a unique way of controlling animal protection across the country? I would pray, and after that I will continue, of course, with a trail of answers to this question, with the following initiatives. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16975	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Todorović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16976	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I asked the question in the seventh month of last year. I repeat it, and it is about supporting the resolution of the consequences of the operation of the border crossing in Gradišca. The border crossing in Gradišca is located in the city centre and is the cause of serious consequences on the organisation and functioning of life in the city and around the city. Due to the high frequency of the vehicle, the infrastructure in Gradišca is permanently collapsing. The proposal to provide regular revenues in the budget of the municipality for terminal services for the current investment maintenance of traffic and infrastructure, in a function of the border crossing and terminal, in such a way that at least 50% of these revenues are paid directly to the Budžet Municipality of Gradiška. On this proposal, we are bound by the European Charter on the Protection of the Rights of Local Self-Government as well as by strong trends in centralisation of government, especially in the field of fiscal policy, which enables and deprives the local self-government of financial resources. I was looking for it in writing, that's what I'm looking for this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16977	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16978	Dear colleagues and colleagues, BiH is the only country in Europe where you have examples of two schools operating under one roof. And worst of all, the situation is getting worse in this regard. The segregation by ethnic 14 criteria in schools in BiH has become a norm, rather than an exception, on the territory of the whole of BiH. The last sad example is the case from Chaplin. I think for this kind of Bosnian Herzegovina apartheid at the beginning of the new century someone in this country should be held accountable. With such methods of separating the youngest generation of students in this country, we do not prepare this country for the EU, we do not raise these children for peace, for democracy. With such methods, these children are educated and are prepared from the smallest legs for something completely different. It's sad that we're all in this country witnessing that there are parents these days, there are students who have been forced to put on even yellow ribbons. So, after more than half a century, again in Europe we have people putting on yellow ribbons. I think it's a disgrace to the BiH state and all the institutions of this country. So at the shortest, I ask the question and the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Human Rights and Refugees and the Minister of Civil Affairs, each of them from their domain and within their responsibilities to answer my question: What did they specifically do to prevent the segregation of students in BiH? And unlike these questions where we are looking for written answers, which, as a rule, we hardly get any answers, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, I ask that today, at the session, we answer that question, given that the earthquake has been here for days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16979	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jamakosmanović, next.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16980	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I refer my question to the Council of Ministers, which reads: Why has the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities not been signed so far, and when, or when will it be referred to ratification in this House? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16981	Thank you. Let's take it in a row. It means Jašarević, Jukić, Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16982	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I ask the question of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Finance Ministers and Foreign Trade: When will the parliamentary procedure find the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Excises and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act? 15 I don’t have an explanation because, therefore, we all know and talk about it, but please respond orally, since it is a simple answer that can be obtained at today’s session. If he can't, then, of course, in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16983	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16984	Mr. President, representatives of the Council of Ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I will ask the BiH Council of Ministers about a problem that has long been present and concerns a large number of citizens, which are owners of old foreign currency savings in banks whose headquarters is outside BiH. The question is: What is the BiH Council of Ministers doing on the return of old foreign exchange savings to BiH citizens who are still in banks, whose headquarters is outside BiH: the Ljubljanska Banka, the Investment Bank of Belgrade and other banks, if any? It is known that already, 15 years ago, BiH citizens who have had savings, foreign exchange savings in these banks and other banks are not in a position to exercise their property rights, to come into possession of their property. I wonder if what the Council of Ministers and other BiH authorities are doing to resolve this issue and to correct this injustice against a significant number of BiH citizens and to own their property? I think these people need help, and that's where I think about the work of the Ombudusman for human rights, because it's one of the fundamental human rights, so the right to have property. I think the answer is that it is a question of succession that cannot satisfy this category of our citizens and that the state is obliged to address this issue of compensation for damages, i.e. property to its citizens. And that these other issues, such as the issue of relations with the member states of the former Yugoslavia, need to be addressed in a different way and within a certain period. However, citizens ask that this issue be resolved as soon as possible, because we do not forget that the vast majority of the owners of these accounts, this savings, is about old people, people who are already in the seventh, eighth decade of life, and it is not realistic to expect that some long term will be what will satisfy them in solving this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16985	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16986	I have one question. But before I ask the question, you will allow me to correct one inaccuracy that was raised during the question, which is: Mr Bećirović said that nowhere in the world is there that... 16
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16987	I think it's better if we don't get into replicas, then the other MPs will.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16988	This isn't a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16989	Then he'll go the other way, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16990	Okay. I have two questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16991	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16992	The first question is: When will the assimilation of the entire people stop, because it is not only the assimilation of what is happening in one school, there is in the environment, and in other countries in the world schools one, two, and I have worked at a school in the neighbouring Republic of Croatia where four schools are under one roof and I think the bigger problem of this country is the assimilation of one constituent people, but one school in... a local community or in one place.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16993	Who's the question?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16994	Second. What?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16995	Who's the question?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16996	The Council of Ministers, of course. Secondly, I ask for full information from the BiH Presidency on a dual citizenship agreement with Rapubliko Hrvatska. What is the reason for blocking this agreement, and after being introduced to the public, all the necessary procedures have been carried out? I'm asking for the same information from the Foreign Ministry. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16997	Thank you. The next question was asked by the esteemed chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16998	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen... the question is addressed to the Ministry of Security. On last night's BHTV show, I heard that in connection with the visit of the President of the United States of America, Mr Buš, he and the services responsible for his safe stay in Croatia expressed concern about the possibility of sleeping, so-called, in BiH – White al-Qaeda and terrorists. The question is referred to, so to the Council of Ministers, that here today we have this point of the agenda, if it can't be answered, prepare to that point of the agenda, is that correct? If not correct, a request to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Is the denial addressed? If true, how many of these people are there and what does it look like they're leaving BiH? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u16999	The following came to ask the question, honourable MP Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17000	I ask the question to the Council of Ministers: So in the last issue of one week's list, I read an interview with the leader of the Chetnik-based Ravnog movement, which says there are hundreds of members of the police and military structures. I would like the Council of Ministers to provide me with the accuracy of this information by the next session of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17001	Thank you. If there are no more applications for questions, honourable MP Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17002	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I urge the Council of Ministers to speed up the signing and ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, adopted by the UN General Assembly on 13 December 2006. So far, the Convention has been signed by a total of 125 countries, while 18 countries have ratified the document. All the countries in the environment have signed this convention, and Croatia has ratified in its parliament. Thank you. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17003	Thank you. We conclude the debate, that is, this item of the agenda. We're going to the third point, Ad. 3. A request from Azra Hadžiahmetović... We repeat what's clear to everyone. I just want to point out the way we're going to discuss the next six points of the agenda. Namely, the proposal is to open a joint debate on the procedure for two laws of one promoter, if you agree, that the reason for the urgent procedure of one and the other law is not explained, given that we did so last time, that as we did in the event that the request for 127, Mr. Lijanović, the honourable MP was on the agenda. In the same way, so Parliament is determined, we end the debate on this, we move on to the next item of the agenda. When the full agenda of today's session is over, we move to a vote on the request. A request that gets through, then a debate is opened on the law, and then the law is voted on. That's what we did last time. I suggest we keep doing that. If you don't mind, I'm opening a discussion of the request from point three and point four. Here you go. /Shortly Interrupted Recording/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17006	I understand you, Chairman, that these laws are being excluded. So, if one gets a pass, the other doesn't. And that's why I suggest we either discuss everyone or vote now on demands. So let's finish the first two -- we vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17007	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17008	Can I, can I pass all three laws?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17009	You see, it means no.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17010	I mean, all six of them. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17011	Please, just to be clear, if someone wasn't clear... what we wanted. Here, like this. So, we're proposing from the College that the proposings be given the opportunity to address the House in relation to their proposal on both laws. After that, the debate ends. It moves on to the proposal of the second Proposer for both laws, etc. That's how we did it last time he was Mr. Jerka's request. Please, let's finish this session like this. I think we can bring her to an end. When the vote comes and the results of the vote are seen, then what you've been saying comes – the possibilities, if one law votes, that there is no need for others to vote after that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17012	But we can, can we?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17013	We can't right now because we've done it once as I suggested. In front of the promoter, in front of the promoter, is there any need to... Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17014	Here, I'll briefly explain the procedure, which is a request for urgent treatment, whether, although I think it's too high to mention to everyone that police reform is one of the key reform requirements. First, from the position of BiH, the situation in which BiH is located in several areas, so the need for urgent reforms in the security sector and, secondly, to remind you that this is one of the reforms that are among other things and the assumption of signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I think there is one requirement in front of all MPs for one reform that, among other things, BiH should introduce into one process that would speed up a whole set of other reforms. Of course, in some ways reducing and many... our dilemmas about the moderations of reforms in different areas, since the EU, European standards, European rules of play etc. Some frameworks and rules of conduct are also well established. As there is a general consensus of all political parties in BiH for the European pathway, I expect all MPs will have enough understanding for the urgency of reform in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17015	Thank you. If there are no more reports, I'll conclude.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17016	No microphone 20
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17017	Just raise your hand. Feel free to raise your hand. You didn't sign up. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17018	Mr. Chairman, we have two discussions. The first is the debate on the procedure of whether or not...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17019	Oh, no, no, no. It's a matter of procedure. If adopted, a debate on the laws will be opened afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17020	My question: When are we going to vote on it? At the end of everything or after this?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17021	You weren't listening. I've already explained it twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17022	Wait a minute. So now we're just talking about procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17023	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17024	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17025	Is there anyone else? Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17026	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, in order for this law to be declared, it is necessary to obtain the conditions. Conditions can be either because the law is simple or because it is extremely important, and should be simple, not only important. We have before us the law, or two laws, which are the result of three years of activity on these and similar issues. I expected to be in front of the promoter, to explain the urgency of this procedure, to explain to the public what it is that is so simple, in relation to what has been in this law so far. I have been carefully analyzed how possible it was for such a short time, and given the fact that the law has been changed practically in one article compared to 21 of what we had previously, how Mr. Lozančić's law later on, which I will have been told to... agree on, and so this law that counterpart Hadžiahmetović offered. In fact, that simplicity, that difference is that the law, for which one number of us insists that these are laws that are, that hate the existing state. Here is an amendment that practically says, if I understand correctly, that this existing state that remains the same, that this existing state will change once two new laws are passed. And they will adopt after a new constitution is passed. In other words, the existing bill that we have so far, which meant no police reform, is now changing with an amendment that practically means nothing. Since this law is presented as a law that opens the door for us, given that it is a law, I am later sure that we will hear much more about it, it is a law which, practically, should divide us into those who are for European integration or for, as someone said, self-exorcision. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And then we'll talk about this when it's contained in the law, won't we? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17029	Thank you. No more reports. And there is! Dear MP: correction, business intervention? Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović: Business intervention. Here you go. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17030	First, part of the discussion referred to the content of the law, and I just wanted to intervene in terms of returning the discussion to the procedure, so on an emergency procedure request. Secondly, it points me to one contradiction that, a discussion of my colleague Lagumdžija, could be obvious, which is that this is all we've had so far, with only one additional amendment, after three years, to hear afterwards that it's complex matter, that there's no reason for urgency. I would now like to remind you that the proposal referred to in the procedure now with the urgent procedure requirements, in relation to the preliminary proposals, which we already had in the debate, i.e. in the procedure, has been incoproved by the amendment which was also previously in the procedure. For simplicity, that's how I explain the need for urgency of this procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17031	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17032	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17033	Correction! Did you have a correction?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17034	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17035	Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija had a correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17036	Let me be very clear. I have, to repeat, been running this debate past this House for more than three years. And we, last time we had the debate, were having a debate about a commission report, which didn't even start a debate about the very content of these laws. So, this parliament in this session, and even the previous Parliament in full session, has not held a debate on the essence of the law of the police reform domain, which is here before us. And that's why I think putting this kind of law into emergency procedure, take it or leave it, is totally inappropriate, and we'll talk about it if, if, at all, it goes away.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17037	Thank you. Dear MP, second Deputy Mr. Belkić. Correction of an incorrect quote. Here you go. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17038	Here, Mr. Lagumdžija, when you insist... and open this kind of debate, Mr. Lagumdžija,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17039	Please listen a little.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17040	...when you insist and open up this kind of debate, let me remind you. The law was in the first reading of this House. So we had the text of the law in the first reading and saw it here and discussed it with principles and so forth. So he also passed the commission phase. You were right when you said there was a report but it was already a second reading. The BiH Party's amendment is known, starting from the first. ... So it's not about not knowing things.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17041	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17042	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I signed up by electronic means so you can check it out. ... I just want to say two things. This country no longer has time for such procedural outwittings around these laws. It's the position of us as representatives and party to which I belong. The other thing is, it is not true that we and the public and all relevant factors in BiH and the international community do not know what this is about. And we all here need to show responsibility today, aware that in one step, in one bite we can't bite this whole reform, but we can open the process. So, I support the haste procedure and procedure, but I also ask the College, and I think it would be logical to allow us to fully look at where the differences between these three proposed laws are so that we can make a quality determination and get the law today. I think it was the responsibility of each of the proposings per person to point out where the differences are in relation to these three laws, so that everyone can have a clear insight into the law today. I'm afraid the game with the procedure isn't a game with time and it's not a further delay. I personally think we should all test ourselves today about these three laws. One of these three laws today, because of this country and because of its future, should be accepted, and we should engage in this story, not in another story and outwitting, and I therefore believe that we should quickly complete the procedure and allow the declaration and initiation of the process of putting this country on one stable rail, because obviously we do not have the strength ourselves here. Thank you very much. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17043	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17044	Dear Chairman, chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, esteemed guests and fellow MPs and MPs, I must express, in some ways, the satisfaction that these laws have been proposed under this procedure. In fact, when we discussed these laws in the previous phase, there was an impression or it was deliberately a real impression that there was the responsibility of the opposition, and above all the SDS for the fate of these laws, and even in some phases and greater than positions. I hope that this procedure, too, and these proposals for the procedure have shown where the problem is, in fact, the whole point of the problem. So it was not the essence of the problem of whether the laws would go through the commission phase. And if they had passed the commission phase, they would have entered a phase that would follow after voting on the procedure. And that's the phase of the difference... of looking at these issues between the parties that make up the parliamentary majority and who signed the Mostar Declaration. And indeed, if we haven't managed to convince the media, including everyone, that our responsibility – when I say ours, I mean the SDS and the SDS members, in these reforms – does not exist or is far less than the responsibilities of others, then here are the promoters of these reforms, these reform laws, I hope, with these procedures, have succeeded today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17045	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote: Honored President Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17046	Thank you. It's an incorrect quote. These days the demands were extorted and the latest moves that parliamentarians could take after the commission phase had passed the law, that the representative and delegate of the SDS had listened to what the National Assembly whose delegate in the commission had adopted and said to do, the law would come to this parliament and vote on the law. Today, we can get into a situation where we don't vote on the law, we can vote on procedures, not the law, and that's the responsibility of the SDS, and that responsibility cannot be removed from itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17047	Dear Representative Novaković: a response to the correcting of the incorrect quote. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17048	So I must say, there is an impression that someone in the National Assembly gave the post to a delegate from the Serbian Democratic Party. BiH's election law defined the way delegates of the National Assembly for the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been elected, and that one place belongs to the SDS according to the election result. I believe you were in a position to give us that place so we wouldn't give it to you, as we didn't give it to you in the last term. But you weren't in that position, so one place must have had to belong to the SDS, and I think, on the other hand, the responsibility of the delegates is also according to the conclusions of the National Assembly, but it is also according to the position of the party that has delegated it and, of course, the National Assembly confirmed it. So, but then again, I guess here's the whole intentional and conscious thing, again we want to focus, direct some kind of responsibility on that one or two members of the 12 committee. Dear gentlemen, the commission of 12 members has nine from the parliamentary majority and three from the opposition. And these three, of which two, this one wasn't even seen as possible... a member who could do it anyway. So it was normal for him not to be "yes" but these two others seem to be more important than these nine, including ten others. I just wanted to say that you, in this way, have actually shown that, and if it had passed the commission, it would have come to this stage where it's different. Here, I invite you to at least vote to come together to discuss the law. At least you can do that, and then you'll show whether or not you agree on the...text of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17049	Correction of the incorrect, correction of the incorrect quote: the Honorable President Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17050	Thank you. It cannot be called in this House once for the conclusions of the National Assembly, and only when it corresponds to the SDS and, once it is possible to place the position of delegates and the position of the party above the conclusions of the National Assembly, and then for the second time all others who come from RS are bound by any conclusions, decisions, declarations, ratifications and all that happens in the National Assembly. It can't be taken once, it can't be left at will. You have to have a principle. Apparently, the SDS doesn't have a principle. And it's not just the SDS, I'm here to say about all the opposition that was on the board -- you didn't help, you ran away, you didn't let that law come to the vote here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17051	Dear Representative Hadžiahmetović: Correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17052	I may break this idyll a little bit, but I'm glad that colleague Novaković has corrected the wrong allegations himself. At the very beginning, he spoke of not all MPs bearing responsibility here, to show us afterwards how one vote, or one MP, bears the same responsibility as the others do. Thank you very much. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17053	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Križanović. Here you go. Then it's Jerko Ivanković, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17054	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll do it very briefly, because it's a matter of procedure. First of all, I would like to ask colleagues who are trying to appeal, first of all, to the opposition to be aware of the seriousness and importance of this moment for the future of BiH. I'm not going to convince anyone that I feel very aware of this situation and very responsible for this situation but I don't feel at all guilty about the state we've come to with this law. You see, after three years of debate on police reform, today, after a month, for the third time in this house, we are discussing the same topic. After three years, we come by emergency procedure, with three different proposals from these laws, which we seriously question the business provision itself, which says that if the House receives more bills of the same content, the same goal or title, it discusses them one by one, at the top of the proposal. We're making one, by the way, confusion, harassing ourselves as agents, not seeing these suggestions until this morning, and then you have to understand that we can't accept it...... that we'll be so happy to do it this way. That's why I, here in public, protest my protest over the way this is being forced. There was no reason to... at least a month, when a debate on these laws was opened, in one complex atmosphere came up with a rational proposal. So, what are we doing today? We're aware, so that we don't have the agreement here on any proposal, we're going out with three draft laws. Here, we will support, after all, the procedure of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17055	Thank you. Was that in front of the club that you'd support the procedure? And it's not. Have you spent yours? You're not, like, another one, are you? Since the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers first asked for a word, I am giving it to him by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17056	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, honourable ministers, media representatives, esteemed guests, in fact, I think today Parliament can do, and I believe that this will be a good and serious job for BiH. No one will convince anyone today that we have definitely finished this job but, as colleagues say, there is a chance that we can put this country on more stable feet and enter a contractual relationship with the EU. I think that today we should share in Europeans and those who are not. But a serious parliament today is supposed to bring this job to an end. 27 Rigid are business procedures. The procedure per member takes or leaves the assumption that there is a majority. Now we have, therefore, three draft laws of similar or almost identical content. It is good to have a debate, but I think that the way we conduct the debate, and don't mind me, I've been sitting in your benches for a long time, so that the parties that have proposed these annexes, the backbone of the parliamentary majority, should sit down, how long it is now and see which of these proposals, are almost certain that there are exclusive demands here. One is a request that offers amendments that the other will not support, the other is without amendments. Is there a middle line? Is this middle line what the chairman, the vice-president, suggested? Is there anything to do but try to find the parliamentary majority and then it is the logical procedure of a member of the Rules of Procedure. And I beg you, so once again, please, I urge you to try to get to that middle scorer. No one will be particularly pleased after the adoption of these laws, except for the public, which will create a transit point for this country. If reform is 100%, and this is an agreement that maintains power at 30% or 40%, why don't we accept it in the interest of the citizens? So you might think that, when we entered into defense reform, that's when we were looking for an agreement on mobile military property. Ask yourself a question: Would today our representatives in Bucharest have the arguments to seek the status of an intensified dialogue, that in the first phase, a 100% reform would be sought. The defence reform is still not complete, but we are progressing on it. So I ask you today to come out of some, I don't know, strange appetites for all sides, to build a compromise and, if there is a medium solution to these three proposals, you must say from the parliamentary majority what is most acceptable. But that's why it takes a serious break for people to sit down. If you need those you can be... in calling them and telling them. And then you have a session that will be effective and trust me that you will cheer up the BiH public, although unnecessary confusion has been created. I think that any reform, if we work on it, especially, like police reform, will disgust the citizens of this country. So I welcome this way and I understand... in Parliament but I think, before you enter into serious decision making, that you will have to sit down again, analyze all three proposals and know in advance, at least representatives of the parliamentary majority, what is it that will get today's support. If we're all sitting here today, aware that three laws will enter the regular procedure, then it's a waste of time and an even uglier message that we can send to Brussels than the one we've been sending so far. I beg you not to lose your strength, nor your energy, nor your patience. I'm here if I can help but you'll be glad to the citizens of this country if one of these solutions – I don't want to commit myself, it's a parliamentary matter, I appreciate it – gets parliamentary support. It would not be good if today after this session no proposal had parliamentary support but I ask you, therefore, to go through these proposals and see what has the parliamentary majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17057	Thank you. Now we have, first came the Honorable Ambassador Novaković... / Disturbation in the shooting/. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17058	...meaning... Mr. Chairman actually said all the essentials and my answer. So the responsibility exists individually, but the responsibility of the parliamentary majority is something else. 28 We are at first against these laws. Don't ask us to make an obstruction because we're against it. Don't make the obstruction you're in for.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17059	Thank you. The Honorable Ambassador of Lagumdžija had a correction and a replica. The replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17060	First, I would like to thank Mr. Prime Minister, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Špirić for speaking to us. I think it's very good to address Parliament, the more he spoke to the public yesterday, saying he would resign unless this was adopted. It's dramatic enough for him to address this parliament, and it's good that he did. However, what I was further concerned by, after his statement yesterday, this beating in Parliament in which, if I understood correctly, he actually appealed to find a solution that we all wanted,... but he did not want to enter into which of these three solutions is a solution he accepts, if not the Council of Ministers, then at least he, and whether he cares whether any of these three solutions or accepts them all three, so any of them, as far as he's concerned, is fine. I don't think it's okay. Since we have already come to a situation like this that in itself is, I think, the way it is, it is, at the very least, not responding to what is expected of us, which is that the President of the Council of Ministers is still telling us what is the position, even though his, these three proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17061	Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17062	Well, that's what the man was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17063	And maybe the man will wait for all three laws and then say so! We're only here on the first proposal. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17064	You should warn him then not to talk about three solutions but the procedure. But since the man was talking about all three solutions, then... I can't replicate what he didn't say, I didn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17065	You don't call! I say let him decide when to say it. Thank you. The following came to the discussion, Honourable MP Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17066	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I do not think the urgency of police reform is at all questionable, it is asked, in part, the quality and its way. I would just like to remind 29 of the agreement of the ruling six signed on January 3rd last year. Since then, a year and three months have passed and the first point of the programme objectives is, the general goal is to address issues related to the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which includes, under one -- police reform. So it's been a year and three months and the first point of the ruling coalition can't be solved. For this reason, I would suggest a conclusion, which reads: If this session does not adopt the draft law on the independent and supervisory bodies of the BiH police structure and the draft law on the Police Body Coordination Directorate and the BiH Police Structure Support Agency, a decision is made to hold early general elections in 5.10.2008, together with holding municipal elections in BiH. The Constitutional Commission is hereby ordered to draw up the necessary decisions to implement this conclusion. I think it would be correct for the citizens of this country to make it clear: if today's current coalition has no opportunity and the power to resolve the first point of its coalition agreement that, essentially, the mandates of the country's citizens are offered to decide, in a few months, in which way it all needs this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17067	We have a few concerns about your conclusion. First, let's see if it's stale and possible. You must appeal to a member, in which way this congregation can declare new and early elections. And, on the other hand, let's say at which point of the agenda we put the vote on your conclusion. Whether the last item of the agenda or when all the laws are finished and what happens if we do tomorrow, or the day after tomorrow, some new session with the 127th agreed proposal, does that mean that these elections will not be held if the laws are passed? So you have to back it up a little bit so I can put it to the vote at all. Dear Ambassador Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17068	We can draw a conclusion on the Rules of Procedure today. I suggest that this very point we're discussing, the procedure to vote on it, means when and the point of procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17069	At the third point?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17070	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17071	What if it goes through the sixth or seventh points? 30
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17072	Here is the conclusion defined: if any of these laws are passed, then the conclusion of this, practically, has no early choices. But if none of these laws are passed, then this House is making a decision to owe the Constitutional Commission to prepare for us in the coming period all the acts that elections can be held.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17073	It's not in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17074	But we as Dom can put her in charge, and we can. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17075	All right, please give that conclusion... prepare, you'd better prepare it qualityly so I can put it to the vote. If it is not in accordance with the law, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the Constitution, you understand that I will not be able to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17076	I understand that there is a concern of early elections but I don't think it's correct and an office towards the citizens of this country that, in fact, if police reform is not adopted today, it is going into early elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17077	Dear Mr Lijanović, I, as chairman, as MP and business intervention, ask that the conclusion be in accordance with the Constitution, so that I may put him to the vote. I'm not asking anything else of you. Don't pull out any other connotations. Next for discussion, no more reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17078	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17079	Dear Ambassador Dokić, I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17080	...this electronics works so I don't raise my hand very often. Ladies and gentlemen, 31.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17081	The electronics are working. I apologize for interrupting. But when I press it doesn't turn on there some light bulb... so there's a problem with that. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17082	So it still doesn't work. Ladies and gentlemen, I think... that MPs at today's session face a major challenge: will we give BiH a chance to move faster in defining, adopting and accepting a series of new other reforms that we will have to adopt in this Parliament in the EU accession process or will we introduce the country into a major political crisis with, I would say, unspeakable consequences? Let us bear in mind that 42 MPs, including MPs, do not know where the accent is over this, and that the people have chosen us, that they have given us confidence, that we have all sworn and swore to European integration, that we all believe, and even so we speak, that there is a consensus in the people, to all the peoples of BiH, that the most important political task, is the priority political issue of creating conditions for faster EU accession. I won't remind you of what we've been through but here in this situation, I'm afraid we're on the verge of failure. If we go into debate with three variants of the law after that debate, even if it lasted, I'm afraid we'll get a result such that none of these three laws, which are now in circulation, will get the necessary majority. And the message, not only to our public, but to the international public and Brussels, will be very, very ugly. Do I need to remind you that Brussels also realized that the reform that started in 2004, as it began, will not lead us to this path that we are on now, here's only one step we need to take to join him, and that there has been a Mostar Declaration that BiH has accepted the Mostar Declaration by the six party leaders who make up the common parliamentary majority in this parliament, so Brussels has rewarded the agreement. An express paraphrasing Stabilisation and Association Agreement has been initialled and has given the opportunity within a very short period of time to sign the agreement, to open the process, to create conditions for further negotiations on other issues as well as on police structures reform in BiH. Today it is up to us to play this trust or to justify it! It would be very ugly if we played, played that trust. It seems to me that if I didn't go further into the lab, it seems to me that there will be time today, tomorrow, that we will talk a lot about this, I wish I wasn't right, it seems to me that at this point it would be best if we took a break, that the clubs or representatives of the clubs, maybe it's better if the clubs -- that they don't bear the burden of responsibility over what happens today and tomorrow only the presidents of the clubs -- so, the clubs that have proposed three variants of the law to sit down, to talk, to try to get to that solution that will get the parliamentary majority in this House. The work of the MPs is not only when we sit in these benches, our work is when we sit in other rooms, we agree, individually or collectively, and that afterwards we try to get to that variant that we will vote on, which is why we will soon finish the work because the procedure is such, it points us to such an approach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17083	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17084	I thank you, Chairman. I'll do it very briefly. So, in this House, there is a parliamentary majority in this House and it is known who makes up this parliamentary majority. The majority of parliament officials are headed by the SDA with nine MPs, the BiH Party has eight MPs, SNSD seven, HDZ etc. That's, that makes for a parliamentary majority. Therefore, in this regard, on the issue of requests for this procedure and the adoption of these two laws, it is necessary to include,... and MPs from the parliamentary majority according to the number of MPs and I expect, therefore, when it comes to an emergency procedure, that the SDA be included both in this story and in the adoption of this law to include the SDA in this story and to bring these laws in the way the world expects us to, as citizens expect. Therefore, I am convinced, I am convinced that we will take responsibility, that we will pass these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17085	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović: replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17086	So here's when my colleague Kadrić calls me, is it, to get involved in this discussion. So many concessions have been made and so much has leaked between the fingers of the reform. We had ten times as many better suggestions that everyone accepted a year ago or a year ago, or on this, that now no problem is that any of the... three proposed laws, which are almost the same. What if your goal is to sign stabilization and accession, and if you're ready to get down to this extent, then get down to that one more hair. All three laws are almost equal. This part by which the party's proposal for BiH differs from, say, the SNSD is that police reform will continue on the basis of a new constitution if and when it...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17087	We're not talking about laws, we're talking about procedures.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17088	But it also stops further reform if constitutional reform does not occur. As good as it is, it's as bad as it is. So if you were willing to come down to this point... with the essence of the reform, make any of you three, that one step and that's what you're looking for.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17089	Dear Ambassador Remzi has a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17090	So the BiH Party is more dissatisfied than the SDA when it comes to these two laws. But she is also aware that this is one of the conditions for signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. 33 We cannot expect the SDP to support this. The SDP was against everything, it was against the amendment proposal and the additions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, therefore, of course, will be against these two laws. But you can't get the SDA out of this, because by the number of MPs, it's the most responsible for the adoption of these two laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17091	Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović, we'll take it easy.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17092	Here, I just need to remind myself that the bill submitted by the Party for BiH in the procedure in relation to, therefore, somewhat changed, in relation to the previous proposals that were in circulation in the spirit of the declaration signed by the president of the SDA, Mr Tihić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17093	Thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Are all the replicas to the honourable MP Izetbegović, to him or to whom? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17096	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17097	The discussion is yours? Is it your replica or your discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17098	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17099	Dear Ambassador Ahmetović: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17100	The Party of Democratic Action has not escaped from this story and we have proposed amendments in the procedure, as ordered by the Council of Ministers, to participate actively. Unfortunately, therefore, there was no willingness for these amendments to be accepted and these amendments, so 34 in a certain way sought certain answers in which we could take our stand. And these answers are: Can the proposed laws, or police reform, be caught in a problem called corruption, a problem called the arrest of war criminals? At the beginning of today's session, someone mentioned sleepers, so we have two sleepers already in a coma, Karadžić and Mladić and no one else, almost everyone stopped talking about them. So we have more of those sleepers and those who have drowsy, let's say so, and with whom, I am convinced, therefore, that these two laws that are offered can't do anything, only this sleeping state, these sleepers can sleep even more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17101	Please... let's go back to the agenda and not tie up what we said this morning or yesterday or 10 days ago. We're talking procedure today. We have demands, if we open up the replicas to everything someone said, I'm afraid this session, if anyone wants to, we won't be able to finish so quickly. That's why I'm warning the MPs. The discussion has already been attended by honourable Parliament Rajilić, so Bećirović, Bahtić, to return to the agenda and request for procedure. I ask the messengers to give up their replicas. Here I am, the first to give up. They did, but I have to finish the debate so I can do it. Dear Ambassador Rajilić has a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17102	Mr. President, it's a mistake, I wanted to replicate Mr. Novaković, but I'm giving up right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17103	Thank you. Dear MP Bećirović: discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17104	So I would like to say that the SDP proposal at the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives also adopted a resolution on BiH's accelerated path to the EU. So, the SDP will support all the essential reforms that this country truly brings closer to the EU, as it will always be against what are false reforms that change nothing in the Bosnian-Herzegovina society. So we're talking procedure. It is clear that there are political parties here to adopt these laws that treat BiH police, and those political parties that have made it very clear why they are against such laws. The essence of these laws, we'll talk about when we open the debate, now we're talking about procedure. I don't think it makes sense that at this stage we have three different proposals in the process from representatives of the Party for BiH, SNSD and HDZ, so from those who are represented as being for the adoption of such laws. 35 I think it would be good if it were possible for the three ruling parties, which are for the laws that we are offered, to at least come to a consensus at this stage and to get one proposal, if possible, in the debate before the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, and then we will all have the opportunity to say why this should be adopted or not. I think it would be good to have one proposal and to have this consensus, for the simple reason that both the SNSD proposal and the Party for BiH and this of the HDZ representatives, they are all so similar, not to say, in 95% the same, that there is really no reason to burden both Parliament and the opposition and the citizens of this country. So, really, if possible, give that 2%-3% difference, if there are so many, agree and open up a debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17105	Thank you. We have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. The law can be withdrawn by the end of the debate on the law. So, in order to start discussing the law, the procedure must be adopted, and after that, the Proposer has the right to withdraw the law until the debate is over. Dear Ambassador Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17106	Thank you. As my predecessors from the Party for BiH said, the BiH Party has tabled amendments in line with the Mostar Declaration. Also, I support the proposal by the chairman Špirić and his colleagues, Dokić, that these three proposals from the three clubs take a break, try to find a joint proposal. And I also want to say, the BiH Party has always been on the European path, supports this, we know, I would not agree with fellow denominator Ahmetović when he says this is nothing. This is one step, however, the EU has lowered the criteria to the lowest, a bit of demand, a lot of giving. Laugh, Comrade Lagumdžija. And as far as they're concerned about the word and signature, I'd like to refer my colleague to Remzija Kadrić, and I'm calling on the opposition to vote, not just the position. The opposition said here when we... here you go, see, Mr. Bećirović, are you here?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17107	... It's not a procedure. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17108	...procedure. He says, you don't need to lose... between the parade and the signature... which will.../unreasonably speak/ so you're an emergency, you don't need to waste time. So let's not waste any time, vote here! And my colleagues from the U.S.A., here's the Mostar Declaration, six signatures. And who it is today, people, don't stick to their signature. It is known what BiH is getting with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. And now it's those who want a European path, who want to go ahead, and these brakes that are minors, kobajagi.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17109	Let's get back to the procedure. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17110	Procedure... to... discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17111	Well, here I am, trying to direct the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17112	I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17113	I thank you, too. Dear Ambassador Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I will indeed remain in my debate on the procedure, regardless of all the arguments that speak in favor that it is strange that after two or three years of work and preparation on these laws, all possible debates, we will put them in a position to be considered by a hasty procedure, regardless of the arguments which say that it is not logical, that all this together is not enough to claim that the Rules of Procedure is being violated. I would like to say that the requests of all three MEPs, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with paragraph 127, and we have all been brought into this situation together, should we be reminded that the Joint Commission voted on two occasions in a way that the Pat-position had taken place, where it could not be determined with full right, nor that the Joint Defence and Security Commission had rejected these laws, nor that it had accepted them, given vote 6:6. If it hadn't been for that, we would have been in a position to consider these laws in a second reading, in a regular procedure, and today we wouldn't have this situation. I don't see any reason why we can't accept all three requests for an emergency procedure, and to ask here and ask everyone who can help make a statement about the laws, about the content of the law, about these three proposals of two, then we'd have a comfortable situation. If that does not happen, I personally continue to believe that there is a possibility and a likelihood that one of these variants and in the second vote will receive a sufficient number of votes, which was evident in this House's debate, in this House and in the first reading of these laws, as well as in the report of our Joint Defence and Security Committee. And then there was a number of votes enough to vote this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17115	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17116	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, all three proposals are legitimate but I think the best proposal is the one we are now discussing, so Party for BiH, counterpart Hadžiahmetović. I'm really convinced of that. I am convinced that this is a compromise solution that in 37 ways reconciles two halves from this parliamentary majority, and under those two halves, I mean SNSD and SDA. The SDA has not tabled amendments or made a proposal, which in some ways raises doubts about their commitment, but I personally have no doubt that they are for BiH's European path. I call on them to join us, to support the party's proposal for BiH. Also, I call on my SNSD colleagues to support our proposal, especially because at the stage of this previous one, I had clear signals that nothing is disputed with our amendments. The third thing, we had a total, colleague Kadrić and I, we had 16-17 amendments, we reduced all of this to one amendment that is effectively transposed into both laws by counterpart Hadžiahmetović. The next argument, in favour of what I'm saying, is that this change is actually a direct implementation of the Mostar Declaration and the Action Plan signed by party presidents that make up the ruling majority or parliamentary majority. I would also like to remind you, someone has already said, that the initialling of this agreement in Mostar has enabled us to paralyze the agreement with the EU and that we have made a promise one: that we will implement this agreement in these laws and that therefore the EU is offering us the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. If we didn't implement the principles of the Mostar Declaration, and I'm convinced that our interventions on the law are doing it, then we might be asking the question of our commitment to further police reforms, which are obviously here, from all accounts, that this is just the beginning. So, police reform continues to follow, whether we adopt these laws or not. The adoption of these two laws is actually just the first step along that little longer path. Someone here mentioned a reform of the defence sector, approximately, police reform will have, I mean the same path, same as the defence reform. So, in short, in order to show credibility, all of us sitting in Parliament and six parties who have accepted the Mostar Declaration, I am convinced that the best solution is what counterpart Hadžiahmetović has offered and I call on the parliamentary majority to support this proposal and to remove this heavy stone from the back, to go, to give citizens a perspective and to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I'm hanging in there.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17117	Thank you. I don't have any more charges to argue with. I'm closing the debate. And we move on to the next promoter of these two laws. We will have the same debate, and I would only like to point out to the MPs that we have already finished most of the debate on the procedure, so I ask that you determine yourselves accordingly and that we do not waste unnecessary time on this. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija: Business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17118	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. We should, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which defines an emergency procedure, 127, end everything under the first law, which is referred to by Article 101(7), which is very clear, which says, in the last sentence, that I do not iron you with the details, because you know very well, that if we have one 38 abnormal situation defined by the Rules of Procedure, that we have more than the same laws in the procedure, in the end it is very clear in the last sentence of Article 7 that: until the completion of the procedure before the House of First Law, if there are more than one law, the procedure of the other proposed laws rests. We cannot practically open the procedure of Mr. Kalabić's law, if I am not mistaken, and Mr. Lozančić, until we complete the procedure for the law of counterpart Hadžiahmetović. That's why I'm suggesting...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17120	...by the Rules of Procedure, so let's make a statement about this, we're talking about the content again, and then, after that, we solve this law properly, how it's already going so we can move on to Kalabic's procedure law, and then again about the content. I think the Rules of Procedure are very clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17121	Thank you. However, I want to believe that you want to help all of us here because no one is in the interest of complicated this session. We in the College have already said here, at the beginning of the session, how the session will be conducted. First, those members you read refer to the law, not the procedure. We haven't reached the law yet. When we get there, the law if the procedure goes through, those members apply to the law. And secondly, I set an example when Mr Ivanković's request, about 127, was the way we worked. Therefore, there is a debate on the request, all of it, and then it goes to the vote, when all the laws are voted on. Therefore, there is a clear Rules of Procedure. We agree in the College, and that's how we solved your dilemma. The discussion of two requirements, paragraphs 5 and 6, we are uniting into one debate. Ad. 5th and Ad. Six. We move on to the request of MP Drago Kalabić I'm opening a debate. Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try to listen to your suggestion because much has been said and not to repeat the discussion, since it really is the same procedure, the urgency, I think all the citizens of this country and all the people here are completely in agreement. I think it's quite clear why this has to be done urgently. About the simplicity of the procedure and the very law, I think we're also in agreement here, because 39 is all clear. The other thing is how anyone treats it. Fully human beings are right, so everyone knows exactly what it's all about, until the end of the line. So there's nothing unclear here and I absolutely allow people's right to make themselves clear, about what's clear, to be determined in their own way. So I tried to make a contribution to this whole thing. In the parliamentary jargon, we call these laws, although all laws are equal, we call them European laws. We hope that in this Parliament, as in all parliaments in transition, the European laws will be a complete or approximately unity between the opposition and the positions. This time we call for – we remind, that it is European laws and that we expect on this issue, when it comes to procedures and the adoption of the law itself, that we will not show the differences we show on other things in these European laws. As far as motive goes, I would remind you that the two laws, which I propose at this point, have the highest degree of consensus in this House. So, the largest possible degree of consensus in this House and they are the closest to adoption. Under these laws stands the Council of Ministers, a multi-party Council of Ministers, with great capacity in this majority that no one has come out of. No one has come out of the Council of Ministers to have such problems with the adopted laws, so no one has thought of that, if there are any minor differences, they are not the ones who were the ones who would eventually step down from the Council of Ministers, which means that there is complete agreement and there is a full consensus. It is our Council of Ministers, which is working at this moment, behind which is still, at this moment, the parliamentary majority and that is why I thought it was the best starting base and it is very close, if not enough, to fully adopt this Parliament. Whether it will be enough, we will see at the vote, but those at this point, these two laws, have at this moment the greatest capacity to be adopted. But right now, let me tell you that the SNSD is ready to talk about getting out of this situation where we have, the fact that we can't avoid having three very, very, very close laws, and that we can and should, after all, find, and I accept and support the appeal of the Council of Ministers, because that's the way to try and get out of this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17124	Thank you. Can I?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17125	The word has a respected chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17126	Thank you. I think all the conditions have been created to vote today on the 127 procedure because the law can be passed if it is urgent or not complex. I'm sure we'll agree that the reason is urgent. If we do so today, and if the House of Peoples after us confirms it and afterwards the Law is called in the Official Messenger, we have until 28, when it is a session, and when it is possible to sign and approve the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The SNSD is here today to support all requests because we believe that all requests are urgent. The SNSD is here today to support at least two laws and the SNSD is here today to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We invite everyone else to join us in this. Thank you. 40 Dear Messenger Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17127	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, allow me to say a few words very briefly. I must admit that the parties of the parliamentary majority today have staged a first-rate circus, although neither the time nor what we are discussing today should be the subject of the circus. If it is going with three proposals today, it is clear that the chances of an emergency procedure being adopted for any of the three proposals are even less likely for any of the three proposals to finally be adopted today for the seriousness of the moment. And I appreciate the rational and only correct at this point that the proposings agree with one proposal and, if necessary, to act in the debate. It is also clear today that these three proposals, which are on the table today, are not only proposals for solutions or variants of a solution of the same question, but are, in fact, an image and opportunity for the parliamentary majority to function. So, as suggested, take a break, agree on a proposal and spare us these tragic performances. It is not, I mean, neither serious nor fair that in this way you raise your ratings to yourself, within the parliamentary majority, whose members you are yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17128	Thank you. The next entry was made by the honourable representative Huskić. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So, the mistake, the next one's Prodanović, then Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17130	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Ministers, guests, we have a very important day today that I think we should all take responsibility in this country. When we are attacked in every way that we are late in reforms, in a situation where, I think, there is no one referred to above as elected officials in BiH, we must assume this responsibility, and I believe that this story that today is under emergency procedure, under Article 127, unfortunately, we have come to the situation that we have three proposals for the same two laws, two key laws in this country in which all other stories will be fully relevant in BiH after the adoption of these laws. In the SNSD, we believe that the maximum of what is part of the compromise has been achieved with both laws and on the Directorate and Coordination of Police Authorities and on the independent supervisory bodies of the police structure in BiH, all the conditions of the Mostar Declaration have been met, the European Commission's demands have been met, and in fact everything that has been passed through our commission in the previous procedure, 41 and which, unfortunately, we have not done. Of course, we need a compromise here. I believe there is no law for BiH if it is in line with the Constitution and the country's legal system more important than the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We must not, for the sake of petty differences and insisting on something that we may be in a situation that may not be full for six months or a year to coordinate everything with what the EU requires, our entire legal system to stop at this and to be in a situation where the full European commitment of this country, the fate of the citizens of this country, cease, or suspend, the negotiations on the facilitated visa regime, so to question everything that is, all this which would be beneficial from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Also, what I'm saying is that it's not true that these laws don't give away anything. They bring very important newspapers. Newspapers for BiH police structures related to the Coordination Directorate, to extremely important agencies formed, to supervisory bodies. In that sense, we believe that the adoption of these laws today that we have fulfilled everything in the context of the procedure under Article 127, that these laws should be adopted. I expect the support of all MPs and the minimum of compromises that we will achieve here, above all the signatories of the Mostar Declaration and the opposition, because I do not see that there is any difference in the sense of commitment to the European path of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17131	Thank you. A distinguished representative, Nanić, signed up for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17132	I would.../interferences/proposers of these laws to no longer convince us because all Mr. Prodanović says is that this law meets one, the other, the third, the fourth – he only meets one thing. He fulfils the clearly expressed commitment of his party's president, meaning he supports the laws that came to parliament, only because they do not enter into any segment related to the RS Police.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17133	Thank you. Has Mr. Prodanović answered? No, I don't. The following has been reported by the honourable representative of Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17134	I would like to say a few words about the procedure, the way he said it. The public needs to know what this is about. This isn't police reform. This will not speed up EU entry, it can speed up the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but that signature does not die for us. This will put the reforms to sleep. With sleepers today, the Council of Ministers and Parliament will become full of sleepers. The SDP is, to be clear, for the accelerated entry into the EU to reform BiH but 42 SDP is not for an accelerated signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement at all costs, without further reforms and with a clearly slowed path towards our goal that I believe we share. That is why it should be said: we are against both procedures and results and procedures in this way because as a result of a year and a half of work: constitutional reform nothing, police reform nothing, abolishing the RS Police, abolishing nothing, third entity nothing, making an internal BiH anything, implementing a verdict in The Hague for genocide nothing, Srebrenica its status nothing, the work of the government and the Council of Ministers, you can say, nothing, and more precisely speaking linguistically none. And regardless, people should sleep peacefully, these countries won't fall apart, this country won't share, this country won't have a third entity, this country won't be a unitary country for three reasons. No matter what you decide today, the world doesn't. Secondly, there is no force or possibility of being done in an emergency, and there is no constitutional possibility of anything being done in a constitutional way. And the third option, if anyone wants to do it by force, be convinced, whoever sets out to try to do it in a third way, will be a loser in 48 hours, because he reached out for the force and the unconstitutional things, and in 48 days, he'll be a real loser and the culprit for what happens to the first one, and then I guess some other court will have more to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17135	A distinguished representative of Bahtić applied for the replica. But before the replica, I would really ask you to stick to the Rules of Procedure and not call on the Rules of Procedure only when you think it suits you. At this point, we are only discussing the procedure and the request for procedure. So we're not discussing anything else. At least be so correct with each other that we can allow the debate to be properly conducted. The Honorable representative of Bahtić replica, and then the honourable representative of Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17136	...well, however, a series of false, inaccuracy has been presented here, and the public knows well that this will not speed up EU accession. The public is, the huge public is because, this very signature is a condition for the accelerated, it's up to us all. What's the alternative? The alternative is what you want: ghetto, isolation. He says, "The Council of Ministers is full of sleepers." The Council of Ministers started to work and I'm glad, and here it proposed a couple of months ago very important laws. SDP for a speeding trip? Don't, when he's here, the public sees, we all see what your goal is. You're the target of obstruction, everything that's on the European path, you're obstructing everything. This country won't fall apart. So who here said the earth would fall apart? Maybe that's what someone wants and sees only force, force. There's no force, Lagumdžija, you want it, you want to force yourself into power without, here, democratic elections, so I guess it's clear to everyone here. And these... revolutions, various resolutions, that should be clear to everyone who wishes for force! No force either, no one mentions the BiH state's collapse. And we in Krajina know exactly what kind of police you want. With our rickety General Alagić, you had lunch at one o'clock in the La Family today, you arrest him as the main criminal in the Sanski Most, at 3:00 in the morning. That's what you want the police to do, and the European police would never do that kind of thing. Now, that's your hypocrisy, let this public and citizens of BiH know well. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17137	The word has a distinguished representative, Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17138	Ladies and gentlemen, although we tried to get out of this debate, Mr. Lagumdžija was at least talking about the procedure. He had the need to send a lot of messages, non-supervised messages, contradictory messages, but he did not respect our proposal to do so when the content debate means the law, however, on the procedure. But well, it's not his first time. And I think it's his job. A lot of things he said was nothing, Mr. Lagumdžija took part in. Nothing, I've seen Mr. Lagumdžija on TV every time, and it's still nothing, Mr. Lagumdžija. You have all taken part in this and forgotten these things that you speak of. I've seen you on occasion with some opportunities to participate and make your contribution, not getting your grade, it's correct of you to say what you've been doing here. If it is said here in this House that the compromise, consensus and agreement of the basis in BiH, is the basis of its progress, what Mr Lagumdžija is now offering. He says he doesn't, he can't do this, which is the subject of agreement and compromise, I'm offering something else, some kind of force known from some time. He's offering force to settle the matter here. He mentions something nobody else mentioned. And for who knows which time we from SNSD ask what's the alternative to compromise and deal? What the deal was many times in BiH and these such a majority, Mr Lagumdžija offers an alternative to compromise, he offers force. He's offering, he's saying no, you're making deals, this isn't good. I tell you, on behalf of Europe, this is not good. Here I am, on behalf of Europe, telling you that this is not good. I'm Europe. I call again on the fact that we have to deal with these things. I was just listening to the SDP saying it would support the procedure, just before Mr Lagumdžija said he wouldn't support the procedure. And we asked to finish the debate on the procedure. Here's the space around the content, about everything. I have a lot to say. I have a lot to say about what Mr. Lagumdžija said that he has a desire to set the situation on fire in BiH. We don't. He sees, as many times, that's his squire. He sees a situation that we don't ever want to happen in BiH again, that someone, not to say otherwise what, the ox for a pound of meat, to make an absolute accident just because they're going to profit from a small political group or a party or, I don't know, an individual. I don't think we need a call and a message from this House like that. And I think it should be a condemned story of any kind of force, on any side, if we're just toleranceous people, let's say that we're going to solve all the problems with conversations, compromises and consensus. And I'm done with it. If it is not a solution for BiH to what we offer a compromise, let someone say what is an alternative to compromise and talks and agreements. I don't see her at this point. The Force isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17139	There are countless of you reporting for replicas. I don't think they contribute at all to this House, not to the successful work of this Parliament, so I suggest, I say all the time, and the fellow president has been talking all the time, giving a 15-minute break to get a little drunk, get a little water, get a little cold, and let's keep working normally. 44 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17140	Fellow Members and fellow MPs, meanwhile, have reported a replica and correction of the incorrect allegations. I don't have the order to answer and how here, but first I want to appeal to all MPs, colleagues and colleagues that these agenda points, given that this is a procedure, do not abuse topics that are not part of the agenda. I call once again on everyone to give up further replicas, corrections and false allegations. I don't have the opportunity to forbid it, but I appeal to all MPs to give up. Since I see they're going to apply, the ones that this appeal hasn't come across understandably, we're going in line. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija and Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17141	This is more, Mr. Chairman, a false allegation than it could be called a replica. The reason for that is very simple. When you're being falsely accused by the coalition brothers, you've got three options. One option is to say... that it is a lie and to say something about facts, such as lies that were related here to General Alagić's rickety, and in particular, I will not comment on it for reasons that are clear, but I especially want to correct the false allegations, because once a lie has been told, when it starts to repeat, it becomes true. Take the magnetogram, take it, get the video from the Internet, I didn't threaten the force. I just warned, I'm not going to say threatened, but warned: to one who calls upon the force to cross this country in an unconstitutional way, that he would be a loser just because he started the force. So much for the truth. The difference, Mr. Raguž, is huge. I'm just warning those who are calling on the force to be losers because they've launched the force to use in an unconstitutional way, that's quite clear. There's nobody, great, then there's no reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17142	Please don't throw each other away.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17143	Look at the media, come forward, and you'll see who it is. In the end, let me be very clear, and I have been warned in preparation for this session, and serious people from the international community, as well as some domestic representatives, that there are scenarios that involve force. I want to tell the public not to be afraid. The one who does that will lose. Nothing more. Another possibility is to say why someone's attacking you, why someone's lying, like it was this time obviously. So to hide the right picture of itself and false reforms or, say, to draw attention to the public that no one is asking you what was not killed in front of this House today, while the small law on the privileges of lawmakers is immoral. That's why.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17144	That's not the agenda point. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17145	And the third option is why someone's attacking you, and you're defending yourself, just to say, look who attacked you. Given who attacked me, maybe that's the best argument for a false allegation, instead of repeating what lies and reasons were for attacking me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17146	Dear Ambassador Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17147	I'll try to be as short as possible because... these are, like, three short replicas. It's a replica to Mr. Kalabić and it's a replica to Mr. Bahtić and, by the way, I'll say a few words about what we're talking about today. The consensus is, of course, necessary and necessary... and I only find it incomprehensible that in the parliamentary room you talk about consensus, and that from three ruling parties we get three different proposals which, in fact, when read at first glance, are almost identical. When they read a little more carefully, they may be some language variations but they rule out each other. Well, if you're talking to us here about consensus, and you've formed and organized power and you're the ruling coalition, aren't you able at least to achieve that consensus somewhere in the office, and not here... to harass both Parliament and citizens and journalists and the public and everything else? So, I'm absolutely, I support this view of consensus, I'm just appealing to you, maybe it'd be good to interrupt this session, so sit down, brother, and post a consensus that we don't waste time here because you don't agree within the ruling coalitions. The second short line would be – it's about what, so I'll dare, maybe this is too rough, maybe someone will resent my tactlessness, maybe finally, I don't care – I'll say what I think. Here for this situation that we have found ourselves in, it is exclusively the fault of the BiH Party. As president, here, one opposition party, I took part in those first negotiations when it was,...when the leaders of the political parties discussed the reform and I must tell you: then, if Dodik had proposed, what was real reform, remained behind those proposals, would have remained only the name of the RS police and uniforms and nothing more. Everything else would be situationed locally, and that other state level would have absolute control and we would get state police. Then they resolutely refused, and now we've got nothing. Now we're back 20 or 30 steps back. And third, given that I was a minister in the government, when my fellow generals Alagić, Hadžihasanović and Kubura were arrested, I would like to make it very clear, just to remind the public: the then president, then top commander was from the Party for BiH, the Federation President was from the Party for BiH, the interior minister was from the Party for BiH, the foreign minister was Lagumdžija, and the minister of human rights, the minister of labour and social policy and the Federation government's refugee was Sefer Halilović. So, I'd like to Bahtić up his memory, the European police -- this Bosnian police, when they arrest the general, she asks him if you want coffee -- European police to arrest, you know, put a hood on your head and six hours you... 46
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17148	Please, let's go back to the agenda if there's any way we can! If we can go back to the agenda and invite all MPs again to allow the third proposal to be discussed here on the procedure. If not, then they answered the line, honourable MP Kadrić and Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17149	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17150	I said so you could sign up again because it wasn't written down. Are you giving up or do you want a replica? Dear Ambassador Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17151	I'll do it real quick. I have to replicate these statements that Mr. Lagumdžija and Sefer Halilović had. So, just before, the honourable MP, SDP President Lagumdžija said... when he shared all possible units for theory, practice, practice in the work of the government in BiH, and did not mention the SDP which was on the way to reform, indeed there are arguments, only voted for its resolution on the accelerated process... BiH towards European integration, and this is the only document SDP voted for. The other thing about reform was against all that. And I just spoke when it came to that simple Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17152	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17153	Secondly, citizens are fortunately well understood how SDP sees police reform, which is the best case of sending an Algerian group to Guantanamo. The citizens recognized it well, and that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17154	Please try to get back on the agenda, please!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17155	And therefore, I won't. Secondly, Sefer Halilović was a Maolot in his replica, as he had already said, absolutely mixed up all things. So it's really impossible to sort all these things out now, to rephrase. So he mixed everything up, so he doesn't even know what he's saying. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17156	Dear Ambassador Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17157	Short. Mr. Lagumdžija told the public really the facts? All the public, we all know, here he is today saying we'll get a deal without law on police. You're lying, Mr. Lagumdžija. Lajčak told them a hundred times, and in the end, everyone said: there is no agreement without law on police.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17158	Please address MPs with all due respect.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17159	Number two, I'm just gonna...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17160	Don't throw it away, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17161	...to my colleague, Sefer Halilović, he obviously has a party complex for BiH, I understand that his party has fallen apart, his van party, the traveling one, that's your problem. The stage for BiH is growing every day, and you, the European police, I know well, I was talking about that I can sit with a colleague here at the bar today, I have a... pocket to tell him and sign up, but he's hiding and sending me lunch, and I'm sending him home and he's sending the police to me and he's arresting me. That's the kind of police you want a colleague of yours... military, racketeering, consecration.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17162	Please!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17163	It's not in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17164	Please, honourable MPs, if this grows back into a duel with replicas, I, as chairman, will take a break again and each time give a break until you give up the replica. Therefore, I invite you, I urge you to try to reduce your replication needs in the next period. Dear MP Bećirović: business intervention. Here you go. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17165	Mr. Chairman, if it's from you, it's too much. First, you go out and leave the House to be chaired by Mr. Lozančić, who notes who's in line by the lines, then you come, so he doesn't hand you a list of who's in line, let people muddle as much as he wants and what SDPBiH wants, let them use a termology that's not even a street, let alone Parliament. And then, when the people of the SDP need to answer those slanders, you say you'll take a break. Please, you are here as chairman of the House of Representatives, to treat all MPs correctly and to interrupt MPs at the beginning if they do not use the terminology that is appropriate to this House, and not when SDP MPs need to answer this, that you are then talking about some breaks. So this is a business intervention, and SDP MPs also have a number of replicas on these untruths.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17166	Since you are constantly calling on the Rules of Procedure that you are violating very often, I will call on a member of the Rules of Procedure to give a warning of exclusion. The next for replica is Ambassador Bećirović, and I said I didn't get that list, to re-apply. Now you've re-applyed. Here's your replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17167	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17168	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Halilović has a reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17169	Very short. I don't have a complex at all... Party for BiH and, Mr Bahtić, be patient by October 1st, so you will see what it is, what it will be like after the elections political geography. I will constantly remind voters of what you promised: abolishing the RS Police, abolishing the RS, 100% employment, etc. etc. Then you will explain it to the voters, not me. It's you, and I don't have a complex at all, but I'm sorry to tell you, I'm sorry to tell you, I'm sorry for some decent people who, within the BiH Party, have to do something that they don't agree with. I was in meetings, I heard what the president of the SNSD was saying. It was acceptable for 90% of the participants, and the reform has been resolutely rejected, and we have now received what we have received and here you are now getting chestnuts out of the fire. For this reform, for these laws, I will raise your hand. For what was then agreed at the first meeting, I would gladly... support it. The second question is whether or not I got mixed up, about that then, it seems to me that these hydroelectric power plants have passed so that the situation here would be different, but since they haven't passed, unfortunately, we have this situation that we have, I'm not going to tell anyone anymore. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17170	Dear Ambassador, thank you. Dear Ambassador Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17172	You didn't give up? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You didn't give up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17174	Thank you. I really assure you that it's very difficult for me to replicate and that I rarely use it. And although I've had a lot of reasons lately for the replicas that go to the account of the party that I belong to, but these are the replicas that are polite, actually, can't even replicate, you know. They're coming out of the frame of a nice behavior, and I'm not going to replicate it now. But I'd ask my colleagues to think about one good thought from an American psychologist who said, "If you have only a hammer from a tool, then every job will look like a nail to you." That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17175	Dear Ambassador Bešlagić had a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17176	Look, I really didn't have the will to replicate, but I will plead as Selim Bešlagić. I no longer want to regret what this Parliament has missed, let everyone bear responsibility for what could have been done and not done. I'm interested in how far and as far as we go, this is what we have today, and it's harder for me than it was last time. The law you had last time, if you'd gone for 127, it could've gone through and there's no problem. And today we have three laws, 95% are the same, 5% are different and today I ask myself questions: If we make a statement that all three laws are 127, how are we going to bring this business to an end? I think Mr Špirić was excellently suggested that the position that can pass the law be met and agreed on by the law that goes here for 127th and then we discuss it and say what we have to say. Don't expect the opposition to boast, don't expect it. Anything that's constructive, we'll accept. And I'd like to ask that we listen a little bit better, and I'd like to use an expression that's familiar in BiH: "What's my grandmother's pleasure, it's her dream." Here he hears and replicates what he hears, and not what others say. So I don't want to replicate it at all, but I would ask you to put a position that can, so bring a law here to vote, by 127, come on, agree and come out with that law. I think that 50 would be correct both towards this parliament and, according to, here, what you say BiH, towards the citizens of BiH and after the citizens of BiH say: these people voted to sign the agreement. And let them accuse me, if I voted against, yes, and if I vote against. So I accept that responsibility, and I can't say that both are right and third. Who Nikola Pašić and you're right and you're right, and he's right. It can't be like that! Therefore, I ask you, is it possible from the three laws that have been delivered here under Mr Nikola Špirić's proposal to agree that and what is the law and that we here pass this law, that is to go to this procedure and speed up this process. Here and the third law will come, I would ask that nothing be discussed...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17177	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17178	...because he's simply the same as this, in these details that could be overcome in this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17179	Dear Ambassador Zorić had an incorrect quote or replica, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17180	No, no, I have an argument.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17181	And you're having an argument?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17182	Yeah. I'm... I'm consistent.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17183	A discussion or a replica? Dear Ambassador Zorić, then Jovičić, then Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17184	I, in accordance with my proposal that this debate should go on about these six laws, will also say that me and my colleague Raguž, from the HDZ 1990s, support all three requests, or all six requests for 127, and we will do everything possible to get the law today. To me, I must say, when I answered and waited more than an hour to get the opportunity to say these few sentences, it is now clear why, at every session of the opposition, she asked for a direct broadcast on television. So, for the slightest sentence, everyone from some club can replicate. I respect those who don't, and I think the most constructive of the SDP Club was Mrs. Malić and I thank her for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17185	Thank you. 51 Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17186	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I can't really understand what is surprising in this House that three proposals of these laws have come. Or we live in some virtual world, an imaginary country, and we don't understand what's going on here. Here, gentlemen, I told you earlier on some other points of the agenda, three constituent peoples, two entities and the biggest act of law and political this country is the Constitution. If that were possible, if this were a one-national country, a one-party country, then I'd start like this: starting with attitudes 12 and 13. The Congress of the Communist Union, my proposal is like this, support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17187	Please, let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17188	...this procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17189	Procedure, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17190	So, I'm asking you, is someone going to keep convincing us by some story that we're supposed to be a remethyl factor, and we've been constructive, we're always for compromise. And here we have two dilemmas: will we adopt this procedure, agree one of these three proposals? And, said Mr. Kalabić, that we can also accept these proposals from Mr. Lozančić, to get out of all this or we really don't want to go to Europe. There's no third alternative. Is there anything else? Is there anyone smarter here, I don't think than me, of course, more capable of saying, "If we don't do this, what are we gonna do?" And then these from NGOs will come, says: the inefficient Parliament passed two laws, three, one, and we spent our energy as if we had passed 5,000 laws. I beg you, so don't live in a world, not accept the specificities of this country. We have a proposal from the Council of Ministers, a proposal came, we supported it. But why are we here lying to ourselves and cheating when there was a clear goal here: as soon as the RS police have not been abolished, nothing is wrong! It won't be lifted, the constitutional position is like that. It can't be lifted. We haven't come to a change of constitution. Who's right? Right now, what Mr. Lagumdžija said could be connected, but not in that light. If that's not the case, who here violates the Constitution? Who is trying by force to change BiH's constitutional structure? So we at SNSD don't do that. We said clearly and now we will repeat: we are on a European path, we want to help the Council of Ministers and ourselves and what, as I always say, let the public, the citizens, whether you listen to me or repeat what you do not listen to, then listen to what I say, but listen to what I say. The public in Banja Luka is not the same as the public in Sarajevo. Is that clear to you once? So anything that comes from Sarajevo to Banja Luka won't be supported, especially when it's the abolition of the police and the ministry and, I don't know, what else and the collapse of the constitutional position. So please, here's another chance, a compromise, a solution, and all this to be adopted today to sign this agreement 28. And then call on what 52 citizens have told you. All the citizens say to me, "Glory, don't give it to the police and I won't give it to you." And let me go with your procedure, you can talk about what you want and you can cheat on yourself here. I beg you, here, we've done everything. What else do you want from us? Here I ask you directly, you who are against all this, against the procedure, against 127, against the law, against the EU, what else do you want from us?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17191	We're talking about procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17192	I'm talking procedure, it's all procedure. Please, you have a procedure here and a Lagumdžija tyrada. Use the media, and there he is, and now he's still got 50 cameras waiting for him. It's important to him. He doesn't care what he says here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17193	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17194	And then, of course, she -- I have to, this is procedure, so please -- you allow it because...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17195	I don't allow that and...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17196	...because you're a Democrats, you're a Democrats.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17197	...I'm trying to focus my discussion on the agenda. Please don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17198	No, no, this isn't at your address.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17199	Don't abuse what I let people say your opinion, please..
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17200	Mr. Chairman, I didn't mean to say that. I'm saying how democratic you are and how nervous you are, I admire you. You're for the greatest prize, you're for the prize. So run the session tolerantly, tolerantly run the session, listen to all this!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17201	That doesn't mean I won't warn you. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17202	You won't warn me, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17203	Please finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17204	You intend to do more and pressure on the RS and seek out what is impossible at this stage and will never be possible again.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17205	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17206	Well, it's not very good that in this House it's such a cheerful atmosphere, and outside of this parliament in the whole country it's pretty sad and miserable. But that's the state of this country. I will not speak as loudly as Mr. Jovičić, even at the beginning of my discussion, I will support him in all my heart when he says that the Constitution of BiH should be respected. And if we were to respect the BiH Constitution and implement the Dayton Peace Accords, truly, honestly and comprehensively, many problems in BiH would be solved in a more appropriate and better way than today. However, it cannot be called to the BiH Constitution only then and in those parts in which the BiH Constitution corresponds. A colleague, Jovičić, belongs to SNSD, this same SNSD is in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, not for a month, I think, adopted this resolution, which says: that RS will establish its state-law status.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17207	That's your answer, your reply to the replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17208	Replication response. So, it will determine its state-law status. It is also said that RS will enter the procedure for determining its state-law status, etc. Mr. Jovičić, find me a member of the BiH Constitution that gives the right to any entity to do these things. The last people to do so in BiH are in the woods today and are running from justice. We are only here together in the BiH Parliament by the will of all the peoples of BiH and, according to the BiH Constitution, we can decide on the fate of this country. And no such one-sided and anti-constitutional acts.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17209	Your Honor, please, the chairman of the Council of Ministers has asked for a word. Here you go. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17210	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, ministers, distinguished guests, I am here with you all the time today, and I would like the debate to be directed, if possible, towards more effective work, but you will make your own decision. And I think the debates that go after the culprits for different situations aren't on the agenda. Today, a solution is sought, a solution that is of interest to the citizens of BiH. That is why those who think there may be controversy here may be a happy situation, but that such a situation is almost certainly not in the public of BiH. I thought, first of all, that the debate would end on the procedure of all the laws that have been concluded. That's when I thought I'd take my word for it, and that's why I cut this off with the intention of helping you, but also to help track down the solution, and I suggest, first of all, that there be a debate on all three proposals, all three proposals. To say after that – therefore, we have a clear situation here, the BIH Party has its amendments, the SNSD has a law entirely as proposed by the Council of Ministers, Mr Lozančić has a proposal which is also a proposal of the Council of Ministers, along with an amendment attached to the Mostar Declaration, and, ultimately, I heard discussions today – that it is all similar to each other plus, minus 5%, 10%. I didn't weigh whether it's similar or not and what weight it gives to who, but it's about the skeleton of one of those same laws. What is very important: to take a break, to see if the SNSD is ready to correct its position, because he said he would not do without the amendment, and I hear that there are such proposals, which is also not bad. Is the Party for BiH ready to correct its request and is it any solution that has not been offered within the Party for BiH or within the SNSD? Then let us return to the meeting, and say, "We have a solution and we will make it clear." So I ask you to take a break, because it would mean looking for a solution. If the debate is over and pleads, it's almost certain... it won't be so. So it's very important that we heard today, I don't think we've wasted any time, because there are certain movements on the trail of finding a solution. If it helps to pause, I think it should be done and easily seen – is SNSD closer to the amendments, to be clear, closer to the amendments of the BiH Party or the HDZ amendments? Is the Party for BiH closer to the SNSD or HDZ proposal? So to try to find a medium solution that is not ideal as you all say laws are not ideal, but chances are and it is possible to change those laws after a month, after two months, when a political agreement is reached here for change. In the way the debate is conducted, I am not convinced that a better political agreement can be reached. So, what, that's, this is what's possible now. If possible, move radically. And I'm just asking, if it's not possible to move, let's not compromise the process that matters to BiH. It's my request and so I think it's worth listening to, so, all these proposals without replicas, give a break, try to see if the attitudes of those who can clearly give a solution today can get closer or today will be put, today or tomorrow, point to all these attempts so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17211	Thank you. Let's take it in a row. The honourable MP, i.e. the second vice-president, Mr Belkić, had the wrong assumption, Mr. Jovičić had a replica, so Mr. Lagumdžija. Here you go. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17212	It's not the president's allegations, it's just information to talk. There's talk, of course there's talk. But I've got a curved quote of a larger number of people who've replicated here. Because to me, because those replicas seemed to me, both content and how they were intonated, as if the general elections were in a month. I just want to say that the election isn't in a month.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17213	Is the Honorable Messenger Jovičić giving up or not giving up?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17214	Oh, very briefly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17215	It's not a matter of short or long, is it what you're going to say? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17216	So, fully supporting that you tried to direct this session to this procedure, but I really want to react. Who mentions a declaration here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and what is that all about? Well, that's the story we've had a few sessions already. It's over, it shouldn't be repeated here. Let's get back to this. Am I supposed to mention now what Mr Bećirović says? What a forest, us in the city, downtown, on the asphalt, he's a forest, and it's always gonna be that story, some out there looking for. So let us out of SNSD, we have nothing to do with this story! And don't burden us with that, we're here in Parliament to look for solutions and, if you've listened, I said, what's the alternative, if this doesn't pass today and we won't. Go ahead and suggest and we'll really see what our goal is! Should we pass the law or not sign an agreement in the EU, there is no third. So you stay here for ten days.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17217	Thank you. The Honorable Ambassador of Lagumdžija had. Here, it's second to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17218	Okay. I think it's very good that the chairman of the Council of Ministers tried this intervention to sort of put this in the pantry. I think it's a good thing he's been precise now, since he's declared himself to be actually a man who, in the end, still sees a solution in Mr. Lozančić's proposal,...if I understand him well. Yeah, but that's acceptable, too. Since it is said at one point, you can look at the video that has on the Internet, thank Bog, I also realized that the Council, for the Council of Ministers, from your presentation, and for the Council of Ministers that this solution is acceptable to Mr. Lozančić, which brings a whole new light into all of this, because then it means that, since the Minister of Security is also part of the Council of Ministers, if you have already assessed it as acceptable to the Council of Ministers, I suppose that means some session that we haven't seen or some change in the behaviour of the Minister of Security, which would be very good. So I suggest, Mr. Chairman, that on the trail of this you really see if... The Council of Ministers can come up with a proposal to make it good, so we don't bother this whole gathering.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17219	Obviously we're not listening well, no one said that, but here. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, he has the advantage, the rest afterwards. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17220	I'm sorry. So we understand each other, and it's good to understand each other. I think my colleague Lagumdžija understands. No need, I mean no, the public works. This could be over today, it could fall tomorrow. If someone came up with a solution to drop it and keep working on it, I get it. I spoke here as chairman of the application for Parliament to find a solution. Different resolutions exist, the Council of Ministers said theirs. You can't imagine how you can accept that the Council of Ministers is older than Parliament. So the law came, that law, you will definitely say a word about the law, even if the Council of Ministers said it disagreed. And you know that's how it is. But I'm asking you today to seek a solution. So that's my request. I know what the country is in and what this would mean to me or without me. It is a great punishment for this country that there is a Parliament, that the Council of Ministers proposes that projects do not go through, that we stand in place. Who's gonna do that? What kind of parliament gives the chairman his hands to talk to Brisel tomorrow and any delegation that comes to BiH and I ask them to help BiH. They say it's okay, what are you going to do in BiH, pass those two laws? So please, that's what they tell me every day. So if I ask anyone to help this country, you must arm me well... we have passed laws. What I think about these laws, whether they are the best, whether they are ideal, average or worst, is less important at this point for the ordinary world in BiH. And so I pray: Let us not replace the thesis, try to draw closer to attitudes. I'm afraid we're moving away and where people agree, in a way, today's debate is only a matter of procedure, but I don't think the procedure is either. And that's why my request is, I won't replicate, we have to have nerves all of us and you and I in the interest of BiH. If EU foreign ministers say, if, therefore, Mr Kurkulas, who is the head of the EU Office in Sarajevo: I will not recommend signing an agreement unless this is over. If OHR and the High Representative say, if we think we're enough for all of Europe and the world ourselves, then it's just not good. So, all those who think they won't reform anything in BiH are in great error because global processes will reform all flows in BiH, just as we would all oppose. It's just that it's going to take 50 years, and I guess we're here to shorten these procedures and help the citizens of BiH. I also invited the party that I belong to to the deal, because I saw that mood exist. I see with these other people you have to make each other and make political exits. Every reform comes with big misunderstandings, so we destroy the manipulative space to go to the citizens tomorrow, but I guess that's why we're masters. And I also respect those who will not vote 57 for these laws, respect their views, but I don't think they should compromise the space that is a deviation for those who want and think it's good for BiH. They'll appreciate the public from a distance everything we've done right and wrong. And so don't, so the Council of Ministers has a proposal, I should be liquefying today, let's say, we adopted without amendments, bravo. And I know what you would politically pick up, and I won't, and here I call on my political party, I call on everyone, come on, people, come on to each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17221	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž asked for a correction to the wrong quote or replica, something.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17222	Replication to Mr. Lagumdžija's esteemed representative. This is the first replica and we have spent all of it together maybe two or three minutes since the start of the debate and we will continue to be rational, but I think it is important to intervene either, because every time a constructive proposal appears here, and this time it has been articulated by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Lagumdžija reports and seeks within the parliamentary majority the basis of his criteria, who jumps out of that task and imagined opinion. And I had to react. So, what's actually going on here, and I'm gonna end up in these three minutes. So it is clear to everyone that the scale has not come down, because we have not even been on a scale that could have secured the passage of Parliament. And let's do this story once. So no compromise has been reached, we are only today at the chance that – it would be better if we were on that larger scale, I agree, unfortunately we are not. About this scale measurement today, which is said here, this country loses a terrible lot, and I here must, last time I did it ten days ago, quote a Bosnian Herzegovic Nobel laureate, the esteemed writer Ivo Andrić, who said a hundred years ago almost, so: In this country every nation, each one is measured in its own way, and even time. And gentlemen, for us representatives of this party, time is a really important factor and we don't have and nor will we support further delaying this situation in which, if the agreement doesn't come, the messages to the citizens of this country are going to survive, so who can stand it more. Because we've never taken a step in a way that makes us agree, so let's go stronger as a country. The Council of Europe has given us post-op obligations, made this concession, so here we are struggling and today we are looking for this information, and today we have the opportunity to accept police reform, so that in the process we are talking about, but that the country is using funds and to measure European times. It doesn't have to be time for Banja Luka or Sarajevo or anyone else. To measure European times. Here, we accept European time, let the stopwatch turn around here today, and let's take those standards. Otherwise, don't let us talk black and white, the good laws aren't, we all know this is the maximum right now. And I think the College, too, has some responsibility, has a chance to take a break, call the club chiefs and find a deal on one of the proposals and most of it. Because everyone says there's no big difference between proposals. Here, I personally, in the name of the HDZ in 1990, can accept any proposal or even Mr. Lozančić, which I recently fought politically with. Here, because it's in the interest of the country. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17223	Thank you. We've just opened a debate about this. The college will certainly invite all club presidents, but we wanted to give the opportunity to explain all three of the proposals. For that reason, I ask you to refrain from replicas and false allegations so that we can do so. Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17224	Well, I must say, indeed, it's a little strange why my colleague Raguž decided to replicate to his colleague Lagumdžija, i.e. the SDP and SDP MPs. For a simple reason, the people who are watching this need to know that the ruling coalition in this House is the number of 31 MPs. There are five MPs in the SDP. To get past this, you need 22 MPs. Those who could watch what you were now talking about and if they were not well-versed could conclude that Zlatko Lagumdžija and these SDP MPs are your main obstacle to why this can't go away. So 32, 31, the man belongs to the ruling coalition, you signed that you will bring these, among other things, to police reform, you have a parliamentary majority, there is no need to worry so much about these five opposition SDP MPs unless the SDP arguments really force you to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17225	Thank you. I've got two more reported. Is it necessary? Dear Ambassador Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17226	I just got a text message from a friend here and I'm conveying my gratitude to his Mr. Bećirović for explaining to him what this is about. He didn't understand anything. Now he's got it all figured out.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17227	Thank you. I've got a... business intervention, dear Ambassador Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17228	Mr. Chairman, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17229	To a member who? 59
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17230	Yes, a business intervention to the fact that some MPs in the governing structure have cell phones that haven't killed the signal, and we've been killed. So, I ask you to resolve this if Mr – this is not funny at all – since Mr. Huskić is referring to a text message he received in an O.R. where there is no mobile signal. I'm asking you to make it clear if you and this were introduced to have mobile phones between you, and that you were the opposition... Thank you very much, I don't think this is funny at all. Unfortunately, I don't see this at all funny, but this is much rougher than you want to accept.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17231	Mr. Lagumdžija, I think you've crossed... good taste. I don't want to get into that kind of discussion here at all. This wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'll take your word for it next time. Dear Ambassador Zorić had a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17232	I would just confirm to my colleague Lagumdžija that what he says is true. Not only can we receive messages, but we also receive messages sent to members of the SDP.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17233	Little you, we have two more registered for discussion. Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17234	Mr. Chairman, the House of Parliament is a very serious place and today in this serious place we are talking about very serious topics. Today's discussion, with all due respect to you and the entire presidency and understanding your plight, is nothing like this serious place, nor is the discussion similar to the topic we are talking about. Gentlemen, I don't think there have been any more stories than this story on any subject, a very important political subject. Four years of reform, the reform of police structures in BiH, keeps us in one path- position where we... are simply in a vicious circle and, if we don't get out of that vicious circle today or tomorrow, we're just going to thicken it up so we can run faster in that vicious circle. This all reminds me of one bass that -- two turtles go by and one of us says, but the two of us go slow, and this one suits her, so she says, maybe it's better, I'm not sure, we're not sure we're going in the right direction. Is it really for us, is European integration the right direction or is it not the right direction? There is now an open dilemma and a very, very, very current question. If this is the right direction, then for the first time in 60 of these four years, since we started talking about police reform, we have one proposal for a law behind which the representatives of the European Commission stand and said: if you adopt this law, here is the 28th you will already sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The proposal is a proposal from the Council of Ministers. Therefore, if we really think that this is the right direction and we should move faster, not tap into a vicious circle, then the proposal of the Council of Ministers, which is one of these proposals today of these three, and about it we should... make a statement and go that faster way. But here's to getting me back to business. I think we should give this third proposal a chance, that is, to the third package of proposals. Let's hear what's going on here, so that we can create conditions to really respect what the Prime Minister's Board chairman has suggested that after that three parliamentary clubs sit down and try to come up with a proposal that we're going to plead with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17235	Thank you. I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate, and we're going to the seventh and eighth points of the agenda, we're uniting the debate. Ad. 7th and Ad. 8. The request of MP Niko Lozančić on the laws that were in previous debates I'm opening a debate. Dear MP, First Deputy Chairman Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17237	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, the Honorable Chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, the distinguished guests, here are to me after four, five hours... it has been an honor and pleasure to present to you this proposal, or my proposals, but at the same time to explain. I'm going to try to do the best I can to stick to exactly the business procedure I keep calling for. I'll explain why I proposed this law and why I'm asking it to be considered in article 126, 127, excuse me. In accordance with our Rules of Procedure, when there is a high level of urgency or when certain matter is not a high degree of complexity, the procedure referred to in Article 127 may be requested. I'm thinking that both conditions are met, so there's a high degree of complexity, so I'm going to explain it, and it's also not about complex matter, so I'm going to explain that. I will not call on anyone or appeal or in any way influence anyone in this Chamber to define themselves against this proposal, but I will explain the reasons for my party, the reasons for my HDZ party, why we entered this activity and why I have proposed these two laws in front of the HDZ Club and why I am asking today to discuss it in haste procedures. 61 In recent times, even today, we have heard very often here in this chamber of grudges of the type that all important decisions in this country are being made outside BiH institutions. Someone more, someone smaller, someone more picturesque, someone less picturesque. We have also heard how we expect, how we should advocate, how we should seek to make this Parliament a central place of decision on the most important issues in this country. I agree with that. I agree that all the most important decisions in this country must be made here in this Chamber, in this House, and that Parliament should be raised above the overall and daily political needs of various peoples in order to make decisions in the best interests of all the peoples and all the citizens of BiH. Why do I think this is a matter of urgency? We have very clear messages and they are not complicated, they are not complex. Today, gentlemen, in BiH you have two laws that are literally called – I speak on purpose for the public, because this debate does not even mention what the laws are called, and it is discussed – is one proposal for a Law on the Coordination of Police Authorities and Agencys for Supporting the Police Structure of BiH. It's very short why this law is simple. This law establishes one directorate and three agencies that today do not exist in BiH, and therefore it is simple. So nothing spectacular is happening to this law. One directorate and three agencies. Maybe someone thinks this department shouldn't or that these three agencies don't need it. I think we need this directorate and I think we need these three agencies. It is a very simple question, and since the adoption of this law is one of the last conditions for BiH and all its citizens not to slam the European door, not to open it, but not to slam it, not to close it completely, I have chosen to propose, to make my contribution, to express my relationship against what we are always saying. And I'm saying, like all of you here, that the top priority for all BiH citizens is the European way, that these are European and Euro-Atlantic integration and that it's not enough to just talk about it. Let's do something to get to it! And another law that is the same degree of urgency for the same reasons and also simple for other reasons. The other law is called the Law on the Independent and Supervisory Authorities of BiH Police Structure. These laws don't establish any police areas, don't define relationships, don't determine territory, nothing, none of it. So this law establishes three independent supervisory bodies at BiH level. The supervisory bodies we already have at the level of the Federation's counties and at both entities level, we already have that, only at BiH level, we don't have that. Maybe someone doesn't think it's necessary at BiH level. I think you should. I am delighted that the European Commission has agreed to give BiH citizens a chance to adopt these two laws first by deciding to join European integration. And that step is called signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I don't call these laws police reform laws, because that's not what they're called, so I read their names. So let's not change, let's not discuss something that's not being discussed today. I have offered these two legislative proposals here in Parliament after two proposals were offered and those who read both the first and second proposals, i.e. other proposals and this proposal, will agree, here some have said 95% similarity, I think there is 99.5% similarity. So I think so, but here's what I might be doing wrong in the assessment. Why did I suggest that? Try to come to a compromise. All three of these proposals are acceptable to me and the HDZ Club will support the procedure for all three proposals. It's acceptable to me, even though my proposal is the last in a row. So it can happen and, God Bog, that before my proposal comes, let's pass these two laws. At the same time, I will withdraw my law from the procedure. So... and I guess the other one. I don't mind, but let's just... when we talk about a compromise to really make an effort to come to a compromise. And let's not hide behind anyone. So 62, that's why at the beginning of the story, I told that story about how all the important decisions are made outside the institutions. Here's a chance to bring them here, so right here where we're looking for decisions to be made. And we just don't have the right, so that's why I'm saying this,...we don't have the right to hold the hostages of BiH citizens and tell them some big stories about how the world will fail if we adopt these laws. He won't. So if we adopt these laws, the world will not fail. We will establish institutions that we do not have so far which, in my deep conviction, need BiH but if we do not adopt these laws, any of these proposals, what is certain, the date of signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is not delayed for 15 days or a month, it is delayed indefinitely, perhaps until the end of this term of office, perhaps by the end of the term of office and the next term of the Parliament, no one knows. So... here in that sense, I ask you only to understand my reasons and my motives... why today in the parliamentary procedure I have proposed these two laws. I expect that every single one of us, I don't want to call or call anyone, take up his share of responsibility, and that part of the responsibility will be expressed through the voting and commitment of any of these proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17238	Thank you. From the SDP who first? Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija, Honorable Ambassador Bećirović? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17239	Well, I've listened very carefully to the promoter of these two laws. And the proposer himself several times in this opening argument very firmly claimed that these laws are neither complex nor complicated. Now, there's something that makes sense to me. We all know very well that High Representative Pedi Eždaun made a restructuring decision in summer as early as 2004 to form a commission to restructure police in BiH. And this has been going on for almost five years from 2004 to today, and when we take maybe five more years to implement it, we can round it up for ten years. If one reform lasts ten years in this country, is it possible to say that it is not complex or complicated? Or really in this country and the simplest reforms take ten years. Then the question really arises how long it will take in this country complex reforms and complex laws, if what you have now indirectly said is that it's just been going on for five years and while it's being implemented, it means another five, at least 10 years. I'd like to, if possible, explain it a little bit?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17240	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković has a replica on your discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17241	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I don't think it's correct of us who don't want to support these laws to, at the very least, prevent those who want to do so. Here, I've been listening for four hours here to SDP's replicas of 63 replicas, replicas of replicas, false allegations. The chairman doesn't care how many people he's replicating at, so I'm sure some colleagues have replicated here and several times, and I'm not destined to listen to all this. If colleagues who want to vote for this law think they can do so in the way they have proposed, I don't see why you bother them, gentlemen.../a brief suspension of the recording/... law and we think there are enough police bodies and competencies at BiH level that all issues can be resolved by their fair use. But that's what we think. That's not what the European Commission thinks, it's not what these people think... from the parliamentary majority. We don't want to bother you to pass the laws, if you think you can adopt them. But, of course, we won't support them. Calling on some Pedi Eždaun, not to say the accident, which has invented three principles, and then presented them as the principles of the European Commission, makes no sense. Two other high-ranking representatives passed after him, thank Bog. If he had left early, it would have been better. So, please, I'm asking my SDP colleagues to really allow us all to follow the work of this session normally, not to make us leave this session because they're bored of both Bog and the people with today's replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17242	The Honorable Ambassador of Lagumdžija had a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17243	It's not a replica. It's a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17244	Discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17245	Yes, Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17246	He has the first honourable Mr. Lozančić to answer Beqirovic's question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17247	Thank you, Mr. President. So it's not the answer to the replica, it's the answer to the question. ... Here, let me try to answer that. Whether it makes sense or not, for you or for me, it's in front of each of us subjectively determined on a particular question. So, what makes sense to me, it absolutely doesn't have to be logical to you. What makes sense to you doesn't have to to me, and here, in that sense, as far as logic is concerned. But what you've set is very interesting, it is. Do we need to ask the simplest question for 10 years? I think that's a fundamentally good question, an understandable question, if we need it. Well, I wonder if we need it, too. If we keep acting like this, the way we're acting today, it's gonna take us a lot more than 10 years for much simpler questions. Well, I want to make my contribution that we don't need 10 years for simple questions. I want simple issues to be resolved simply and quickly and efficiently in the interests of all citizens of this country, so. And I agree it's not good to spend 10 years on simple questions. Here, I don't know if I've satisfied your... 64
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17248	Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija: Discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17249	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand Mr. Novaković's need, and that's good, to distance himself from the SDP and I think that man is absolutely right. That distance needs to be done and it shouldn't be disturbed unless people have noticed it by now. It's self-evident. I would, since Mr. Lozančić is very, and I thank you for having elaborated in one way that we haven't had so far. I mean, he did try to get us into different ways and, what he suggested, I think that's good, and as a serious man, he referred to business opportunities and commented on them, because we're talking about procedure. And, of course, it's good that he tried to explain to us that it's laws that are either urgent or simple enough and as he claims, in this case, both. I agree they're urgent, I couldn't agree more. I can agree that it's simple, if we accept that we're just arguing that we've discussed everything so far, it's just this little amendment, so it could be pretty simple in itself, assuming it's like that. I'd like to ask Mr. Lozančić here, I agree with him, I'm even more inclined to this assessment that 99% are similar to these three laws. The difference between them is nothing. She's trying to play some words and it's more or less out there and that if we can agree. We have a problem with any of them from the basics of the 99% that they're the same, not the 1% that they don't agree on. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Lozančić, to comment on this a little bit. You see, I think your amendment, since you're practically different from your colleagues, let's say, from SNSD in a different formulation, in the second formulation of these two, I'm not talking about amendments, but I'm explaining that it's not clear. I'm talking about procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17250	I hope that if the procedure goes through and the debate is open about the law that you won't report for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17251	No, no, I'm talking now. Please, Mr. Chairman, I'm talking about clarity.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17252	No, you're talking about the law under the cloak of clarity.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17253	No, no, I'm saying, I'm explaining that this is not clear and that the condition is not met procedurally, sir. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17254	Wait a minute, please. I'm warning you that we're trying to talk procedure without you talking about the individual members under the clarity of the court, unless you have that wish.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17255	No, wait a minute. Very specifically, to read the article, it's three rows. Allow me, it's three rows.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17256	Do you read a member when you talk about procedure? It's not a problem, I mean, it's not a problem, everybody knows everything, nothing's hidden. All you can do is talk, we'll just reopen the replicator's salva. Wait a minute, please. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17257	I, Mr. Chairman, claim that the condition of the Rules of Procedure is not met that it is a clear matter. So, I speak very clearly.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17258	But you agreed it was urgent and that ended it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17259	No, no, wait a minute, we'll get to that. Let's finish this first. Please, because be careful, if it's unclear, it's a waste of his time. Because it's completely unclear, it introduces a new confusion and, to be very clear, I'm going to tell you about it now, so let me.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17260	No, no, I'll let you, but I'm asking you to spare all MPs here as far as the Rules of Procedure is concerned. So, in the Rules of Procedure, it's nice and nice that it's enough or one or the other by 127. You just said here in front of everyone that you agree that he's urgent. So it's enough. Now you want to explain whether it's simple or not. Feel free to explain but do not read the articles, we will come safely to the debate about all the laws, then you will have the opportunity to talk about all the members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17261	So, I read, very clearly: After the entry into force of this law, all the laws relevant for the work of the body established by this law will be brought into line with the provisions of this law within six months of the entry into force of this law. In three rows you have five times the repetition of this law, which completely opens up manipulation of what you mean by this. This formulation actually speaks of that the law...not that, I say 66 is urgent and... but it is so vague that it opens up the possibility of further manipulation and therefore I do not think it should be discussed because it introduces new confusion into everything you've said. Thank you, Mr. Lozančić. This would have ended long ago if they'd released these three lines and this five times your repeat of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17262	Thank you. Dear Ambassador First Deputy Lozančić: Answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17263	This is, I must say, congratulating Mr Lagumdžija, because he has found ways along with all the businesses to bring in the procedure of answering the questions of MPs – MPs. But here, I don't mind. I have to say... I didn't expect anything else,...satisfying that you accepted my argument that it was an emergency law and a simple law. So you've accepted that the terms of Article 127 have been met that this law is being discussed. I can agree with you that certain provisions may not be clear to you, but when we come into the process of discussing the measure of the law, I am willing to explain any provision of this law if my bill comes to mind. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17264	Thank you. I don't have any more reports. Dear Lijanović, MP, come in. I apologize, please. I read this conclusion, so I got a little confused.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17265	I understand, Mr. President, this is the kind of discussion that would throw everyone out of the loop. Actually, if it wasn't sad, it would be really funny. Here, I just wanted to say a few words: that we don't spend any more time on this, that the ruling six sits down, essentially, offers a solution that suits and adopts and that we go on working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17266	Thank you. The Honorable Messenger of the Okolić had a discussion or a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17267	I give up. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17268	Thank you. Since we're done and no more reported, I'm closing the argument with the eighth point and giving a break until 5:00 p.m. for lunch, where, at 4:30 p.m., the presidents of all clubs will have an extended college here in the next room. [[PAUZA]] We've held consultations at an extended college. I can let you know that we've been discussing how this session continues. We have found that it takes some time for further consultation on the laws that we have just concluded the debate. The proposal is to continue today's session and work today until 17:45, asking MPs and the entire College, and the Expansive College agreed, that today we are only doing these laws that are in the second reading. They're simple, they don't require much discussion, they don't have amendments. The principles of these laws have already been discussed and that tomorrow at 10 we begin with the seventh item of the agenda, i.e. with, just a little bit, the 13th point of the agenda – the laws on conflict of interest that are in the first reading. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17274	As far as both of these laws are concerned, I think there's one deep formula that we can't fix by repairing this law. We're going to have to do this by correcting some other laws that give discretion to the director of OSA to assess the danger to the security and security of the state. And on this basis, it removes people from BiH, bans them from staying in BiH. So I think we have these days had a reaction from the Helsinki Committee here for human rights, which rightly notices that... people's fates are decided without their ability to answer. So this will have to be done to allow people to defend themselves. Yes, it does not comply with standards and human rights conventions, as it is now regulated in BiH, but it is not the subject of this law. It's just getting through, that anomaly is getting in the way of this law. Well, I feel obliged to draw attention to that. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17275	Thank you. We didn't get any amendments. This can be the topic of discussion of the House of Nations so that they can either adopt these laws in a different text or that the amendments to this law are subsequently made. I don't have any more charges to argue with. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda: Ad. 12. Proposal for a Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (second reading) I remind you, at the 18th session of the Code Proposal, we adopted it in our first reading. On 28 March 2008, the Human Rights Commission submitted a proposal for a Code of Conduct with Intended Amendments adopted by the Competent Commission. So, you got the consolidated text after the amendment was adopted. I have no record of any amendments here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17277	There is. Jerko he defends two amendments in the plenary phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17278	So, in the plenary phase, honourable MP Ivanković Lijanović has two amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17279	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I believe that those who have worked on this code have spent a lot of time doing something good but some things have been regulated quite indicatively, which will obviously cause us problems in application. For that reason, I insisted that I renew these two amendments. The amendment is to delete the second sentence in Article 10, which reads: The elected officials will not take part in the debate and vote on issues in which they have direct or indirect interest. We in this room about every issue we're talking about have a direct or indirect interest, because they wouldn't say we don't have an interest in talking at all, but this was either to be more precise about saying they have a financial interest, they do, so which interest is it, and that it is possible to protect that interest. Likewise, in amandman II.. in Article 12, paragraph (1) is deleted by the same principle where it is prohibited to vote and speak in the interest of individuals in the interest of a group of individuals and we practically all speak in the interest of individuals and groups of individuals, we advocate farmers, persons with disabilities, unemployed, pensioners, these are all groups of individuals. We speak here on behalf of our parties, which is again a group of individuals and we directly represent the interests of the party. So if these two amendments were not adopted by 70, we will practically have a situation for each representative to object that he spoke in his own interest, which is normal but, in fact, by code, he should be sanctioned because he spoke in interest because we all speak in the interest of being re-elected tomorrow. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17280	Thank you. No more reports. Dear Ambassador Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17281	I thank you, Chairman. I think – and here I have signed up electronically and it probably doesn't work for you – I personally think that the Code of Conduct, in addition to the Rules of Procedure that we have, as long as it is necessary or not, each of us as an MP comes with our own traits that people voters recognized through the party and through it as a person, with their culture, with our own behavior, with our own way of working, and I think that we are otherwise inclined to pre-administrate certain things and it seems to me to limit something that, in my opinion, was not necessary. But here's most of them think it's something to do, and then I'm going to bow down to that majority. What I wanted to present now as a problem, I don't know if anyone can explain to me here: a member of the 19th proposing committee or an MP, I don't know who it is, that elected officials, means they will try to prevent the existence of administrative staff that... are not based on the principles of professional skills etc. I don't think we're setting up any administrative staff and this, and the elected officials in the definition say that these MPs and delegates have been elected, and I think this article 19 is completely unnecessary to stand in the Code of Conduct alongside these other things that are here. Or maybe it is, to explain who's proposing this, what, what's this about?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17282	Thank you. I think maybe the formulation could have been more precise. There's a couple of clubs that have been hiring, working at a club, secretaries. So it's also administrative staff, although it doesn't fall under the Administrative Service Act, but it's hired by Members' clubs to work with them. And that's where he was, yes. Dear MP Zorić, pa Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17283	I have to admit that this is one of the few laws that I haven't read in detail and I haven't taken too much...respect, because I've read it a yearly and it's been done to me like that. But now that I hear and Mr Lijanović has read it, I must say that with all that I support when a codet like this is passed, it is not good by any act or law to make provisions that the MP has no right to debate and vote. And in that sense, 71 I support this amendment by Mr. Jerka Ivanković Lijanović, because then MPs do not have equal rights, and that is not good in any parliament, in any body, at the end of the day. This is what I had to say, because it really is a precedent that some questions, regardless of what issues, the MP does not have the right to debate and vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17284	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Džaferović was. A replica, an incorrect quote or a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17285	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17286	Okay. Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17287	I would first like to say that when it comes to this code that there are certain things that are well-determined in this document, and I would especially like to highlight this section that concerns the behaviour of elected officials. Namely, this code, among other things, predicts, say, under g) that MPs should not use cell phones at a session. This code, if adopted, implies that future MPs are not allowed to speak against a person, interrupt a speaker, or otherwise disrupt the course of the session. This code stipulates that expressions and words that may offend or degrade another and different, expressions or their synonyms must no longer be used, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And on my own behalf and on behalf of the MPs of the SDP, I would like to welcome such provisions in this code. It would be good if we, whether or not, applied them, had this code passed today in Parliament. Article 13 speaks of a ban on corruption. Here you see, I'm saying that...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17288	Please don't throw it away. ...this code should be prescribed and Mr. Bahtić uses the last seconds past this code to address but well. Wait a minute, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17290	We will endure this item of the agenda, and expect from the next item of the agenda that Mr. Bahtić will fit into the gauges of the new code. 72 So I think, when it comes to banning corruption, that this thing is so clear, so precise that I don't even know if it's necessary to appear in this code. Next, in Article 21. Relations with the media. In attitude (2), he would state this, and he would especially ask us to consider whether this is the right provision. The position (2) of this member, he says: When giving information to the media, the elected official will be managed by the adopted positions of Parliament and the working bodies in which he participated, and in the event of disagreement he can also get acquainted with his own position. There's one problem here, at least for opposition parties. In fact, very often we do not agree with the parliamentary majority. If this were to be applied exactly as it is, is it mentioned in that case, we would first have to familiarize the media with the majority's position, and then eventually with our position. I suggest we delete this position (2).
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17291	How are we gonna do that?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17292	I suggest we delete it completely.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17293	How are we going to do this? It's about the amendments?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17294	Here, I'm putting it in right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17295	It's not new moments, it's the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17296	If we have to, and we're going to write it, it's not a problem, but, therefore, I suggest you delete this position (2). I must remind myself that I was really against this attitude during the debate at the commission stage, because I think this provision is hard to find in...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17297	Please just listen a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17298	Yeah. A provision like this, you know what it's like with the media. Get 40-50 seconds in some journal, you, are, from the opposition, you get 10-15 seconds. In those 15 seconds, you still need to explain what the parliamentary majority has concluded, for example. So there's really a lot of reasons why this needs to be erased. In the case of types of measures to violate the code, three types of measures are listed here. But what's the problem is that here in Article 23, there's talk of minor injuries and serious injuries, that this code didn't specify exactly what minor violations of the code are, what are more serious violations of the code, which would be good, if we didn't leave a lot of maneuver space to interpret this as anyone wants or how he thinks it is. 73 Also, when it comes to Article 24. The jurisdiction and the right to appeal, it says here that the implementation and monitoring of the application of this code is the responsibility of the Joint Committee for Human Rights. I must say, although I am a member of this committee, that I am not in favour of the Commission for Human Rights having that mandate, nor am I in favour of any commission in this House. So that's my opinion. And this amendment for attitude (2), here's what I'm going to do, to the act of voting, to deliver it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17299	Thank you. I warn the MPs, meaning we are in the second reading, that the amendments are over, that there are only two amendments to Mr Lijanović and that there are no new amendments. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17300	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, although it is not an amendment but I cannot say it, is it, for example, one very important thing, nor is it a matter of this code, but I think it is closely related to this code but I cannot not say it, following today the entire course of this session that, for example, in my opinion, it would not be in line with the code of conduct of Members to behave in one way when there is a direct television transmission of this session, and in a very different way when there is no direct televised session of the Parliamentary Assembly because, obviously, the fact of direct television transmission, it should of course be used by us as elected officials, but, it seems to me, that it is quite misused here in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. And that's why I'm one of the few people who has reserves when it comes to direct transmission, until we sort out our behavior. This is what I needed to say and it's not about my discussion of this code, I couldn't help but say it. I got up here to draw attention to the amendments tabled by Mr. Lijanović. These amendments concern the provisions of the codes directly related to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in BiH Authorities. And, therefore, I call on Parliament to carefully consider both amandman I. and amandman II.. and if it brings them into contact with existing existing solutions concerning the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in BiH Authorities, and these solutions will remain, the next point is actually this law, and remain as solutions both under amended and updated law, then they will be able to clearly conclude that such amendments cannot be accepted. What exactly is this about? In amandman I., Mr Lijanović suggests that Article 10 of the conflict of interest deletes a second sentence, which reads: The elected officials will not participate in the debate and vote on issues in which they have direct or indirect interest. Mr. Lijanović suggests that it should be deleted. This article reads: When elected officials have a direct or indirect personal interest in issues which Parliament or the institutions of the executive authorities are considering, they will do everything to make these interests known before debate and voting. And of course, part two, another sentence proposed by Mr Lijanović to delete is: The elected officials will not participate in the debate and vote on issues in which they have a direct or indirect interest. 74 So, this is about the personal direct or indirect interest, and it is a fundamental rule everywhere in the world, in any kind of procedure, and in the judicial and administrative procedure, and, among other things, in the parliamentary procedure, that the person to whom the particular matter applies, and which is related to his direct or indirect personal interest, is exempt from voting, and that before that, he informs the others who will decide what is on the matter. This thing exists also in the Law of Conflict of Interest and I think it is very dangerous to exclude this provision from the Code. It should be an integral part of the code of conduct. amandman II. says Article 12(1) deletes and, watch out, Article 12 says: When using its powers, elected officials will not take advantage of themselves any direct or indirect advantage either to individuals or groups of individuals and, watch out now, to give priority to the objective of obtaining direct or indirect benefits. So here's the accent for direct or indirect benefit, and this is completely, totally normal for a provision like this to stand here in this code. In other words, if a situation arises in this House as it occurred in the earlier period, when decisions of the Council of Ministers and concerning specific matters were confirmed, e.g. The distribution of those quotas in various kinds of meat, then it's logical that whoever participates later in these competitions and says honestly: "People, I'm here but I'm not there, I'm going out, please make a decision." And it's not moral for him to participate in making such a decision. So that's the point. I had to give this one example that we had in the previous meeting, in the past term of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. But on this subject and other topics, it follows us tomorrow as you announced, whether the first reading of a very interesting law, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in BiH Authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17301	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lijanović: incorrect quote, replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17302	Maybe it's an incorrect quote. Mr. Džaferović has now spoken in his own interest and has essentially broken this Rules of Procedure because it is his interest to try to explain something legally in the way he sees it. There's a little confusion going on here. The Law on conflict of interest speaks of financial interest, and it is quite fine as regulated by the Law on Conflict of Interest, but these are two completely different things, and it is well regulated in the first sentence of article 10, which reads: When elected officials have a direct or indirect personal interest in issues which the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH or the Executive Authority is considering, they will do everything to make these interests known before the debate and vote. I think that sentence solves the essence, that basically we act publicly, that the public evaluates our work and all the actions we do and that it is made public. And if this second sentence is specific about what interest it is, whether it's about the financial interest, whether it's about any other interest, then it might be accepted, but basically, deny the representatives to speak in their own interest, so we're not allowed to say anything here, we're not allowed to suggest anything. The appointment of us to the commission is our interest, because we have certain incomes in 75 commissions. So we won't be able to name ourselves as commissions at all. We are already entering a major problem, and the main thing is how it was regulated by the code and how it was regulated by the Law of Conflict of Interest. As regulated by the Ineres Conflict Act, it is possible to implement it. And this how he regulated the code, so it's impossible to implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17303	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Džaferović: a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17304	Col. Ivanković, You, if you delete this sentence that elected officials will not participate in the debate and vote on issues in which they have a direct or indirect interest, you will bring...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17305	Just a little quiet, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17306	...you will position the MPs, therefore, because this is the code of conduct of parliamentarians, to enter a zone that is outside of financial interest because the Law on conflict of interest, I agree with you, it prohibits the conduct of financial interest. So, you're going to bring into one forbidden zone that is therefore of interest but it's not a financial interest and if you delete this sentence, then things are going to stay that way, for example, that we're going to have as a legal thing for Members to gain any other benefits and interests both to ourselves and to others, unless they're financial. You'll admit that there's a lot of them, that there's a lot of them, and that thing has to be arranged. I thought it over before I got up and said what I said. You can't delete this from this code. I will only get to know you that every MP or representative, however you like, has the rights and obligations, therefore the rights and obligations prescribed by the Constitution of BiH and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, any conduct, and the Electoral Law, of course, under these rights and obligations, is allowed to act. It's the usual course of action, however you like. Every exit from that zone, when we talk about these sensitive things, and it's not about the financial interest, and it may look like interest and some benefit, is a restricted area for MPs, and that's the task of this code. And I ask you to withdraw your amendment. No Niko prevents you from representing the interests here, from acting as you are prescribed by the Election Law, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. This doesn't apply here to what your right and my right and all of us as MPs. That's the problem. Because, look, you're leaving things in half here. He says, you leave the provision that he is obliged to inform his colleagues that publicly, it remains in Article 10. You leave it, you ask to delete the second sentence, and then this second part, as far as the consequences are concerned, are asking to be deleted. The same thing is true with this article, the position (1) of Article 12 of this Code. That's it. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17307	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lijanović, you may need this, this is your second replica, to wait for everything and finally say it. Dear Messenger Okolić, then Ahmetović, and Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17308	Dear President, it may be somewhat true that Mr. Zorić said that we have been dealing with some other interventional matters and laws, less dealing with this code, and here, it is visible from this story to all of us that there may be something that needs to be changed here, but business is not possible today, because no amendments have been tabled. And about these discussions show that somewhere... something can be arranged and mentioned in this text. This text, the subject of the conduct of... MPs, is not at all controversial, because it has so far been in force and through the vision of ethics, customs, norms of morality, bontons, etc. And all this stuff here that's been listed, it wasn't allowed until now, unless it's being broken. And to me, this is essential, and that is, measures to break the codes that I am mentally supporting and that I should leave behind, but since this is really one document that can cause certain doubts and problems in the further work, for now it may seem harmless, but that may be so, my proposal would be, if most of us accept it, that we do not reject this once again, or that this will probably still be, I see by the reported discussion, and that we may argue about some things here, and the amendments have not been submitted, to return this commission to the possible investment of any amendments and perhaps repair of this code of conduct, in order to get to the best of quality. That's my final proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17309	Thank you. I warn MPs that you have two ways to submit new amendments to the Rules of Procedure, if they are new questions. The law has passed all possible procedures, no new aspects, and if a compromise solution is sought, there are no other amendments to the compromise solution, except those that the honourable MP has submitted to the Rules of Procedure and to the Rules of Procedure so far. Therefore, we are here in business clear. Dear Ambassador Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17310	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm not going to say anything special about this code because this story about making the code itself takes a long time and there's no reason to explain it now, so. But, in the very creation of this code, we went so wide that, all this time, we had room for all, all the colleagues, all the institutions that have different kinds of objections, to influence the text, and so we could, even before the first reading, when we made the first draft of this code, to send all MPs to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to comment before the first question, so before that. It was 77 and the time of the summer break, so... enough time to eventually come up with those proposals. Unfortunately, in that time, we did not get any comments on the first draft of the Code proposal and he entered the first reading, so we came to this stage in the amendment phase, the stage of the commission itself, the last commission, when we were considering the amendment fellow MPs. We tried to work in such a way that the more amendments we accepted, so that this code could get as much support as possible in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. And I can only thank this occasion those who have made their contribution to this final stage when we need to decide today whether or not we will have a code, so the Centre of Civil Initiatives, the OSCE, the NDE, all, so to the MPs who participated in the work in drawing up this code. And just, therefore, one note in the end, that we are within the commission that has both segment or word ethics, so from that point of view you must observe this role of the Commission for Human Rights, not for human rights, but the Commission for... ethics in this case and so should be observed and this proposal that goes therefore has this first degree competence when it comes to the Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17311	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17312	Thank you. I am glad that today has finally come the proposal for a code of conduct of MPs and delegates in this assembly. I have an obligation to say after my colleague Bećirović's exposure, he's happy too. The man only read a few things that suit him, and I'll read the same few things that I, the chairman, will keep warning you, if you don't follow. Number (a) from these a) to m) SDP breaks, only two do not break. Number (a) Selected officials are required to attend regularly meetings of parliamentary committees and working bodies. We know how many SDP presidents are coming to Parliament, taking pictures, an hour or two...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17313	You don't have to, we don't have to personally.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17314	...time... breaks, and on committees not to speak. Of the 25 commissions, on two he was, for one 10 minutes, on one half hour. He must not leave the session during address. Even an anthem when leaving her, not a session. He's not answering at all, he's going there a little bit. Because that's what you need to know. And that's the code of conduct. They should avoid making statements. They don't do anything else, come here, take a picture, go there, make some statements that have nothing to do with what we're doing here. It's all a violation of the code. I'll follow it all. Every session and I'll warn everyone. I'll get in the gauge, what do you say, framed but you'll have to, too, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17315	Wait a minute. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17316	You can't.../unreasonable stories/ backs turn to the chairman, which is normal, and I used to do that, I'll behave in the future, so okay. That SDP does and must not discuss... a session unless necessary. They talk about it all the time, they get it, it's like this is a party, a bus stop, believe you know... a discussion. They can't speak against... interrupting the speaker. They do it all the time, even though I'm not paying attention to it, but I'm going to be paying attention in the future, using expressions, not to say, is the only thing you seem to take this code literally, so you'd rather... keep my mouth shut here. Well, you won't be able to do that. I'm still an MP. This is where the people chose me. I have the right to speak the facts and the truth. No one can forbid that. You know what the code is, and I thank you. I'm glad he's here. And I will, believe me, follow him every session and bring him here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17317	Thank you. I don't have any more discussions. There is a need for honourable MP Lijanović to use another option to correct the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17318	I just want to explain once again what it says here, and in some way we wouldn't get into some demagogue that we're prescribing something that we're going to constantly violate and convince someone that it's not like that. I highly appreciate my colleague Džaferović and his knowledge and advocacy in regulating all things in this Parliamentary Assembly but here, both times when he spoke he directly violated this code because he spoke in his own interest. He didn't speak in my interest. And I spoke in my own interest, and I took precedence over him, and by this code, it was forbidden. By code, he had to speak in my interest because he must not speak in his own interest. And vice versa, I had to speak in his interest, not in his own interest. So I'm asking you not to get into a situation where at the next session we have 100 complaints of a code breach, so we don't have any need for that. I think it is quite enough that through the first sentence everything is clearly defined, that it is sufficiently regulated by the Law on conflict of interest and clearly specified how and how we can behave. But again, you have a majority, you can bring this in, and then we'll warn at each session one hundred complaints about a violation of the code if it's in the interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17319	Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17320	You see, Mr Lijanović's amendment refers to Article 10, and Article 9 said that we should not represent if it is our interests and I think that Article 10, proposal by Mr Lijanović, should only be corrected in that the MP should not vote and 79 should participate in the debate. I think he should take part in the debate to explain the matter and if he could just, and he can't vote, and then that's something that gives quality. So you can state your views and opinions, and when you vote, you'll come out, if I have an interest, I'll go out, you vote, and whatever the vote is. Therefore, I would ask you, if we can agree here to correct this amendment X. in that sense, means that you can argue, you have the right but you have no right to vote if you already said it was of your own interest. I don't think it's moral, and that's why I think that amendment could be accepted with this correction. As for Article 12, I don't think we're having any issues, Article 12 with your amendment, but in Article 10, I like that you're taking part in the debate, but that really any of us are discussing what, and that we're not taking part in the vote when it comes to our own interest, which is said in Article 9.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17321	Thank you. We'll have a chance to do this, given that the complementary topics are tomorrow in the first reading of the Law of Conflict of Interest, because these substances match a lot and maybe tomorrow we'll see how contradictory that law is by itself where each of us can say that this other has an interest in any matter to discuss, or vote. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17322	I know business this could be a problem. But I think it's better if we clear this thing up, so in the code, and I even think we can find a business opportunity in article 109 and Article 76 that just once again, these remarks, we can consider the commission. It's more clear to say, nothing else, some questions. Because, look, here's what I'm asking myself. Can we adopt the pay law? Look, anyone can interpret that we have our own interest in that pay law there, because that's where our pay is defined. Therefore, it is necessary to make it more clear. Niko one argues here that someone with a personal, financial interest in some business, etc. He shouldn't be involved in this debate and here I am for it and not to take part in the vote. But it has to be more specific in the code. There were these remarks. I don't see why it would be a problem for us, let's say, here's what we're going to do to get this back to the commission, the commission will take a stenogram, notice these remarks, have some more amendments, and bring a code that won't be controversial for anyone. And we all want this code, so we all want it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-02-0.u17323	Thank you. Since there are no more reports and since I have already explained that tomorrow in the debate on the Law of Conflict of Interest, we can come up with some new knowledge that would refer us to this code of conduct, you deliver your proposal in writing and we will find, as always, in this 80 Parliament – although we cannot call once for the Rules of Procedure to be broken, and the second time we call for a little bypass – we will find ways to get the best code of conduct that is enforceable. This concludes the debate and tomorrow at 10.00 we continue to work in Parliament. The seat was interrupted at 17:45.
