ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20620	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I ask you to take your seats to continue our work. I welcome you all together. We continue the work of the 35th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives. All regular guests invited to our sessions have been informed about continuing the session. I would like to konstatirati that 31 MPs are present at the session's follow-up session. They have rightly announced their absence today: First Vice-President Beriz Belkić, Honorable Representatives Mirko Okolić and Hadži Jovan Mitrović and Honorable Representative Azra Alajbegović, while the delay was announced by distinguished representative Vinko Zorić. I remind you, we interrupted the first part of the 35th session after discussing the seventh item of the agenda. I would also like to remind you that after one part of the debate on the fifth point of the proposal for a law on witness protection programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we voted first in favour of whether we would discuss the bill further without the presence of an authorised representative, i.e. Council of Ministers. The House has pleaded against the debate without the presence of a proposing representative. Since I don't see a proposing representative at this point, we'll continue to work on the eighth point of the agenda. I expect that during today's session, a representative of the proposing will appear on the fifth point and we will return to the fifth item of the agenda. Moving to the eighth point of the adopted agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Enabling of Obligations on the basis of an old foreign savings account – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) In 18.8.2008 the Council of Ministers delivered the draft law from this point in the procedure, with a request to be considered by a hasty or a shortened procedure. After being asked by the Council of Ministers to specify exactly what procedure it is requesting, the Council of Ministers requested a shortened procedure on August 28th. 2 At the 34th session, the House adopted a request for a shortened procedure. The home was designated by the Finance and Budget Committee as the competent authority. The Constitutional Commission, as of 11 September, concluded that there was a valid constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. The Commission submitted its opinion on the principles on 18 September. As you have seen, the opinion supports the principles of the proposed proposal for this law. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Does the Proposer want a representative? Here we have Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury of Honored Fuad Kasumović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20622	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, in the meantime, there have been some things that I am obliged to meet. So, the BiH Constitutional Court, I am sorry to say, has made a decision that is contrary to the decisions of the BiH Court of Human Rights and the BiH House of Human Rights. I'll tell you how it happened. So, on the basis of a ruling by the Court of Human Rights and the House of Human Rights, the Council of Ministers was tasked with making a law on the reconciliation of old foreign currency savings uniformly across the BiH territory. The Council of Ministers has done so in the last term. The Council of Ministers' meeting and this parliament adopted amendments and additions. As long as it was done, so we didn't have any objections from any entity, because ultimately those funds are being returned to entities and when everything was ready, on 31 March of this year to issue bonds, the RS issued its bonds for RS territory. Meanwhile, the finance ministry has made an appeal, followed by two members of the BiH Constitutional Court presidency. The Constitutional Court extended it all, and three or four days ago, it made this decision which, according to us, is contrary to the BiH Court's ruling, which ordered us to unanimously resolve it. And now we have one problem that we don't know how to solve. We've scheduled all relevant from this state and entity and OHR tomorrow to see what we do now. The RS has issued bonds and is already trading with them, etc., etc. The finance ministry doesn't want to be, it doesn't want to do the job for the Federation because we're in charge of BiH. So by tomorrow we won't know what to do, how. And vaguely, I repeat, so the Constitutional Court has brought such a thing, it's unclear to us, and we're not lawyers, and we're not going to do that. The essence of these changes and additions, I don't know how much they're going to drink, they're going to water after, because apparently entities are going to settle it, so past the ruling of the BiH Court of Justice. We are in this way, because old foreign savings are private property and people so that those who were either deceived or refused to verify their foreign savings, and we are also a commission, which is both home and home of the people, to solve this issue. On their proposal, we've made an extension of that verification. Because if there's no additional deadline, the people who didn't verify themselves, they'll, they'll have to go to courts, pay lawyers, and so on. And it's undeniable that it's their private property, that they'll get it. So I'm asking you to support this to allow more people, so those who haven't verified their savings can verify it. You've seen in the proposal how long it's been, but now we've put in since the law was passed, so when it's published and only then. Because last time we had, so we got tied to the date and it was a little late for adoption. And then we adopted the maltenes today, and by tomorrow, it was the right verification. This will not hurt anyone, in this way we 3 entities say that the agencies that carry out the verification to extend that deadline in order to save or save BiH citizens to save them from courts to go to pay lawyers, etc., and the state, in the end, the state has to settle it. When I say state, I mean entities because they pay for it. Thank you, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20623	Thank you. I'll let you know I've already registered a number of registered speakers. I'm going to ask you all together to sign up electronically and sign up for the debate and be patient – I'm saying this, I'm asked from the technical service – until the microphone is turned on. So the order in which you signed up electronically, you'll get the word. The first registered representative, Husein Nanić, and let the distinguished representative Velimir Jukić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20624	Wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20625	So Mr. Nanić didn't sign up. The next is the distinguished representative Velimir Jukić, and let the distinguished representative Branko Dokić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20626	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, guests, here's the deputy minister talking about a new situation relating to old foreign currency savings, and those legal aspects. And I really have to say that I'm surprised by this situation, too, so when we have the views of competent courts, or judgments that are a little out of line and contradictory. However, the situation is what it is. I will talk about another dimension, which is the fact that somewhere according to media writing, and according to statements from representatives of the Association of Old Foreign Savings, around eight thousand BiH citizens have already sued BiH. But BiH, not entities, but BiH for the compensation of old foreign savings to the Strasbourg Court! What does that mean? I think the debate on this is to lead a little bit and it's not good if we don't have a representative of the BiH Attorney General here. So, to tell us his opinion, his position, his position, the institution's position on the status and outlook of these lawsuits, because it's not a small number. Furthermore, I also think it would be good if the representatives of the Association were here, that they would inform us about that – how many BiH citizens cost these eight thousand lawsuits? Of course, every lawsuit is in suspense in terms of what the verdict would be, for the benefit or for the harm of the one who triggered it. However, I certainly believe... that it was not necessary to come to these charges, that a solution should be sought under existing laws or any amendments and additions to existing laws. But obviously we've already missed that chance. 4 About the law itself, I'll say a few words. I think it is good to extend the deadline to an additional two months and plus, in the second point of this article, that entities and Brcko District can also be done on the basis of their knowledge, analysis, etc. The new deadlines must be set which must end by 31.12.2010, so from today to 26 months and several months. So here, it seems to me, the proposer started acting a little bit and pragmatic, which is also logical, because respecting the new facts and realities, and these are that a significant number of people who own an old foreign savings account has not been verified. Unfortunately, we do not have as much information as it is in absolute terms and percent, which would be very, very important information for our quality debate on this subject. And also, respecting the fact that RS has already accepted this commitment and broadcast bonds. They are already traded in public and in what people will, so they sell them according to agreement and trade among them, and also through the stock market in Banja Luka. I think that, in order for us to be here, we have this information, so that we can discuss this more qualityly and discuss it, and we also have very contradictory information from the old foreign savings associations about this whole process, from how much debt is totaled to how much old foreign savings have been verified so far, or how much, etc. And I think we have too little information for a quality debate. Also, I'm going to repeat what I've said several times about this subject. I think there is also one campaign left this time, or a high-quality story and a debate on this issue, so that all interested and old foreign exchanges, as well as BiH citizens, will be informed of the real situation in this issue. And I'm afraid, and I'm that convinced that there's still a lot of false, false information, a little bit of manipulation, because how else do we explain the fact that we have information that differs, I don't know either, from the fact that virgin savings is some kind of X, and others as if XXX, to the fact that, I don't know, I don't know, 80% of the owner of foreign savings has been verified, to say that neither do I, 20%, etc., etc. So the information of one or the other is completely, completely different and actually often the opposite. Also, a little talk about the responsibilities of those who have led our citizens to say in such a large number, I would say mass, go with lawsuits against BiH, without contesting their right to do so. However, if uncertainty is high, that is, the likelihood of these judgments being positive for them, they must have exposed themselves to one great expense, in return they can get about nothing but what is in force and foreseen by law. Thus, in that amount, compensation, i.e. the payment of their rights on the basis of foreign exchange savings. So, I didn't say anything new except that we lack information and that it would be good if we had all this information and then we could have a better conversation and then possibly even this offered solution, which, I say, is good, maybe, even complement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20627	I thank the esteemed representative Jukić. The next one was announced by the distinguished representative Branko Dokić, and may the distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković be prepared. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20628	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, here you have heard the Deputy Minister that there are new moments on this issue and we have always had some new moments on this issue. Therefore, in order not to take much of your time, my proposal, as president of a special commission,... which was formed by both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly with the mandate to check some of the issues related to the old foreign savings, I suggest, once again, I propose, as Branko Dokić, president of this commission, and not as a commission, because we have not met in the meantime -- that this law is withdrawn, not only because of these new moments, which are creating a second position now, but to wait for the report of this commission that will be completed by the end of this month, I hope. We only got the information we asked for a few days ago, here's the time, we finally completed it, and we'll be able to get out with one report. This report will point to the real problem of verification of old foreign savings, what they have suggested saves, and I think it will be a new proposal that will be able to, hopefully, be acceptable and save old foreign savings. So to make a short story, this home together with the House of People has formed a commission, the commission has been working, we've split up the work at the end to make a report. By the end of this month, the report will be completed, and then it is an opportunity to address these issues a little bit more fully, to look for the answers he warned and pointed out by Mr Jukić. So either to withdraw or to Parliament simply reject this law in the first reading. The fact is, I must admit, that after our first meeting, this commission, where we had a conversation with representatives of the finance ministry, the Council of Ministers of BiH, has been suggested to further the verification of the old foreign savings. But we worked on it, and then we realized really that, here at that first meeting, we didn't see the wholeness of the problem that's really connected to this, and that's why I wouldn't want to talk about all the details and elements right now. That's why my position is like that, and I think I share it with almost all or most of the members of this committee. In parallel with this proposal, so on the withdrawal of this law, I would go with one initiative that you will receive in writing, and this initiative comes down to suggest that this home suggests, that the recommendation, better said, to recommend to the entity governments that all savings from old foreign savings as one-off aid, now for this next winter period and all that is related to it, be paid by 1,500 euros, or 3,000 marks. You'll get that as a special initiative, unrelated to this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20629	I thank the esteemed representative Dokić. The following is announced by Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković, and may the distinguished representative Selim Bešlagić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20630	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, esteemed guests! 6 See, I won’t talk much about this law because so far I have debated many times and I think attitudes, both my and the SDS Club, about this law are known to everyone. What I now have as a dilemma, and I would like the deputy minister to answer me, are these amendments to the law. In fact, the amendments to the Law in one part concern only deadlines, and it would not be disputed to extend deadlines, allowing those who did not do so to do so. Well, I think we have a problem: amending Article 23c. in Article 1, where it is said: 'Obligations based on old foreign exchange savings, which are subsequently verified and not paid in cash, shall be settled through bonds under the conditions prescribed by this law, which will be issued no later than 31 March of the following year compared to the year in which the verification was carried out.' If the RS issues bonds independently of this law, what does a member of the law that says they will be broadcast by 31 March at the latest? If we cannot influence, and it is obvious that we cannot influence this decision of the Constitutional Court, decisions, the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that is, in the way and procedure of resolving this issue in the RS, then this article does not make sense. On the other hand, the dilemmas which are subsequently verified shall remain if they are in Article 23.b. says that within two months after the verification procedure has been carried out, each individual will be paid an amount of 1,000 KM. So, everyone who's looking under Article 23b. The amendment of Article 23b will be made, and then it will be said: those who are subsequently verified and not paid in cash will be made bonds. Because of this fact, it means because of this, because of a rather vague member of the 23rd c., but also because of the facts spoken by his colleague Dokić, which is that we have formed a commission or working group that should give in the final really serious data, and also the proposals related to this, I am joining in thinking that today we should take this off the agenda, or that today, if nothing, we are not explaining this until some things are fully clarified and we get a report from this working group. We won't be late if we do this in 30 days, not today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20631	I would like to thank Reverend Novaković. The next is distinguished representative Selim Bešlagić, and let the distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20632	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I must say, I have no old foreign currency savings and I am not burdened by these questions. But a large number of citizens who have this savings are interested and I think that here is the debate that was being held here will go in that direction, which is also following the interpretation of the Assistant Minister that there has been a contradiction between the Constitutional Court and the Court of BiH, probably, to go to the point that if the Proposer can withdraw that law until these issues are resolved or any other questions are resolved. However, I would like to ask the promoter one question. - Is this law passed in this House valid for the BiH state and is it applied? 7 According to indicators, it has not been applied and is being partially managed in Republika Srpska, and in part or in no way in the Federation. The second question I would like to ask is precisely the work of this commission that Mr Dokić said. It was formed in December 2007. - Is there a report here in the material we received, because it was said that the report was submitted to the Council of Ministers, so the Council of Ministers proposes, but here, as we can see, the minister, or this commission, did not submit this report? In other words, we don't know what this is about. Why am I saying that? I'm talking about having some information that, for example, They say that out of the total savings, which was on, in banks in BiH at the time, more than two-thirds has not been recorded. And, if you have a Constitutional Court ruling that the records have stopped and no more records, then this law would literally deny me this court's decision to extend that record. The second problem that arises here, by applying this law to the RS, I ask the question. - Did the Federation agree to accept this law, in that sense, that entities would repay it? That's what I'm saying because the indicator that speaks to the Federation's obligations, says that the Federation is bound by these obligations, according to the savings, is 1,900,000 of which, according to the indicators, only 344,000 million million are recorded, which means 961,000,000 million million million are recorded, or other words I put in place that there are more who will go to court than will be realised by this law. And finally, another question -- by transferring the obligation to return to entities, we remove one heavy obligation, but the obligation that BiH is in fact obliged to return foreign exchange savings, but it is said from what and how. For these reasons, I believe that the proposals that went towards this law being removed until the resolution of these issues, in particular the debate between the Constitutional Court and the Court of Justice of BiH, which means that they are specifically different, diametrically, I am also in favour of the motion that the motionor withdraws this law, that this commission submits this report and that the Council of Ministers, based on all these indicators, try to give a solution that would satisfy, above all, saves which are mostly, in this case, damaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20633	I thank the esteemed representative Bešlagić. The following has been announced by distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović, and may the distinguished representative Sadik Bahtić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20634	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, we have a great injustice here against a large number of citizens of this country, because BiH has taken over rights and obligations, 18 years of consumption of rights, and obligations, unfortunately, do not comply. I'm going to tell an example that can paint the relationship to foreign currency savings. When two people were wearing furniture on the 11th floor and the stairs were very narrow, the stairs were high and on the 7th floor they sat down to a little 8 rest, because they were too tired, and one told the other that there was two news, one was sad, and one was joyful. This one said don't give me that sad one, give me joy. What? He says, we only have four floors left and we're done. Come on, he says, who's sad now, when we're so close to the finish line, tell us? He says we missed the entrance, we have to go back to the ground floor, to the other building, and to the 11th floor. I think that with the old foreign savings in BiH we missed the entrance, we have to go back to the beginning and try to solve this in a fair way, in fact the way the International Court of Justice in Strasbourg does. I think we must not allow BiH citizens to have more protection from the International Court, but rather from their own Parliament, and money, objectively, is not a problem. If we look at our foreign trade deficit 10 billion we give to citizens of some other countries, if we look at our foreign trade policy that allows it, if we look at our tax policy to have at least the luxury taxes, even though we are the poorest country in the region, if we look at these bonds that we want to give to people who are mostly pensioners over 65 years old and we suggest that they trade on the market and markets with these bonds, then we can see what we are doing. If the state wants to make money or entities that way, then they should place those bonds on the market, sell them, take money bonds and pay people back their money, especially because that money won't leave this country. That money people get will mostly invest here. It will remain a new value that will run new processes. I therefore propose that this law also be rejected or withdrawn from the procedure and that the Council of Ministers, meaning return to the beginning and attempted by the Court of Justice to resolve this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20635	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Sadik Bahtić, and let the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20636	Thank you. I will present my position before the Finance Commission and the budget. The Commission has adopted this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Reconciliation on the basis of an old foreign savings account with five votes "for" and two votes "against". They were against the RS, which tells us that this law would probably not have passed at this parliament, and after all these new moments, as stated by counterpart, deputy minister, counterpart Kasumović. Also, I think it would be the smartest thing at this point for this law to be withdrawn, because I am a member of this committee, which is this Parliament... where Dokić is the chairman – we did not finish the work that was in charge of Parliament and the College. So our mission was to determine the total old foreign exchange savings, verification and deadline. We're on this committee, I think it's a unanimous view: that verification is a permanent, constant process, not two months. Most of them have objections to verification. So it's likely that this commission's report will be that verification is a constant process. 9 About the deadlines, we'll see, about nine years now, etc. And I think that based on all of this today, what's been said, the smartest thing is for this law to be withdrawn and once again by the Council of Ministers, and that this committee that's already worked four or five times, where all the ministries have come, both state and entity and Brcko, to make one report and on the basis of this report by the Council of Ministers to send one law and based on these amendments. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20637	I thank the esteemed representative of Bahtić. The following was announced by distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić, and may the distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20638	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished guests from NGOs, of course, and from the media, well, when we came to office in this House, this story about this old foreign currency savings began. I'm having the same dilemmas today as when I was talking. Here, we know how many savings we've had, here's a framework we know how much savings it's been. Are we ever gonna know who stole the foreign savings? Do we have institutions, or is it outdated, that would be involved in investigative activities? And it wasn't the air that was thicker and less rare around here. The foreign savings were in place. People have books, you know how many they had. We know everything, but we don't know who stole the foreign savings. This parliament cannot constantly carry a mortgage and attack by these NGOs that justifiably state that we do not allow the return of old foreign currency savings. I have never heard from colleagues in Parliament, not officially or unofficially, that they are against the return of old foreign currency savings, especially as it comes to persons who are at one age when they cannot do anything, when it is the only source of their survival. And this can't go on forever, no matter what law we pass on a proposal from the Council of Ministers or, I don't know, us here. So I suggested, remember, can BiH enter arbitration, when it can't make bilateral contacts with Slovenia, ask them where our money is. Well, every man sees it. She carried the Ljubljanska Banka of Money, opening, overrun BiH by buying various companies, opening the market. And some did, but let's not have our money, that's the problem. Next, we've heard constant media raids here, a lot of complaints in Strasbourg. As far as I understand all this, we would lose all these litigations and disputes if we didn't have a law at the level of the BiH state. So we don't need to be freaked out. But we don't have to sneak in and stall this story all the time and never pay people back. And now, of course, I'm going to be affirmative to say that the RS tried to solve it. But it's not possible to verify everything because it has a terrible blow from NGOs and representatives of old foreign savings that say - don't verify yourself because it's a new scam. Who's he cheating on more about? Do we really have the strength and will, whether there are legal possibilities, and I'm here in a dilemma, to be answered by someone: Is it too old for the organs of the SIPA and the D.A.'s office to get into that story when we know everything? I repeat, this is the key for me. And how many foreign savings do we have, and how much savings do we have in total? Will someone ever say, "I don't need it," but to tell the people - the old foreign savings were robbed by Slavko Jovičić, Janko Marković, and I don't know who! That's the point. Let's get out of there. We'll always spin round and round. 10 Of course, foreign savings are not satisfied. I've always given them support. Of course I didn't give it just when they threatened some explosives to blow up, to attack banks, us here. That was counterproductive. So that's how we couldn't get away with it, and that's why this is going round and round, here's two years. What do we do next? We'll withdraw the law today, or we'll suggest he withdraw. He's waiting for us again. So this committee's report. So what do we suggest again? So the BiH Court of Justice made one decision, the Constitutional Court, which again reached the country's highest court instance, made another. So it's traded on stock exchanges, as Mr. Bešlagić says, so this is done, so do it. So the foreign exchange savings were cheated at the beginning of what the tycoons took from them at the cost of foreign exchange savings, so they bought apartments, businesses, I don't know. Do we have the strength to see who cheated on them, besides that major fraud when they took away their foreign currency savings, not kidnapped but robbed, stole their foreign currency savings? Who, where's the money gone? It wasn't the yorgans, so he took his hand and ran. It's known that it's been verified somewhere, that it was somewhere in the safes, that it was recorded somewhere. Where are those records? So we will never get out of this, and someone will always be dissatisfied, until we propose to our competent institutions, not to order but to suggest that they get into that story more to see who it is. I repeat, that's the point. And what are the numbers? That's why no law that comes here to Parliament will pass this character. Not that we don't want to, we want to bring it, but there will always be old foreign currency savings for the reason that they attack us, that we won't. I say we will, but in what way. That's why it's illusory that we keep him in the process, he fell, he didn't fall, he came back, the Ministry gave one consent, the Constitutional Court like this, so I don't know how to get out of this. So please, let's give this committee a chance to do it, to come up with a proposal, if it's rational and see what we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20639	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović. Let the distinguished representative Bajazit Jašarević be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20640	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we have talked about this issue on many occasions so far, and I don't want this opportunity to repeat anything that has been said so far. So the attitudes are completely clear, familiar, I would say, defined and not worth wasting time on. However, in my discussion, I will try to say a few sentences concerning this latest situation that occurred after the Constitutional Court's decision. First of all, to say that the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected and there is no dilemma in that, but I call on Parliament and all of us here not to draw conclusions from the Constitutional Court Decision which may not be possible. I think we need to wait for the Constitutional Court's decision to see exactly what she's saying and only after that is to determine this issue. We, I don't know if anyone has more, but I only have one news agency in front of me here relating to the Constitutional Court's decision in this matter, and she says that: The BiH Constitutional Court today ended the two-day session of the 49th plenary session and considering the requirements for the 11th Constitutional Court's assessment was rejected as unfounded, so here she says, under 1. Nebojša Radmanović, a member of the BiH presidency for the assessment of the constitutionality of members of the 22nd and 23rd State Law on the settlement of obligations under the account of old foreign savings and found that the contested provisions of the law in question were in accordance with the BiH Constitution, because the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in accordance with its constitutional jurisdiction, of the Central Bank Act, determined that the Central Bank of BiH could be a fiscal agent in connection with the settlement of old foreign currency savings through bonds. Under 2nd, so he also refused as an unfounded request by Dr. Haris Silajdžić and Željko Komšić, members of the BiH presidency, and Sulejman Tihić, deputy chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House, for the assessment of the constitutionality of several provisions of the law on terms and conditions of settlement based on old foreign savings accounts, bond emissions in RS and found that the provisions of the law in question were contested in accordance with the BiH Constitution, because in the field of protection of human rights and freedoms, including the issue of payment of old foreign savings, the competent state of BiH and entities, and the RS... better conditions for the payment of old foreign savings were not violated by the BiH Constitution, while the procedure at the request of Sulejman Tihić for the evaluation of members of 19. Regulation on the verification procedure of claims and cash payments on the basis of an old foreign exchange savings account in the RS has been suspended since the actions provided for in the contested provisions of Article 19 have been suspended. The regulations, already implemented, have ceased to exist assumptions for the conduct of the procedure and are no longer intended to conduct further proceedings. So these three refer to the old foreign exchange savings and this is... so the agency's news of the Constitutional Court's decision. I read it. That's all I have and I think that, apart from the Constitutional Court in BiH, no one else has any more, because I don't know if this Constitutional Court decision has been made, I don't think that it's, we haven't seen it, it's not published, and I'm asking you not to read anything from the Constitutional Court decisions here in Parliament until until the BiH Constitutional Court has written its decision and until it publishes, that is, because there are three decisions here, it's not published in "The Official Messenger of BiH". Only after that will we be able to talk about some things concerning the Constitutional Court decisions and these issues. What's the problem for me, so what's the problem for me, now I'm not looking at the Constitutional Court decisions at all – we need to see what they are, and for all of us here in this country which can be a problem is the issue of securities emissions or securities whatever you want. Is that a monetary question, is that a question of currency? If that's the question, then I think we have a very serious problem. And now it's not even about the foreign savings anymore, and now it's about the monetary system of BiH and I and that thing, and I want to draw attention here and call on you, so since we all know together who broadcasts money in the country. We need to see what the character of these securities is, whether the securities are what money and only afterwards, by reading the Constitutional Court's decision, make the right decisions. Here, therefore, it must be taken into account in particular the provisions which have been contested by the laws put before the Constitutional Court, which are arguments and, I say, any decision, before this Constitutional Court decision is taken, or the Constitutional Court decisions of BiH, I think that any reading of these decisions by heart would be premature, at this point, be premature. That's why we're going to have a proposal here at the club heading towards postponing the debate and looking at things, but, as I was saying, it will inform you of the president of our club in his discussion. 12 So much, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20641	I would like to thank the honourable representative Džaferović. The next is Honorable Representative Bajazit.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20642	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20643	An incorrect quote has the second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20644	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The netačan allegation refers, in my opinion, to the part Mr. Džaferović mentioned, that no one else has information about the decisions of the Constitutional Court. This isn't the first time that's happened before. I will spomenuće, when I made the request to assess a part of the budget law, that journalists and many others had received more information than were given by the promoter and MPs. And this time it happened, given that it also went undetected and that I had two requests for a constitutionality assessment which was discussed in the package with these requirements read by Mr Džaferović, concerning the Law on Public Procurement, the assessment of the constitutionality of that law and the Law on Statistics of BiH. I am busy with press questions to explain such decisions by the High Court of Justice, or the Constitutional Court of BiH. I couldn't do it because I don't have those decisions. So someone else gets those decisions before they send a request to everyone here. Such practice was before and continued, and given that in the Constitutional Court BiH are people from the international community and, as we have seen, the President of the Constitutional Court is now a great expert and I expect this to continue in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20645	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20646	Yeah, right, right. Dear Representative Džaferović: a response to the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20647	Mr. Milorad Živković, really, I mean, you don't need to tell me what you just said because my discussion, in my court, didn't provoke your reaction. I, therefore, said - none of us have any information on what is in the Constitutional Court Decision until it is announced, or by the Constitutional Court's decisions, until it is announced in "the Official Messenger of BiH". I know what a court ruling means, I know what the Constitutional Court's decision means. I said 13 I read the agency news received by all four and a half million people living in this country. I have written here but the right information, so the content of what actually motivated the Court to make such a decision as it has made and what is the character of that decision and what its implications are, can be read only when we read those decisions. That's all I wanted to say and nothing more. And don't put anything in my mouth that I haven't said and you don't really need it unless you have an irresistible need to get up after every discussion I've had, so you can replicate something. Well, burum, you're coming out as far as I'm concerned. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20648	Correction of the incorrect allegation: the esteemed second Vice-President Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20649	Dear MP and colleague, Mr. Šefik Džaferović, do not attach more importance to yourself than you have. You accidentally ran into him with one of your sentences that no one else had information, and I just grabbed that line. As far as you could hear from my discussion, nothing was addressed to you at all, but to the Constitutional Court and the way the Constitutional Court works in this country, and the decisions we hope to receive, and you and I will consider it in particular. So please understand why I went out.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20650	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Bajazit Jašarević, and let the distinguished representative Bakir Izetbegović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20651	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to give my support to those who represent the views that it is early to interpret the decisions of the Constitutional Court until they are published, but what has been announced is that nothing has been challenged by the existence of such a law. I would like to remind here that the reasons for the adoption of the Bill on Supplements to the Law on the Enabling of Obligations on the Account of Old Foreign Savings stems from the conclusion of the Interim Commission for the Determination of Old Foreign Savings of Citizens of BiH, laid down on the accounts of domestic banks and branches in BiH, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH adopted at the 2nd session, held on 19.3.2008. So, the Council of Ministers followed the conclusion and request of this committee. I would also mention this in this letter: given the importance and specificity of the problem of old foreign savings in domicile banks, and the necessity to allow savings, which for certain reasons did not access the verification, to be made available to the ex-post verification deadline as a prerequisite for the settlement of their claims. 14 I think it's important to point out the following. No matter what decision the Constitutional Court has made, this law is needed in BiH to resolve the issue of old foreign currency savings. Under BiH law and those who fear the lawsuit before the International Court, I don't think they have to fear much. We also have a new situation that even domestic courts, when they're being saved, decide to exercise their rights under this law, but it's stopped until they can verify, so we simply find ourselves in an empty legal space, and this is an attempt to resolve that question. The Finance and Budget Commission held that the Council of Ministers had to amend this law in other parts, but it took the view that this is a key bottleneck in this law. And I think that Parliament's bright cheeks could support this law and all the requirements for further analysis and the law to be changed, and in other parts of it absolutely still stand and do not prevent the new commission, nor the Council of Ministers from following further the verification process, the amount of the necessary funds and dynamics and conditions of paying off old foreign savings adapts to that. So, I think it would be very good to resolve the question of the possibility of verification of savings which, of course, wants it by 2010. And in the end, I'd like to point this out. Before the banking crisis happened in the United States and now in the EU, we all thought it could just happen to us in Bosnia, because everything is happening to us. It is now seen to be a much more sensitive issue and a much more complex issue for far more developed countries. So EU countries are helping private banks to survive on the financial market from their countries' budgets, and we find it odd that when we leave the war, the state guarantees state banks, which were, of course, state banks at the time. So every investigation into any crime comes into account but we need to know that the banking system is subject especially to these political instabilitys and that this is not any situation that needs to be particularly surprised. The main question – what is the potential of our budgets to resolve the issue of old foreign savings within a reasonable period, not wanting to cheer much for old foreign savings, nor to challenge it. It simply needs to be realistic what people, who have risked saving, can rest from a country that recovers from the war. So I call on the House to support the principles of the law and, in the meantime, if it happens that it has to give up, it always has to give up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20652	I thank the esteemed representative Jašarević. The next is distinguished representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20653	As counterpart Džaferović announced, the SDA MPs' club will, on behalf of the club, propose conclusions to postpone the plea and wait for the information and position of the Council of Ministers. But I can't help but repeat some of the things I said earlier on this subject. So I have an irresistible feeling that we're taking part here, in fact, in covering some unclean and dishonest work. Because, you see, we never got the right information about what happened with the foreign currency savings. Who stole the foreign savings? We were in charge of the Council of Ministers, but we never got the right information. And I think that part of my conclusion will go in that sense – that 15 of us will finally, as far as we can get, information from the Council of Ministers where the money went. You know the money flow, there's one moment where that money went missing. Where'd he go? What did the Council of Ministers take to find out or to get that money back, and what answer did it get from those parties that asked for it? So you had a man who had 100,000 marks in the exchange or in our currency. So then we simply turned down some three or four zeros there and offended that value by this one who had dinars or stamps. We put the citizens ahead, we did one thing that's against the constitution, we put the citizens in an unequal position. Both were able to buy a clean gold or a house at that time. That's what we've done. So then we amnested the thieves, the banks or the states that did this to the citizens of BiH. We'll amnesty them in this way, let's not pursue them. So we'll, for example, give a man who had a million marks of value some crumbs of it all. We decide that he doesn't get his million but to get five or ten thousand marks. So instead of the real thieves we're going to burden, by returning, taxpayers, children who, for example, were not born at the time when this debt was created, they're going to pay back... the old foreign currency savings. That's what we're in here for. So politics is full of compromises but what's too much is. This is really not right and I will ask, at the very least, that the High-quality Council of Ministers inform us about what it has done and what answers it has received in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20654	Chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20655	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests, respected members of the Council of Ministers, this is a topic that we have discussed several times in this term, which, on the proposal of the Council of Ministers, is under the pressure of a large number of our citizens to whom we have named - we, when I say, think of politicians in this country - are saving old foreign currency. I've always wondered that we called them old and that some of them were new. The second question that has always come to me, so I will now try to ask the Deputy Minister to explain to me and the public, to remove some dilemmas more. I don't think we're going to solve anything today, because this evidence is being solved from the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement until today. And it's obvious, it's my conclusion as a citizen of this country, that there is no will in this country to resolve this issue. So, if there was a will, it would have gotten rid of it long ago. I am listening to information on our country's liquidity, external debt, inflation, all positive indicators, and, as far as I know, we external debt, that is at least the information that we officially have, very, very neatly, even before paying our commitments to internal beneficiaries of the budget. So we are very disciplined when it comes to the reconciliation of our obligations to the outside, which is good for the credibility of all of us and the state and financial system of this country. Was it savings, so she was virgin or non-virgin, was she property? We've heard many times that it is, it's inalienable private property, now private, not state property. Have we chosen to respect property in this country, completely state and private? There are no more preferences for state or social, but also private and every form of ownership exactly the same. I'm not sure we respect our commitment. Turns out it's just a declaration. Furthermore, I listen these days, dear colleague Jašaravić mentioned this in part, the distinguished Chancellor Merkel declares that she would stabilise the banking system in one Germany: the state guarantees to save its citizens, without restrictions, so as not to encounter a stampede that will collect the stakes etc. For the sake of uncertainty, because of this in order to preserve even the system, I understand so, I am not an economic expert. One America is considering supporting private banks, and that's said to preserve its banking and financial system. A question that doesn't seem to matter: do we today have instruments that we can preserve our banking system? Do we have any guarantees today – I will not deliberately give an answer even though I know it – to protect the current savings in the banks of BiH that tomorrow someone in this parliament or someone else is not thinking about some more recent foreign exchange or some other savings that, behold, someone will need or won't need to compensate for their ownership? And the thesis of how someone stole it!? I don't care about that at all from the point of view of the solution to this issue. So does that mean, and we're witnessing that every day, almost every day someone steals some money in a bank in BiH, today, means not yesterday, does that mean when I go to the bank where yesterday's break-in was made that they won't pay me my salary, because yesterday someone just stole my salary from that bank. No, that's not gonna happen. So, no matter what someone in my bank stole yesterday, I don't know any more than my pay, I come, after it's taken care of, I get my salary. Why foreign money should be distracted by stories about how someone stole it, which is why you can't get what someone stole. I agree that this one has to answer who stole, that we don't get it wrong, but it can't be our alibi to tell foreign savings – well, you won't get your money because someone stole it from you, until we find who stole it, and we'll never find it because if we wanted to, you'll never get your foreign savings or any other savings. One of a series of questions people ask me, so I ask him, but I don't get the right answer. Is it possible that for all these ten, twelve years, we have failed to pay back their people, even if we don't know how much we owe them? And that's not clear to me at all. That today, at the moment we're discussing this, we don't know how much we owe or how much the banks owe, here we are, how much the banks in this country owe to someone we called old foreign currency savings. And then, since we don't know, and I have to say that I find some very convincing arguments that say we know, and who we don't want to know, I don't know. However, you remember the certificate in the privatisation process, and I remember, I mean, I can tell when certificates were issued based on foreign exchange savings – where are these data? And now, I'm saying this in the context of this law, there's a record in this country of that, because someone once issued state papers, securities for that foreign savings. And all of a sudden, we don't know what kind of virgin savings is. So now we're saying, first of all, we've limited 17 people that they can't go into possession or through the papers of their assets if they don't get humiliated again, so they're waiting in line for a bank or an agency to record them. I, when I want to prove my private property, go to the garret shop, file a request and get an excerpt and there it says, you have – you don't. Today, when I want to raise my foreign or foreign savings or money invested, I bring a card or a savings book and I show it in the bank where I invested it and I get my private property without a problem. So, with this document, I exercise my right to use my property. Where does the need for me to verify some documents again now? Well, here you go, let the state do it! So, I'm tired of 20 years of not being able to own my private property and rightly all of them, I must say, the vast majority of those in that category are foreign savings at least 20 years ago. So you can think now, you don't expect children of 10 years of age to have been foreign currency savings, so these are our citizens who have been hard-working on Western Europe's baustels, and there are patriots, patriots, whatever you want to call them, or were naive, I don't know now, everyone will find their dimension, so they invested that money here in banks in BiH. If they had invested them in Vienna, Paris, London, and also in Zagreb, they would have got their money by now. We're the only ones who can't. What? How can others do that, and we can't, and what are the forms? This is what I have to say. Here, I just want to get rid of it, at least I'm trying to get rid of myself, all kinds of delusions about this question, because I think we've got so much mystification, I think we're talking so much in a vague language that we can put off 20 more years on this issue. Let's tell people in particular - there's no money! I remember a pre-war official who first spoke in the coming strikes has no money, so now strike, come on, we'll talk. It means, but let's tell people. However, if we have for orderly service of external debt, if our foreign reserves are growing, if we have a stable fiscal system, I say these are all official indicators of the Central Bank, let's not bother people now about whether, who has the right to issue certificates. That's what we need to solve for each other but not for their own damage, and not as if we're looking for a reason to discuss it for another five years. So it's very simple. You finally need to tell people the real truth, and you need to get to the means. Did anyone in any of the debates mention the possibility of a government task? We're in charge of a lot of things. ... The government's borrowing if this is a solution, but let's be correct with our own citizens, surely it will be much better to appreciate us and those to whom we regularly repay the external debt. Here, I asked the question, I didn't offer an answer and I'll say - I don't know how to treat this law. So far I've given consent to this, counting better than nothing, because if you don't have the law, then it's just a hollow story. If you have some kind of law, you give it a chance that at least once people will be compensated, but really today I'm in a dilemma whether I should give support for it again, here's how little I might be, harassing people to go from counter to counter, if they already have orderly documents that can prove that owners are old or, I don't know, I'd like to be called simple virgin savings. Here you go, country, make sure I get my private property! Thank you very much. I have a registered honourable representative, Vinko Zorić, so let the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović be prepared. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20656	I thank the chairman, I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues, and I will be very brief. I personally support this law, although I would like it to cover a lot more than it's written in these amendments to the law. And my discussions and discussions on this issue are well known both in the past term and in this, and all I'm going to say is that the payment limit of 1,000 marks is not fair, it's not fair. I accept that this deadline should be extended, that the entire old foreign exchange savings should be verified and in one of my discussions, just to supplement what my colleague Lozančić was talking about, in the last term, I was talking about – if we knew what old currency savings were, old under the supposed signs, and if we knew how much savings she was saving and multiplied it by 1,000 marks, then we would know how much the state would pay, or how much we would pay those savings if, if, yes, we would count on it to be allocated by 1,000 marks. Then it would be fairer to do it proportionally. Because here, for example, when someone has 10,000 marks, they're going to get 1,000 marks; when someone has 1,000 marks on their savings, they're going to get 1,000 marks. So one savings gets 100% of its savings, another savings gets 10% of its savings, which is absolutely not fair. Also, I repeat what some others have talked about, that it would be good to accept this law in our first reading, that we act on it by repairing if we think we should, and it's not good to say - someone stole this money, which I agree with, but that's why we're going to punish whoever was stolen. That's not fair to savings. I've caricated this problem so far, that I said, let's now let's have these savings that have the savings to steal, among which I am, and pay off the old ones, and let's get a 20-year-old too, and then I guess somebody's gonna remember that they're paying us off, too. I don't think that's right, and we need to do everything, there's this state of wealth that's going to go into privatisation, is there, we all need to be solid and save these savings? It's not good either to extend these deadlines, I don't mean these supplements, although here I was going to ask the chairman, and I thought I'd be much shorter to just stick to the supplement, but here I am not, speaking in general. So I'm not gonna go wide, I'm gonna cut it short. I support these additions to the law, although I think this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Reconciliation of Obligations can still be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20657	I thank the esteemed representative Zorić. The next is the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, and let the distinguished representative Jozo Križanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20658	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, the honourable representatives of the Council of Ministers and Guests, are somewhat unusual, but I appreciate the value of paying attention to your attention that this is the Proposal for a Law on Supplements, and this is based on the adopted shortened procedure. This is the first reading. At the request of the Council of Ministers, we are considering this law in the first reading and that of the law that is in the shortened procedure. I remind you of this only because it seems to me that today we have had a much more contentious nature debate of 19 during this debate of this law than the principles of... the addition of this law that is in the shortened procedure. But what I would like to draw particular attention to is one part of the discussion on which my colleague Lozančić referred. And that is how, for example, solving a problem like this can help improve or worsen economic performances in one economy. Well, let me mention that the problem we have been dealing with for years, not only with saving, not just financial frameworks, or banking sector, monetary and financial sector stability in BiH, not only human rights, but not only, so much broader than all this we're talking about, the problem, the old foreign savings issue, concerns, among other things, investment in BiH and stimulating new savings. At the same time, here is today the whole world and all parliaments and all governments are discussing the potential effects of the financial crisis on the economy. So let me remind you that as a small and open economy, bearing in mind and a special monetary arrangement... which we are tied to the euro area, or the euro, obliges us to hold a debate, a serious debate of this kind as soon as possible. And I just want to draw attention to these two facts, that this question deserves it-- how much more attention, as an economic issue of the whole of this country, a serious issue that we can really deal with as a potential serious problem that will affect the overall economic stability of both the state and its entities and its cantons, etc. And let me mention why I'm saying this -- both states and entities. Because here I read with attention what my colleague Džaferović drew attention to – agency news, which is an indication of the demands submitted by Mr Nebojša Radmanović, member of the Presidency, Mr Silajdžić and Komšić, members of the presidency, Mr Sulejman Tihić, Mr Milorad Živković, etc. The Bošnjak Club in the Council of Peoples and Mr Nikola Špirić and the answers, i.e. the contents of all these reactions of the Constitutional Court concerned competence within BiH. So, basically to caricate a little bit, old foreign currency savings are our victims, or their unsolved status as victims are our internal, say, structure or transfer of responsibility. Because here's a little attention: The Constitutional Court has rejected Mr. Radmanović's request as an unfounded, since the provisions of the law have been challenged, as BiH has determined that the Central Bank is a fiscal agent. So, the Central Bank, or the state level, or central level of government, that is to say, in response to the obvious, at the request of Mr Silajdžić and Komšić, both states and entities are competent in the field of protection of human rights. So, practically legislatively, this judicial authority has been dealing with matters of competence within BiH and let me just mention that it would be good to have this issue, of course, as much as possible before we can absorb it. Now I don't know, as far as I understand Deputy Minister he mentioned some meeting tomorrow, we can possibly delay a statement about this bill in the first reading for tomorrow. But I'm not sure it's wise to delay him to infinity, to withdraw him, etc., for exactly what I was just talking about. I just want to say about it and initiate, I think it would be good if, here, if there was a meeting tomorrow, that is, here are representatives of the Council of Ministers, from the resolution ministry that it would be good that as soon as tomorrow, the Council of Ministers held an urgent debate on the subject of a possible reflection of the financial crisis in BiH. Why do I want to distract this? I just want to mention that part of the stability of our monetary and financial system here in BiH, among other things, is the existing savings. If we allow in one way or another to get this savings out of the banking system, we ourselves will contribute to the financial crisis in BiH, and please consider this with a little more seriousness as a potential problem, rather than just an old foreign savings problem, which is a problem for ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20659	I thank the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović. The following was announced by distinguished representative Jozo Križanović, and may the distinguished representative Savo Erić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20660	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20661	It's a replica, isn't it? ... Dear Representative Dokić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20662	Since my colleague Azra is used to giving me replicas, now I'm getting used to giving her replicas, I'm kidding, of course. It's just that what my colleague Azra said was a serious question, a very serious question, and I'm not going to elaborate any further, it really is. And she said then, maybe we should wait until tomorrow to make a statement, so let's define ourselves about this law. This law does not solve essential issues, it, with all due respect for all of them so far, solves them in the wrong way. I fully agree with what Mr. Chairman said, the issue of verification, and especially the way who understood it, and where he brought confusion in various parts of BiH. You Dobićete be given this commission a comprehensive proposal on how to resolve it, including what counterpart Bahtić said, and on the basis of what is the chairman of our home. We have to change things and we have to change things in a way if we want to be correct about one population of citizens of this country that is damaged and we all look open-eyed to that fact and we point to that fact, and we do nothing to change it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20663	Thank you. Honorable representative Hadžiahmetović: answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20664	Thank you. The president of the PDP Club replicated here, I don't know what. I did not talk, colleague Dokić, about the details, about the content, about any proposal for a solution to this, I just want to draw attention to the need for an urgent solution to the problem and to draw attention not only to this problem but also to this problem. Our old foreign savings can be either the sea or, let's say, an accelerant of additional problems that, in these circumstances, can contribute to the weight of 21 situations. So, I haven't talked about the details, and I appreciate that the law that's in the process, I repeat in the first reading, perhaps the modality that we do in the second phase, or in the amendment, is that we make these adjustments that you're talking about, but that we don't waste time. Because all I'm saying is, we don't have time, we should discuss this topic I was just talking about tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20665	I thank the distinguished representative Hadžiahmetović. The next is distinguished representative Jozo Križanović, and may the distinguished representative Savo Erić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20666	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, you see, we actually have a relatively simple law on the agenda today, or a proposal to amend and supplement the law, I'd say, even technically. And there's a very, very interesting and serious debate opening up here that is kind of repeated from the time we discussed and the adoption of this law, and then the first amendments and additions, etc. So all this suggests that we have not solved this problem and that this parliament and this state have not taken seriously their mission to the citizens of BiH. And it was never on its own initiative, on its own needs, but it was always on the push and pressure of the international community, or the organisation of the savings themselves, who were chasing it through judicial protection and beyond this country. So you see what our relationship to this is like. On 19.3., the interim joint commission to determine the old foreign savings recommended that the Council of Ministers propose such a law, so 10 months ago almost, excuse me, seven. The Council of Ministers two months ago told Parliament to amend and supplement after a hasty procedure, be careful. And so today, we're discussing this after seven months, because there was some confusion and an urgent need for intervention. So, as far as I'm concerned, this bill, he unfortunately again shows again all the irresponsibility of the BiH and Council of Ministers, so I would say, even this Parliament, that this problem simply does not take it seriously or wants to solve it seriously. We are trying to deal with the old foreign exchange savings as an out-of-date savings, you know, as one problem that we are trying to take off, throw under the carpet, and then, I believe, we will solve this problem in the most expensive way for BiH, the court rulings. And that will be the ultimate culmination of this authority's irresponsibility. As far as this proposal is concerned, I say, it's no problem for us to adopt this, to extend that deadline of verification, but this I agree with our colleagues, let's be aware that we haven't actually done anything in this domain of solving that savings. But now that this has come to an end, it's better than nothing, so let's also push this to, of course, one of the necessary conclusions of this house about this: to commit the Council of Ministers to really comply with those previous conclusions and discussions that were led here to look at all possible real resources to speed up and shorten the time of return of foreign savings. Thank you. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20667	I thank the esteemed representative Križanović. The next respected representative, Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20668	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed guests, I do not see that we will resolve this through this law, and I have had objections on this committee, I voted against it, because I think with this law too, we will enter another agony for a year because we want this mandate to go through; it means in one elegant way that we have fought for the old foreign savings to solve, and we did not essentially want to solve it. In order not to philosophize, and the problems are great, people don't have drugs and food, and we have problems counting how much we owe, what is the situation, I suggest, since this commission, and I must stress that, two months ago, the Joint Commission was to meet to make proposals, and it hasn't even met yet, so there's another answer that all these commissions and all the laws, complement, re-enactment means it's going to lead to major problems. To prevent what counterpart Jozo said, the great cataclysm and the blockade of the budget we stand for and bankruptcy, we ask one question: Who will be responsible for the interest that will surely be decided and we cannot escape from it? And they'll certainly be in million figures. And we're gonna give those million figures, have bigger problems, and we're not gonna finish the job. As far as I saw from those conversations with people and the Commission that represented actually old foreign currency savings, they had a desire to start giving them something, so let's see this review of a thousand euros to be our first step towards it. So we're going to see definitely how many of these people are on the list, number one. Number two, if we want to, so Strazbur ruled 4% of the interest and we can't get away from it. Verify in euro savings and we'll know. So let's see how much we owe and we'll finish this story. And those who have not earned their rights, then we will indeed give them one additional term to stand in ranks and try to reach their rights, for they have seen that payment has begun, and they will come to their rights. And to make a addition now that people are being harassed in front of banks again, to stand up, to prove, it's really extremely impertinent of everyone, especially all of us who are here. For this reason, I really suggest that we approach this part, and our commission to meet again and make all the proposals that we have, and this part that needs to be paid, and I assume that the Deputy Minister has indicators, if that's a 700-million-dollar story, and then – if we now have the number of people per 1,000-euro or this, perhaps what Mr Zorić has suggested -- we suggest a percentage part, to get into that story. Let's make this our first step and we'll get to a safe solution, and that way we'll avoid a lot of lawsuits, avoid the suffering of those people who are going to pay lawyers, and they're going to spend it on their own. The country will be damaged again, so we're going to have a big minus. Thank you. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20669	Thank you. There are no more registered deputies. Dear Deputy Minister Kasumović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20670	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, I will try very briefly to explain it one more time. The first thing is, I'll apologize and ask you to adopt this in your first reading. Why? I'll explain now. I'll go first to know where you are, to remind you there. So, the Savings Association sued the BiH state and, on the basis of the lawsuit, the BiH Court and the Human Rights House ruled that the state of BiH should unanimously resolve the old foreign currency haven throughout BiH. The former and current Council of Ministers' meeting has passed a law of amendment and supplementation and we now have the law. So we have a law to settle that. In the meantime, so the entities worked together all the time, because they're finally returning those funds. In order for me to call it, and now I'm going to do it again, to mock the state, so for no reason whatsoever, 20 days before the issue of bonds, the RS brings its own set of laws and issues bonds. On those laws, two members of the presidency and Mr Tihić appealed to the Constitutional Court to this set of RS laws. The Constitutional Court has reached a verdict, the finance ministry hasn't won yet, but what we know, it's not against what the RS did. I repeat, so the Constitutional Court itself, for us in the Ministry of Finance, is incomprehensible, we are not lawyers, we are economists, but it is incomprehensible that the Constitutional Court derogates the ruling of the Court of BiH. It's incomprehensible for us. And another thing that is incomprehensible, means it puts BiH citizens in an unequal position. Why? Because RS has already issued bonds and everything, and we still can't do that for a part of the citizens living in the Federation and the Brcko District. Here, and we're here now. So we have the law, the Constitutional Court said what he said, for me it's crazy, but I have to respect it, that's how it is. And now this is what we want, that people, so that we don't get sued, means because it's private property, to allow all BiH citizens just an additional deadline for verification. Because a lot of people were fooled, some people didn't want to verify that, too. In order not to go to court, it means this to me; as for the people who are going to sue us and who have sued in Strasbourg, monetary and fiscal policy is in the hands of every government and every state. So the Strasbourg Court can't order BiH to pay for it in two days. What do I mean? I mean, if we have a valid law and we haven't denied human rights to people, and we're currently denying them, because many of them haven't verified, they couldn't, they didn't want to, or for a million reasons. So these supplements will allow them to, we have a valid law, and always the court will pay them back... to be paid under this law. I understand the Honorable Chairman of what he was saying. It was the most just solution, so there was a list of banks who had anyone where to save, to betray themselves. But I can't talk about it right now. I repeat, we have the law and now all we do is supplement. This is your first reading, I really apologize to you, but I ask you for the citizens of BiH, because 24 are citizens in an unequal position. So, from the RS they have, they're already getting funds. Had this BiH law been respected, these citizens would have received the first round, the first war, etc. As for the verification of the total debt, it has been made clear all along that it is about two billion etc. I can tell you -- by law, and the law says they have to be verified -- there are about 700 million debts on the whole of BiH. It's the only valid data. Gentlemen, you have passed this law and according to it says, "Who has verified himself, there is." The current indicators say so much. Now let's give more people, there's probably more. What's the amount? There's a rumor that two-thirds of them aren't. One-third, we don't know, we don't officially know if there are documents in the entities and in the Brcko District alike. Here, I'll ask you one more time. So there's no fear of any high interest that Strazbur will judge otherwise. strazbur will rule, this is what I am saying from talks with BiH's defenders who represent us upstairs. decidno, as long as we don't jeopardize civil rights to people, Strazbur won't react. Now we're missing it. We're jeopardizing people who will, who have seen it start, they want to verify it. So we're not gonna change anything. We're gonna do this, we're just giving another rock to the people, who wants to do it. I repeat, tomorrow is scheduled, I have scheduled a meeting of both the OHR and the Brcko District, the RS, the Federation, to see how after the Constitutional Court's ruling we will come out and we will know it. But I repeat, the Constitutional Court ruling does not touch this law that has a state. He's just touching it, saying that what the RS did was that it wasn't past the law, past the Constitution. We don't understand it, but here, we have to accept it that way. I beg you once again, visating everything that, I apologize, many have said it shouldn't, nothing will cost you, because until the second reading we have a clear situation. And let the citizens who want to not have to sue us, that's our citizens. We simply give them that deadline, because these supplements don't solve anything else. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20671	I thank the esteemed Deputy Minister Kasumović and conclude the debate on this agenda point. I would like to remind you of the beginning of the session when we said that we would continue the debate on point 5 when an authorised proposing appears at the session, and this is about the proposal for a law on witness protection programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the first reading. With us is the honourable minister and deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Sadović. Would you like to explain? He does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20672	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly and respected participants of this session, allow me first of all to apologize for not being immediately at the beginning of today's session, because I had a session of the Council of Ministers that lasted about an hour, perhaps an hour and a half, so I was unable to attend and 25 thank you for understanding that you moved this point, so that I could give some notice and introduce the representatives to the content of this law. I also thought, at the last session I was at, part of this debate that the head of the task force, so the employee at my ministry, who therefore worked on this law, would be enough to provide you with valid information, but here you asked to be on a higher level. It is very important that we all know together that two laws are in force in BiH. It is the Witness Protection Act under threat and threatened witnesses and, secondly, the Law on Witness Protection in BiH. So there are these two laws that regulate one very sensitive substance, especially when it comes to crimes of war crimes, organised crime, so the most serious crimes. Why, therefore, why we decided to be a new law on witness protection – in accordance with the Unique Rules for the Making of Regulations: when more than 50% of the laws are amended, then the proposal for a new law must go. Allow me, in the shortest possible, to inform you of the reasons for the passing of this law. Therefore, above all, these reasons are contained in the fact that an effective witness protection system should be provided during and after the criminal proceedings. Please, these words "after criminal proceedings" are very important for understanding this law. Other reasons are also closer to the definition, more precise definition of procedures and how to include witnesses in the protection programme, then the formation of a witness programme commission, then additional protection and support measures, the application of protection measures, then the introduction of a protection programme, data records and data protection and funding arrangements. Therefore, the proposal for a law regulates the procedure and way of including in the protection programme, the establishment of a body, i.e. the committee responsible for the decision to initiate, suspend, suspend or extend the application of the protection programme, as well as more precise legal determination of the application of emergency measures. This law also lays down and provides the elements necessary for the conclusion of the agreement and questionnaires, as well as the termination and termination of the witness protection programme, and the financing of the witness protection programme. So there's no need for me to explain to you, in the detailed explanation that you've been given under the law, anything further. Of course, if necessary, I'm ready. But I remind you, given that in the previous debate, this question was asked, as I was told, so I refer to Article 8, which is entitled 'Process for the application of the protection programme', because some MPs were interested in who this law actually applies. Here, let me read Article 8(1) - The application and extension of the protection programme is decided by the Commission at the reasoned request of the BiH Prosecutor General. And this is, therefore, important now - an initiative to apply for the application of the protection programme to the chief prosecutor of BiH may be submitted by the competent prosecutor, the court acting in the case, the head of the criminal and jurisprudence institution and the witness or person referred to in... in the position (2) and (3) of Article 2 of this Act. So, along with this article, the 8th position (1) which ensures... that any competent court in BiH acting on an appropriate case can actually submit the initiative, and that, at the reasoned request of the chief prosecutor, the relevant commission decides. The commission consists of four members. One member is the head of the Witness Protection Department, which means a specialized department within the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of SIPA, the deputy chief prosecutor, the BiH Court of Justice judge and an authorised representative of the justice ministry. 26 So please pay attention to Article 10 as well. (Application of emergency measures). So, if the chief prosecutor on the admission of the initiative from the position (1) 8th of this article – I have now told you who can submit the initiative – an assessment that life, health or physical integrity, freedom or property of a witness of a greater extent, i.e. that they can be exposed to a real and serious threat that cannot be removed by the appropriate protection measures provided by the police, so he can seek the application of measures by the Head of the Witness Protection Department and which the head of the SIPA department decides within 24 hours. Therefore, in the event that the safety of witnesses has been severely compromised, an appropriate decision may be taken before this agreement to include a witness in the protection programme, of course with its own consent. Here, I think I've removed some dilemmas from the question. If there are any other dilemmas, I am at your disposal and I ask you to support this bill because it promotes the situation in this area, therefore, which is regulated by the existing law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20673	I thank the Honorable Minister. I don't have any reports at the moment. Here's the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20674	I thank the chairman, thank the minister for trying to explain the legal project. Obviously, in the last debate, when he was one of the cabinet members of the minister, there were no answers to very important questions that would determine whether or not we should accept this legal project. And since it wasn't transmitted to the minister in the right way, I'm going to ask out loud and clear here. Can any court from the RS ask the chief prosecutor to take the protection of witnesses and in this case has the jurisdiction of the RS courts that, on the line currently standing, it asks the RS chief prosecutor to do so under the Witness Protection Act in the criminal proceedings "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", number 48/03 and, if not, to see why it is so; if so, why so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20675	Thank you. Are there any more reported? There isn't. Dear Minister Sadović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20676	The Honorable Chairman, as I interpret this law, of course, I think Article 8. has precisely defined this matter. Therefore, in a particular case, the competent court in the RS may initiate 27 with the main prosecutor an initiative to include an important witness, which is under a certain degree of threat, in the witness protection programme and, of course, to be provided with the necessary protection measures provided for by the Specialised Department of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection which has all the resources and opportunities to apply all the measures, from concealing identity, property, changes in identity, etc., all these measures provided for by the law, here in this sense, I do not know whether I was clear enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20677	Dear second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20678	Before the plea, not to be unfair or to think afterwards about why it was voted one way or another, the SNSD's view is that we trust the RS judiciary, that we trust the RS police and that we have not been persuaded by the BiH institutions so far that we need to believe them, and we will not support this legal project.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20679	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20680	Can I just have a minute?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20681	Take it easy, take it easy, take it easy. So, the word has a respected representative, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20682	I am sorry that I had the opportunity to hear this last thing Mr. Živković was talking about, and it is directly related to the application of the BiH Constitution and the law in this country. The constitution of this country and the laws of this country, according to which the BiH institutions operate, must be respected and, of course, they must be held inconsequentials for any disrespect, no matter what subjective feelings someone may have for these institutions, and at least this is expected to be one of these kind of doubts coming from a man sitting in the head office of the Parliament of this country. And this is a shameful thing to hear, Mr. Živković. I hope that later you will find out what you said about the pay phone and that you will understand the meaning of everything you've been talking about. So that's one thing. It's another thing. The court, the BiH State Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office have their original powers and no one can interfere in this jurisdiction. It's a lot of crimes. When a special part of the BiH Criminal Law is looked at, it will be seen which is the website and this 'The Witness Protection Programme Act' refers precisely to the functioning of the BiH Court, the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the protection programme, which is estimated to be necessary to enter the protection system. It's a brand-new practice that BiH has never known before. It's obvious that life carries with it the need to and that 28 things in this way are arranged,...that and clearly stems from this law here. The only thing that comes out of this law is what the minister was talking about, which is that this law does not deny the right. Whether or not it will be requested, it is a different matter now, but this law does not deny the right to any court in BiH, regardless of what level it was, to address this programme and to seek its protection. Whether he does it or not, it's the question of the court's decision, the question of the witness, the question, therefore, of the situation. To bring about regulations that would be discriminated against in advance by someone at the BiH state level to call on the programme, I think it would be discriminatory, and the essence of this law -- I was asking a little questions, so later -- entities have, so it's all standing there and no one gets in the rights of the entity. Whether it's an entity court or not, it's his right. But if we tell him now you can't ask for it, we can't pass that regulation. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20683	Here is the honourable representative Živković: a response to the comment of the distinguished representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20684	I think it's already been degutant for you to honor me for not being able to express my position from this place. I think this place as well as any place is identical, it's just different places I'm in, and I'll always, regardless of your objections, say my position in which I didn't insult anyone, but just say what I think I should say. Mr. Džaferović, we had reports here from the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and from others and we did not accept those reports. Does that mean we trust these institutions? On the other hand, do not convince us that only cosmetic changes do not make a drastic transfer of jurisdiction. Here you have to say, and then you need to ask us to do it, that it's a transfer of jurisdiction, and not to convince us that it's not a transfer of jurisdiction. And I'm going to tell you both from this pay phone and from anywhere else, because I'm talking about this country with open cards, what can, what can't be done, what's in accordance with the law and the Constitution, to which you keep calling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20685	Replica, the esteemed representative, Huskić, first reported for the replica, and then the esteemed representative Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20686	Dear colleagues, this is, I think, the seventh or eighth legal project that has brought down the SNSD here that has the chairman of the Council of Ministers. It's always about projects, or laws that came from the Council of Ministers. So none of them are proposed by any MP, or group, or club, all of the Council of Ministers' laws, and I think it's clear here that this is about the destruction of BiH institutions in a way that is supported by the Council of Ministers so that 29 of them will not be called by the chairman, and then the MPs of this party tear them down in this House or the House of Peoples. It started with the Restitution Act, here, it's gonna end today with this, if there's not another one. Meanwhile, there's no law on commissions: "Law on Arms", "Law on Border Control," and I don't know which one yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20687	Honourable representative Izetbegović: replica; then distinguished representative Kalabić: replica; then distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20688	Then you should have told Mr. Živković what it was about. So you don't want to transfer jurisdiction! But you said you didn't trust BiH institutions, you said that, that's one terrible statement. One hell of a statement. Don't believe in the system! That's what you said. Are you aware of the weight of that statement? I mean, you only seem to trust those judicial institutions where you have control over them. And what else should this country do? We will have in a few months a situation where the presidency will be chaired by a SNSD man, where he will chair the SNSD Council of Ministers, where this House will be chaired by a SNSD man – and the SNSD has the opportunity to stop everything by entity vote. I mean, what else should you do if you have trust!?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20689	The next is Honourable representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20690	Gentlemen, the chairman, we have warned in this House on several occasions that you are not putting pressure on us that under pressure there should be a political agreement. You can't do that kind of pressure. Then it's not democracy. Then they're ultimatums, then they're prewritten tasks. If we make a deal, democracy is that we don't make a deal, so let's move on. We have things we can agree on. No, we just keep the ball on that thing that we can't agree on, and that's where we add the story of how we have to deal with it. What it's like, if we don't agree, it's a state betrayal. Whoever doesn't want to make a deal is against the state everywhere and on every single thing. When we warned here that we were under this kind of pressure, we agreed about ten things, so when we analyzed them after a year, two or three, then we saw that we were doing a useless job. Mr. Izetbegović, I trust the Food Control Agency with nothing. She's at the level of the BiH state and her house has been far away. That's because she doesn't trust any of the citizens of this country. What you think he's wearing in the name of upstairs BiH, that I need to tighten up to say that I don't believe. I think it's better that I say it than that it has more tragic consequences, it doesn't like you and those agencies. I don't trust them. Look at the polls... citizens participate in them, where and what institutions they only trust. And what's the matter with that, what's the issue if you say you don't trust an institution? If you want to lie, here we believe everyone, everything is ideal, everything is 30 good, and we'll say, just because it's called BiH, we believe, don't let anyone mention anything against BiH. I don't think it's real, it's not real that way to approach this problem. Mr. Živković made it clear what the problem was. And those who think of some kind of fraud, so leave that story alone. I mean, that way, if you know that the story of the transfer is jurisdiction, I don't know what time we've told that story is resolved. You're waiting here for the end of the story so you can say, eh, then somebody remembers how to make a move. Everybody knows that. Is it controversial to go to Banja Luka and talk about the transfer of jurisdiction? Is it controversial? Is Banja Luka in another state? If you want to transfer jurisdiction, you have to go to Banja Luka and talk. If you first say you're not going to go to Banja Luka to talk, then charge that there's no transfer of jurisdiction, those things could never go together and they won't go together, that's probably, that's quite clear. The other thing,...about Mr. Živković's statement which he repeated on several occasions and we said it here. So you can't go under that kind of thing when it's five to twelve. Why don't you say no one talks to anyone in this country? Why don't you say so? Tell that to strangers. Tell strangers you've never invited us to a club consultation. What kind of a majority is that? Well, it's hollow as Swiss cheese. What are we talking about? In what country does most of the world operate in which no one negotiates before the session and before? Is someone gonna tell me it's normal? It's not normal. So you can think about what you want. I think it's normal for most people to have coffee before every session. Most people don't drink coffee here. Then you know what that majority looks like. And we're calling for everything to be normal. It's true that most of them, to drink coffee, should do this thing better. Since he doesn't even drink coffee, then it's probably all freakish. Another thing, about what my colleague Huskić was saying. This is where the laws are passed, here. The Council of Ministers says if, as far as I'm concerned, he can pass the law, I don't mind. Everything that is apologising, I fully agree. But there's a problem with coffee. And you have a situation here that we MPs who are responsible for the adoption of these laws - answer. It's not a naive council of ministas, it knows that we here have the right to amendments. We have an amendment phase. And when, gentlemen, every time we give you the amendment phase, it is rejected by a list. Let's turn the story around. How many amendments of the SNSD Club have you refused in the last five sessions? All and one in the laws that come from the Council of Ministers. Let's talk about it, accept the amendments, and see if we can refuse the law that way. The Council of Ministers does their job as they do it. They know that there is the next instance that makes the final decision. They're preparing her. But at the same time, you skipped that story about the amendments we invested, invested, invested, and prayed for some amendments, praying – ten, one. We prayed from seven to one, and from three to one. He can't do either, like the Council of Ministers agreed. And that's the whole point of the story. That no talking, no talking, under pressure, that must be done. Gentlemen, you don't have to do anything anymore. We need to make a deal and make a deal. It's not tragic, we don't agree to continue the talks, so in the next attempt, we'll probably agree, as we did before in the five attempts we failed, in the sixth agreement. And what's so controversial about that? But it's tragic that if one of us says it, we won't talk and we won't make a deal. You won't hear it from us. But at the same time, we can't accept it either: you have to make a deal and you have to agree to everything! He can't. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20691	Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić's replica, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20692	Mr. Chairman, I don't know how many times I've called here for honesty. So, you can't tell SNSD and us that if we don't agree with some proposal, that we immediately attack and bring BiH down. That's not true. But we won't anymore, I also said countless times, let someone put us in a position and humiliate us here. I'll tell you in one banal example our insincereness. It's such a time, I don't know when it's going to go away, how long it's going to be, you can't, people, expect Srbin to come to the Palace and applaud an orchestra that would sing ilahi and caste, I don't want to insult anyone, we can't expect to organize a pirate festival in Sarajevo in Skanderia, it's impossible. So please, let's take a realistic look at the situation – what is the problem with this law? Why is it not left, regardless of the independence of the judiciary, the possibility that the courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the RS, have the possibility of having the same institute? Why wasn't it left to have witness protection? Please, did you, I asked your colleagues, read the paper, see the public pressure, not the MPs, that the RS people are completely dissatisfied with the work of the BiH Court of War Crimes. And repeated here countless times and said, I don't want to insult anyone -- we're not looking for a balance in the amount of crimes committed, we're looking for a balance in the amount of justice. But it is impossible for this many years of the Court's work not one single case to come to the Serbian people's death in that court. How can we believe this? Don't force us to do what we think it is and, believe me, our colleagues think. So, what do I want to say? By creating these parliamentary majoritys, we didn't want to be a remethyl factor. It could have been locked right away at the beginning, there's no majority without SNSD. But we are precisely because of BiH, to be constructive, to be, behold, and cooperative, to be on the basis of consensus, agreement, which counterpart Kalabić was talking about, to solve problems. And of course what Mr. Živković said, so it's not his opinion and attitude to bring something down in BiH right away. Please help us build BiH together without you humiliating us and those institutions we don't believe in! When we agreed on anything, rather than always being framed by a bill so that we could conduct broad debates and what else will happen – it's always RS' fault. Well, it's not. You guys, look at how much jurisdiction has been transferred, we're going to do more constitutional changes, see what happens then. If this is the kind of thing you want to pass on to us, and I repeat, you don't want to talk to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to the competent institutions, don't expect us, people, to just come here and what someone else is saying and to give us some paper to press the button right now: that's how it's going to be. But here we are ready for a 24-hour deal on everything in BiH's interest, but we can't, people, and don't expect us to do everything in the interest of BiH if you don't recognise RS and our institutions. That's where we come from. Don't do that. Here I am begging you as friends, let's make a deal. Take it as a reality. What happens when someone else comes, next term, third, fourth, I don't want to dream about it? So please don't do this to us anymore. There were countless of these opportunities, so we kept quiet, so we accepted, no more, please. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20693	Chairman, honourable MP, Mr. Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20694	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, this is a classic example of when the whole issue is fucked up, which is why I called in, so I'm replicating everyone who's been playing the subject. So today we're talking about the proposal for a law on witness protection. You have the final provisions, it seems to me that the last article is, so if you haven't looked, look, there you'll see that we already have such a law. So if we don't adopt this one, we have the law. So let's just be rational, so we can take some letter out of the law now and we'll fight. I mean, if we have to fight, okay. Let's just agree that that's how we're gonna make a contribution, and if we want to try something, let's see how we do it. So I understand from the proposal of this law and, I mean, I'm sorry we're not discussing this bill, I'm talking about the law in the first reading, which we've opened up some topics that have nothing to do with the law at all. So, is the law right or wrong? How many of us here in this room, I'm seriously asking without anyone getting hurt, knows what the witness protection program means? What's that even about how it's done? Do you think BiH is so big that it can successfully implement such a programme? Small, and you can think when we're down to the lower middle. Do any of you want to be in a witness protection program like this, the way it's offered in BiH on the entire territory? Insecure, no one guarantees you anything, little space. Not because we're not capable of human beings, which, be careful, it's a replacement identity, there's something going on here, families, etc. BiH is small. I'm saying, I'm interested -- but I'd think about it and ask, but there's no point in asking, because we've opened up some other topics -- is this the possibility of this organisation of SIPA, the Ministry of Justice, etc. that witness protection is organised beyond BiH's territory? ... Can we, as much as it costs, how we're going to realize that, do we have people qualified for such a protection program? If we want a true witness protection program and if we truly want what many have mentioned, but through other arguments, here we have, and I don't know how much more, I don't dare say, thousands of unprocessed war crimes suspects. We have, they say, in all research, corruption, by corruption, we are the world's top rankings. They say there's organized crime. What I'd like to experience in this country, even if it's unwarranted, just to try to function at least once as an organized state. You heard, I heard last night, so I assume you heard, in our neighbouring country there have been several murders very problematic, in a very short period. And last night, the prime minister of that same country comes out ten to eight -- I don't know what that ten to eight meant to him, he could have been at eight and before, but here I'm talking, ten to eight coming out, and he says -- I've decided to replace the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Justice, because someone has to be responsible for the situation in this country. Maybe people aren't either guilty or indebted, but it's obvious that someone has to answer because people aren't satisfied, they don't feel safe. I'd like to experience it sometime in this country, but let's stop thinking whether it's a HDZ minister, or a minister from the SDA, or a minister from the BIH Party, or a minister from any other party, that we finally set up some sort of system of responsibility. 33 And we spoke a moment ago, so we developed the whole story of who believes in whom, who doesn't believe... The way we do things, do you know that citizens don't trust us?? I mean, look, is that your problem? So, come on, here's why I don't trust the minister, I don't trust any MPs, but look, nothing's better for me, nothing people are going to believe anymore, because I don't trust any of you or any of the institutions that we're going to evaluate here. People will trust us the moment we start doing something useful for them, and I'm aware they won't believe us before that. This law and everything else, I'm saying, I apologize to everyone, I don't want to hurt anyone, I don't want to lecture anyone, but really this law isn't political law at all. So, he doesn't have political weight, he has some kind of, not some very professional weight, and here to see if he can satisfy something called the Witness Protection Program. Let's see, if there's a public debate to be organised, a little bit of experience from other countries, a lot more developed than they've ever had, let's see if we are. We've had the abuse of that system, we know that, but let's see just maybe because we don't have a good law, not this law, not this system, means in some other previous cases. So let's see how to ensure that this system serves its purpose at all, to ensure better work of the law enforcement authorities, and to ensure the protection of those we call upon to testify in certain, in particular, delicate cases. Because this program won't refer to car accidents. So he refers to much more complex cases. If we want to deal with such issues in this country, there won't be a lot of these programs for us and it's good to think about whether or not we have qualified agencies that can carry out this programme in quality regardless of whether they are in Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Mostar or anywhere else, because I think that the capacity of this country is both financial and spatial, etc. One good agency can satisfy quite enough, if it's good, and we can have five, if they're bad, it won't work. Thank you very much. We have registered more for the replicas, the distinguished representative Bešlagić, and the distinguished representative Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20695	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, if it wasn't tragic, it would be ridiculous. It's funny, being set up here to set up an ultimatum. In this House, an ultimatum has long been set up that we need to resolve - the transfer of competence. It's an ultimatum from which you always go and I agree with you, if it's in the Dayton Agreement. And then we agreed that the Council of Ministers would resolve the issue in a way that was most similar. By going to Banja Luka, by going to Sarajevo to the Federation to talk and say what's being passed on, because we're wasting our free time here, we're passing laws that are falling. The Council of Ministers profiles, comes here, the law falls. And well you said Niko, we have this law, here you're just looking for improvement, therefore, it's not about passing jurisdiction but improving the law. Secondly, I would ask my colleagues from the RS, in particular, not to compare RS with the BiH state, to compare it in a system with the Federation where I absolutely agree with you that certain systems in the RS are far better and functional than they are in the Federation. And what is wrong with the Federation, let's go here in Parliament to try to fix it if we need to change and change, and with such proposals you will have absolute support for me and the SDP. Please, in this sense 34 do not compare the RS and the BiH state, they are not identical. Therefore, we are the BiH Parliament, and a growing focus on improving BiH institutions, I think this Parliament has the authority, has the right, and I welcome every move that will lead to this improvement. And, finally, I would like to stress that I have found myself in the dilemma of whether we have a parliamentary majority after these discussions by colleagues from the SNSD that there is no contact and agreement on resolving certain things that should be resolved not only before the session but what you said, minors, constant contacts between Banja Luka, Sarajevo, I speak to the Federation and the State Council of Ministers of BiH. If that's not there, I think we're really wasting our time, because everything that comes from the Council of Ministers, I'm happy, I thought it's over, it's got its own size. I will only mention one example that Matić said the other day, just because the law passed on to the Council of Ministers was not adopted in Parliament, because the SDP was against it because of some literal thing. Mr. Matić resigned, which was a moral resignation. If that's how it works here to pass the laws of the Council of Ministers, there's nothing here, I think definitely that the parliamentary majority should reconsider, and Nikola Špirić, I think morally, as a man who, I would say, is capable of running a business, would not pass those laws, to resign. But I'm not suggesting, I'm suggesting we go to law enforcement. If it doesn't pass, there's a law, but I'm asking you only in these things to act like we respect all the rules we have, and I think it can be arranged. I think he can make a deal if he's willing to make a deal. At this point, I see that, as colleagues have said, this agreement does not exist, which in other words means that this parliament will only implement some peripheral things that do not generally bring profit to the citizens of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20696	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Ekrem Ajanović: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20697	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, it is true that some things should be negotiated in this House, but certain people, and, above all, Drago Kalabić should understand that some things have been agreed on long, long before, which, unfortunately, I don't like to see them agree on. Because I wish they had agreed differently, so that they made a BiH state so that we don't have to argue today about whether we should do this or that. It's a deal, so from some other people and we don't need to talk about it anymore, which is that BiH is a state. Therefore, from that country, from that country that exists, Drago Kalabić and others, regardless of what they live in the RS, wear a BiH passport or perhaps because they have the right to have a passport and other neighbouring countries, perhaps also carry the passport. So there aren't some things we can agree on, they're already agreed on, they have some things we can fix, and as far as this BiH state is concerned, it has to protect 35 and run the Witness Protection Programme. Not the protection of Srbin, the protection of Bošnjak or the protection of Hrvat, but the protection of witnesses, a man who wants to be protected, wants to tell the truth no matter where he lives, whether he lives in RS, BiH, whether he lives in Sarajevo or elsewhere. So there are no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. These powers are given to the state of BiH. And will there be more protection and even better protection at the lower level? Well, I think the minister explained that there's no fear that the lower-ranking courts can't make a decision to protect any witnesses they're even questioning. And I mean, let's just finish this thing the way it is, and that's to end this law, to accept it as such and keep working on other laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20698	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative of Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20699	I don't know, dear colleague Ajanović, did you get that right first thing you said and I could accept a good part of it. What some have agreed not to touch, here's the deal. It also means... if I understand you correctly, there's no room for a deal about it. And you've never heard of me asking these things to be discussed with me. But at the same time, I understood that it was a finished story, and that this is now part of politics. So what we had to agree on, it's over, what we're going to discuss now, it's politics now, and it's left to us. I guess you're admitting to me that I'm a free MP here who's supposed to decide what's good, what's not, what's acceptable, what's not, I understand you that way. And you were probably going to say that you still have to negotiate, that these are also things that can't be discussed but have to be negotiated. But you said what suits me: so here my position is incomparable, if we're a democratic country, you have to respect it on the screen. You don't have to do anything in democracy. That's how I understood it, and I act like it. We here are the questions that you're saying that some of us have agreed, we don't comment at all, and we don't ask them, or the passport, or I don't know, or the borders, or the state, or anything, but underneath that is a line. You want the lines gone and we just have to deal with everything. Or here you go, you tell me where that line is where I'm left, as an MP, to judge on my own, I decide on behalf of the citizens of this country who chose me. 18,000 people voted for me to make a personal decision, aside from the Patria, besides all that. Then I had to tell them - no, I won't decide with my own head, that's what I have to do, and you define yourself as you wish. Another thing, trust and comparison? It will not help you to say that we as parrots should repeat the state, state, state of BiH, it is essentially what it is, whether we have repeated or not, and I have not heard it anywhere, it is just, I think, becoming counterproductive. This is not a matter of RS and BiH, this is a matter of democratic agreements within BiH. Now, the second thing is that you RS are experiencing as, as something controversial, something that shouldn't be negotiated and something that's negative in the beginning and then you have that problem. I only use my democratic right given to me by those who have agreed to give a vote or not to give 36 votes. The fact that you make it up to some majority of this or that, or some story that it is, unfortunately not so, I wish it were different, you have citizens, you have polls, because you remember when this was about BiH institutions and the reputation of these institutions, you remember the story when there was a story about the salary and everything, to what extent the institution of a state MP was brought into this Parliament -- rolled into the mud. Is there a time to think that it's an MP of this state, so let's just say, wait a minute, stop. So it's very hard to put it all together the way you imagined it, but it doesn't suit me, it's absolutely right for me what you said.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20700	Replication response, distinguished Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20701	So there was no mention of RS at all of what Drago Kalabić mentioned. In my discussion, the BiH state was mentioned as, under number one, the state that is in the Constitution... continues to live as a state. And she as a state must protect me as a protected witness, whether I was and witnessed in Sarajevo or Banja Luka, that's the story. Therefore, it is not a transfer of competence, the jurisdiction is already given to the BiH state. And the story is only about that – whether, because you mentioned whether to transfer the jurisdiction from the RS to BiH, that jurisdiction was given, given to the state that was created and which was told in the first member of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20702	Dear Representative Izetbegović: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20703	Okay, as for coffee or coffee, we're not the only ones who can invite coffee, is we, and we're very happy to have coffee and talk about everything and Mr. Kalabić is right, we need to talk more. You know what, as far as genetically modified organisms, nuclear waste, here's witness protection, it's better for every citizen in BiH that this is one uniformly resolved at BiH level, there are no Srbin and Bošnjak, etc. And we stand for it. You know, about nuclear waste, it needs to be handled in a unique way, you remember the story of where, where, where, where the competent places, whether the one from Trebinje pulls up to Banja Luka or goes to Mostar to solve that question. We simply think it's good for all of us, both for you and for us, and we don't tend to take anything capricious from the RS, so we can take it for no reason to the state level. And the normal thing is that you have the right to your opinion and to be dissatisfied. And if you are rightly dissatisfied with a very important institution that controls the quality of food, which is vital to human health, so convince us, and we will be dissatisfied with you, so we will change people, but we will not destroy the institution. And I had my reasons that I publicly stated: I was dissatisfied with the prosecution's work, here about the attack on my rickety father's mesar, and I called my minister, perhaps even excessively, perhaps without reason so much, because I was dissatisfied with the segment of their work, but I won't tear down the institution, I won't say I don't trust them, I have to believe them. People can change, but institutions must, for the sake of common good, support and build on. Thank you. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20704	The next one was announced by Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković. But it's a mistake. No more, no more MPs. Are there any agents? There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20705	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20706	Is it a replica? Another replica, I've already given some three times.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20707	And very briefly, I apologize, given that the Honorable Chairman mentioned the importance of things, essential to this law. This is a very complicated thing and it's not so harmless and get to a solution how to resolve this. You know what a protected witness means, and you know how communists used to solve this situation in BiH. They didn't solve it for no reason the way they did. And what were the rules, I don't know either, and in the security services. And you have to step up a concept of how it's going to work out here and that's not at all, not a harmless question at all, and that's a very sensitive question, and that the question needs to be negotiated. Those who know what matter we're talking about should know, or already know to what extent it's complicated, and that's not a simple thing, this, as we're talking about the Food Agency, I took an example. We, we reacted, we didn't tear down that agency, and I'm sorry to say, I'd like it to work perfectly, it's my wish not to tear it down, but to give this approach to that agency doing its job, to be. And here, we're still realizing that it's wrong and we haven't taken a single step to do that. There's something else here, and there's something else about this question that's very, very sensitive. You know who could happen to be a protected witness, you know in what position that witness can be instrumentalized in. You know who controls the judiciary, that it's still... the judiciary in BiH. The fact is, it's not an honor for us, I guess we all agree on that, I have nothing against foreign judges and prosecutors, but I'd like this country to be in a situation where they're gone, now there are. And then, you have on all sides, each for its own reasons is dissatisfied, each for its own reasons, but there is one general dissatisfaction. And I'd like to break that story if the citizens were to deny us and say they're satisfied, they're satisfied with the judiciary. A man from Prnjavor can't be sentenced to three months in prison, and a few dozen million marks have kept this country from taxing. This is where he ended that story in Sarajevo, didn't finish it down there, this is where he ended it, and he damaged us. When I say us, he's damaged us all, especially down there. And it's a public story all over Prnjavor and everywhere that deal's been achieved. You all know that well who it is and how it happened, but as our problem down there, it's not our problem. That's the problem with this whole country, and if we keep quiet about it, we can accept and talk about it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20708	Dear Minister Sadović asked for a word. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20709	Thank you, Chairman. I only answered to deny some of the claims that I am very disappointed with, which have been made by the honourable MPs. And with the indignity, I really reject Parliament's claims that this law has been planted on someone, that he is a fraud, etc. I'm telling you, that's not what this is about. First of all, she worked as a multiethnic task force to draft this law. Everyone who wanted and wanted to participate and to improve the situation was invited. Here, let me also remind you of some facts if, in this... this difficult legacy of ours and these national matters still play a very large role: that he is a Srbin chief prosecutor, that he is the director of the SIPA, which is where the Witness Protection Department, a Srbin, is that the head of the Witness Protection Department is a Srbin. So, look, these are people from the RS, they're not from somewhere else. That in the process of drafting the law, the institution has been consulted, that we unanimously adopted this law at the Council of Ministers, that Minister Nović had some remarks that I have all accepted. So it's just not clear to me that there is a rational basis for policymaking anymore. After yesterday's experience with the fall of two laws on the Commission, let's say one is the "Law on Border Control" where the Commission said: please agree there with one organisation. We sat in front of the Ministry, all agreed upon. Look, then tell us the arguments that make someone say, "I'm against it." Well, it can't be politics, I'm against something, that I don't have the arguments why I'm against. You can't say for abstract reasons - I'm against this. If you have arguments, we'll respect every argument. But be careful, dispute the principles of this law as it happened to me yesterday, and the law already exists, the law is in force, it doesn't make any sense. So please, no matter what fate this law will be, whether or not it has passed any further procedure, there is some law as it is, it regulates this state. I beg you, therefore, and do not take this as pretentiously as my own, and make it easy for us at the Council of Ministers. Look out, so we're trying there to pass some laws, and, believe me, there's a lot of bile we don't show, we spill it where we need to, but we're finishing some jobs no matter how tough the law is. I ask you in Parliament to help us in this regard. If what we agreed in the Council of Ministers is wrong, change it, change it the way you think. But the worst thing is if the laws go down. Then a really, really bad atmosphere is created. Look, you can't -- we've all been working for a long time, here's colleague Drago Kalabić, colleague Jovičić, we've been doing politics for a long time -- it's incomprehensible that you have a vote in the Council of Ministers for one law, and that from the same party and MPs vote the opposite, that's, it's politically incomprehensible. You can't explain by any argument that that's not the case. And don't be angry that I'm telling you this, and you'd probably tell me this, and it'd be stuck on my nose a hundred times more if it were the other way around. So this is the Parliament where the arguments lie, I ask you once again, so in terms of making a decision, Mr. Kalabić, which you're talking about, you really have the great trust of citizens to be handled by arguments for and against, not abstraction or, I don't know, something else. Here, I thank you again, Chairman. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20710	I thank the Honorable Minister. He would have wanted a respected representative, Husein Nanić, to have applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20711	I thank you, Chairman. I'm sorry I'm not a minister before, since I signed up for Mr. Kalabić's exposure. The fact is, we all came here by the will of the voters, not our own, and to represent certain policies. However, I have tried to discuss fellow MPs who come from the SNSD to find, as far as I am concerned, the reasonable reason why they reject this law and have this attitude, but at the end when the president of the club said it was a professional law, that it was a very complicated law, that, given the experience he has in his life so far, he knows the gravity of this law, I really haven't heard a single argument in the last half-hour of the debate that some element of the law was not right, but rather, it was necessary; so we have heard that maybe some municipal court, local, should provide witness protection, means that this should not be given to an institution that it; and in this small BiH, the question is whether it can be given, and that we should let it go to the level of a local court. I really know that this law, and I am firmly convinced, that by not improving the situation in this area, that we are passing, by passing laws, we are passing laws on the protection of criminals. And I really appeal in that direction that we try to sort this thing out, because the messages that are going today and the conditions we have on the ground give insecurity to people, honest, honest people who would like to make a contribution to crime in education, in the economy and in all other areas. We send a message of uncertainty and people to simply give up those things where they should help the BiH state and the BiH citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20712	Honorable representative Jovičić: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20713	When I was saying that this should also be a matter of jurisdiction of the RS judicial institutions, I didn't mean the Municipal Court or the Court of Cases, because I know it's not their jurisdiction. However, very often here we enter into unserious discussions of law-making, and we are not aware of the consequences. Here's an example, right here, this witness protection institute. Countless witnesses took advantage of this institute and only used lies to obtain a change of identity, a second city and a state, materially all solved for the rest of their lives, etc. I'll tell you - there's not a single institute to protect you if someone's going to kill you, 5,000 people to keep you safe, it's been my job that I know something about. Someone on the planet will find you. But this very institute, given that we are a small country, as it is not possible to respect all this, this law is not even necessary for this country. Why would someone be afraid in their own country to tell the truth in court? What kind of police is this, what kind of justice system is it not to give protection without witness protection? And there, I don't know, putting about 40 dice in front of my head and allowing all possible lies. Anything possible, because you've got it all figured out. You're the biggest, I don't want to offend anyone, that you have nothing to live on, you're not going anywhere better than here, you sign up as a protected witness, and you solve all the problems for yourself and your family, because they're going to transfer you like the prosecution did in The Hague. That's the fear we're talking about. And there's something else I want to say. So we didn't come here to Parliament that we don't know what BiH is and we don't put us in RS as if we don't know what an entity is. We keep repeating – we respect the Constitution as legalists and BiH, this is our country in which the RS is also composed. And let's make a deal with the Federation. And, when these two entities are agreed, let us here then either settle it or we don't solve it. We do not want to say that the Council of Ministers that we have chosen, the parliamentary majority, I tell you honestly about myself – I do not communicate with any minister, nor do I know what they are doing. With none, whether he was a Bošnjak, a Srbin, a Hrvat, because how will I work if, here, I do not want to attack a minister who really works well, if his cabinet does not respect the national structure of the staff, as I further discuss with anyone in his cabinet. And I ask the 2nd session to respect the national structure at the level of BiH institutions. And in that prosecutor's office and in court, it's not our guarantee, Mr. Minister, if it's both the prosecutor and this one, we're not saying it has to be Srbin, because in two years or four years, as long as it's a mandate, it won't be. It is not the law for Srbin, Bošnjak, Hrvat in two years or three as long as they are in office, but for a longer term. That's why we're unseriously getting into all these traps, and that's why I said it was a trap, not that we were being set up by someone who didn't know how to read it. Who will this law protect, who and how? Once again, those who will abuse this institute and lie as in 99% of the cases have been used and abused in the largest judicial facility far away from this country. And we're small, we can't copy them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20714	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20715	What is it, a debate or something?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20716	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20717	Correction of an incorrect quote? Replica, here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20718	Well, you see, people, no one here is forcing anyone or coerced into anything. I beg you, therefore, this law, if it does not have the support of five people from the RS today, will fall and we all know – I have no intention, believe me, that I assure anyone – that this law is good. If the law goes down in the first reading, this is the first reading today, then he's done, there's nothing out of 41 of him. Come on, let's get off the agenda today, I always try to do that when I see this situation, talk to those you trust with the experts. Here, I don't want to cheat on anyone, nor do I want to think of it. I've spoken frankly, and it's obvious there's no trust that can, say, put someone in a position to vote for this law. I want you to consult and then come over here and we'll get a read on this bill. I'm telling you, this law needs it. We all need you, Mr. Jovičić, and me, and each of us, I don't know, over four million people living in this country. One is a protected witness, the other is a witness protection program. Entities have the right to these laws. This program doesn't oblige anyone, it only gives the right to someone. Don't let me repeat that part of my discussion, so don't rule out the right of every man in this country to say at some point - this is the straw I'm going to hang on to. Let's not talk about all possible life situations now, man is neither guilty nor obliged to be in that position. And then he begs Bog to hold onto something to get into position. And we live, we watch a movie, thank Bog we haven't had it in some excessive amount in BiH so far, we watch what's going on around the world, we follow movies, we follow events. So one is a protected witness, one is a program. When you consult, then let us come to decide that, that we don't tear it down today, because it won't pass. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20719	Dear Representative Kalabić: debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20720	Here, I'll be brief since everything's been said. I'm sorry to say it this way, but two things I have to say. The minister mentioned it as the basis for the agreement that it was a strong argument that it was a multiethnic task force. In this situation when we have this kind of political relationship, it should be something stronger than a working group. I think the time of the working groups, in this way, has passed and that those at this level should not be mentioned. We are not going into how the very creation of the initial concept of the law, any, I'm not just talking about this law now, but I think it's quite clear to you here that it's become degutant to refer to working groups and avoid other kind of agreement, another kind of agreement that guarantees the adoption of the law, because there's also someone who doesn't communicate with someone or does not prepare the conditions that allow us to make decisions. It means that we make decisions no matter what we think, what we think of it. In this story, too, that we're not throwing some demagogue now that we're going to solve God knows what, this is really a serious debate and no one has said what the result is going to be. This is the first reading, this is the first reading. I said earlier: as we determine ourselves, so we talk about amendments, so let's see... what the story of the amendment is, well... not that we're sniveling things, but especially don't send people a message that this will solve the issue of crime in BiH because people go out with open breasts and offer evidence and don't seek any protection and talk about crime and offer evidence in all courts, and that's not respected, and that's not respected. And now we, running away from this reality, are going to have this problem of a man in front of the media and telling everyone the evidence of crime and criminals. Now, you'd say that to me - this will work out. I mean, this is a serious 42 thing and it needs to be discussed, found some kind of solution, but the fact that this fight against crime at this stage in BiH doesn't have much to do with us being able to solve open evidence where people offer, stab you, stick your finger in the eye with a bunch of evidence of crime and all that. When we exhaust what they're offering, then we'll find somewhere, probably, what Mr. Džaferović was talking about, someone who might get caught up in something like that, and they'll say they're looking for that protection, because the crowd of people is walking the streets and offering prosecutors and judges evidence. These obviously, I don't know, that I don't elaborate for which reasons I can't accept them or they don't want them or I can't sort of process them.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20721	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the ninth item of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) On 30 July 2008, the Council of Ministers submitted a proposal for this law to the procedure. For the committee responsible, the College has appointed a Joint Commission on European Integration. On 11 September, the Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional legal basis. The competent commission delivered its opinion on the principles on 23 September 2008. The commission, as you have seen, has accepted the principles of the proposed law. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Is there anyone in front of the president? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20727	So, the thing is, I've already, it seems to me, on two occasions, explained what this is all about. It is a law which is of a technical nature, which is in fact the order of order, after amendments and additions, of the provision of the amended CAP, so the order of the members, the nomenclature, nothing more, is in line. It was an obligation for us in the Constitutional Commission and we decided to come out here with this bill of law. I suggest you accept it. ... nothing he edits new compared to what Parliament, amendments and additions to this law, has already accepted. 44 So much, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20728	Thank you. I don't have any charges to argue with. Does anyone want to discuss it? I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda: Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission – Proposer: Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović (first reading) On 1 September 2008, legislator Jerko Ivanković Lijanović submitted the draft law from this point, with a request for an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. At the 34th session, Dom discussed the request for an emergency procedure. After this urgent request was not adopted, the House did not adopt a brief procedure. We therefore consider this bill in a regular manner. The committee responsible is the Constitutional Commission. We received the opinion of this committee on September 22nd. In its opinion, the Commission concluded that there was a valid constitutional basis, but did not accept the principles of the proposed law. We, therefore, are discussing and deciding on the opinion of this committee which has not adopted the principles of the proposed law. I'm opening a debate on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. Does the bill promoter want to? He does. Here you go. Dear Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20730	Fellow Members and colleagues, distinguished guests, how well it is when MPs propose laws, can never happen that the proposing is not at the session. Always there, we can always argue, it might be a good practice if we started to apply it in a larger volume than we have so far. I will point out in three areas that perhaps this commission has not seen enough and where it might be good to reject the Commission's report and accept the law in the first reading. It practically regulates the right or obligation to vote where we have more than 30 countries in the world who have imposed an obligation to vote in the elections, not just the right as we do in BiH. They even have countries with 45 major democratic traditions and some have introduced it, even, 70-80 years ago, and I think it would be very good, since we have a young democracy in BiH, that we also introduce a mandatory vote like that in that country. The second area regulates sanctions for those who do not respect that obligation. In most of these countries, it is the sanctions of a financial nature, that if someone does not go to the polls, some even deny them some rights in the election of certain duties in the coming period. Given the economic situation in BiH, I felt that penalties would not be appropriate for our citizens because they do not go to elections, but rather that we have this reverse situation – to compensate people for the costs. Many will wonder where these money comes from, how to make money? But when we look at our foreign trade deficit, if 1% of the funds we lose through that foreign trade deficit can cover all the costs of all the voters who go out every two years. And even this law, so formulated, may have some small and social character that even the citizens of this country every two years get some money. For these reasons, I think it would be good to reject the opinion of this committee and essentially accept the law in the first reading and then the amendment, if anyone has suggestions, to fix it, are welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20731	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee, since we are discussing the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, the Honorable Chairman of the Committee, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20732	So, colleagues and colleagues, I call on you to support a negative report by the Constitutional Commission, because this law proposed by Honorable counterpart Lijanović cannot be accepted. So, he represents, he is completely contrary to the concept of an electoral system that exists in BiH called the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law. So he's completely opposed to that concept. Our concept is completely different. It is true that there are some countries in the world, here we heard the other day, say Australia, Mr Lijanović, to help you, so Australia – there is a group, or president of the Senate in BiH – they have an obligation, so they have an obligation to vote and have prescribed sanctions for those who do not vote. And now one big debate can be held – what is democracy? Is democracy when, of course, it's democratic when you have the authority that everyone who lives in that country is declared, but whether it's more democratic to leave someone at will to take advantage of a right or not, or to force sanctions on it, it's now a big debate on that subject, on the subject of democracy, and I don't want to get into that thing, but you don't actually offer us such a law. I think our system in BiH is better. I told that and our friends that I think it's better, because not to vote is a vote, so when you give a man the right. But you don't offer it here either, you're only offering a reward here you, who gets 100 marks and doesn't have any sanctions. Look, you don't offer the concept mandatory, we can't even talk about it. 46 Therefore, not to speak now, not to say I am saying that this is completely dislocated from the economic environment of BiH. We have elections in BiH every two years, at least every two years, and every two years 300 million marks are to be set aside, 100 marks times 3 million voters is 300 million marks every two years. In four years, 600 million marks on that alone. I mean, it's another absurd that's totally unacceptable. These stories about reducing the external trade deficit, increasing the surplus, etc., I think they are, you see for yourself how it goes. And the third thing, so if this concept were to be adopted in BiH, then a complete electoral system of BiH would have to be systematically changed, not by one member, as the people say, to try to chew the Electoral Law and then to make confusion. Your solutions must be consistent. Here, I thought you were really kidding when you offered this. I see you're serious, so now I've had to answer you seriously. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20733	Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković has been reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20734	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't support this law on the Constitutional Commission. Today I will support the Constitutional Commission Report. But I have to say, this isn't all crazy. In some ways, this law, in part, represents the legalisation of the activities that the parties in power led in this election campaign, and on the other hand it has a social line and a line of justice, because what was divided evenly with all 100 and not some would get 1,000 and a half 2,000, and others did not get anything and went to the vote. So, he has this dose of justice within him, it also contains legalization of the activities of the parties that are in power and, on the other hand, perhaps, in the future time we need to make an analysis of how much money the parties have spent, so you will see that this is not much less spent, in this way in the election campaign, than Mr. Jerko said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20735	Thank you. I don't have any more charges to argue with. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda: 47 Ad. 12. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, police and state officials of Bosnia and Herzegovina in peace support operations for the period from 1.9.7 to 29.2.2008 The foreign ministry delivered a report to Parliament from this point on 19 July. As you could see in the material, the report was adopted by both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH. The responsible Defence and Security Committee delivered its Opinion on the Report on 11 September 2008. In its opinion, the competent committee proposes: - That the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly consider and decide on the Report in accordance with Articles 16 and 17. The law, that the Report should be adopted without part of point 7 concerning the decision on new missions of BiH Armed Forces in Afghanistan (Isaf) and Sudan (Unamid) as in the Opinion, and part of point 8 relating to the decision on the new mission of police officers in Sudan (Unamid) as in the opinion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20739	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20740	On what grounds? Question, Honorable representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20741	... This is where the Joint Commission proposed to adopt a report without part of point 7 concerning the decision on new missions of BiH Armed Forces members in Afghanistan, 10.5 to 10 sub-offices, etc., and section 8. – for new missions, the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers should make prior decisions that will then be confirmed, subject to confirmation in parliamentary procedure. [[no microphone turned on]] So we have a report here, and then we have to, first make decisions. I don't know what this committee wants to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20742	Do any of the members of this committee want to answer this question to everyone, not just through the bench? Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović. Since he expressed his desire to answer through the bench, let him answer everyone like this to the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20743	Mr. Chairman, you have me first to warn, of course, if I disturb the order, I try not to. So, when a report on participation is read and a report of our commission is read, then it will be seen that these two things are compatible. You know, therefore, that in BiH it is possible to refer members only if the appropriate decision is made by the appropriate authority and if it is confirmed within a certain period by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Nothing else this commission has written in its report. Now the question is why is it listed here in the report of this committee. When you look at the report, its order, order, plans and everything else, then you see why, why is this listed in the report of this committee. So much, nothing more. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20744	I would like to thank the honourable representative Džaferović. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. Annual Progress Report (monitoring the implementation of Action Plan 1 of the Public Administration Reform Strategy in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Council of Ministers' material) You've received the Annual Report from this point. At its 41st session, the College of the House concluded that it had asked the Council of Ministers for information on the state of the problem in the field of public administration, so the Council of Ministers, following the implementation of this conclusion, provided the Annual Report from this point. The College sent the Annual Report to the Constitutional Legal Commission to give an opinion. We received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission on September 22nd. In its opinion, the Constitutional Commission finds that it supported the material at this point and suggests the following conclusions: ’ 1. It is necessary to initiate a session of the Co-ordination Committee on Economic Development and European Integration with a view to addressing identified problems, ensuring a further coordinated approach and continuing political support for the implementation of reform measures, in line with the Joint Platform on the principles and method of implementation of Action Plan 1 of the Public Administration Reform Strategy in BiH. 2. The institutions and bodies of the administration at the levels covered by the Public Administration Reform Strategy are required to have a higher degree of cooperation and accountability in implementing reform measures, exchange and supply of information, with a view to more effective coordination and monitoring of the activities undertaken and achieved. 3. It is necessary to strengthen the position and role of the Public Administration Reform Coordinator, in particular the Government of the Federation and the Government of the RS, and to improve the coordination of other structures for the implementation of measures and activities under Action Plan 1 by appointed representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, the Government of the Federation of BiH, the Government of the RS and the Government of the Brcko District in BiH. 4. It is necessary to continue to develop coordination and consultation mechanisms of the managing authority of all levels because of the agreed action towards donors and the more efficient use of donor assistance.’ In connection with this report, the sitting is the present lady, or should be present, whether present, she was informed, Mrs Nevenka Savić, Public Administration Reform Coordinator within this point. I would also like to remind you that yesterday, on 6 October of this year, we received a proposal 50 declarations of good administration adopted by the Constitutional Commission and proposed that it be included in the agenda of the next House session. Here, so much for the opening notes. The Honorable Chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20746	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to this item of the agenda, given its importance and given the fact that the House of Representatives, and I think the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, has not addressed this issue so far. It is a strategy for the development of governance in BiH. So, on the progress of the public administration in BiH and one of the basic things, we have heard a lot from the media so far about the existence of this strategy, about the existence of action plans, etc., but so far Parliament has not had a chance to deal with these things. I am not asking that (Stragegija is adopted, Action Plan 1 is adopted, this Action Plan 2 will be adopted) to control something, but to encourage institutions dealing with this topic, to do their job more effectively and to do as successfully as possible. That is why one of the key things proposed by the Constitutional Commission in its report, in addition to these conclusions on the need to activate the co-ordination team, etc., that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should be regularly informed of the progress of the administration reform in BiH. As is known, the BiH Council of Ministers made appropriate decisions on the establishment of this team in 2004, and the Public Administration Reform and Action Plan 1 for Public Administration Reform was signed in 2006 in BiH. Action Plan 1 of public administration reform covers six certain functions of administration or functional capacity of the administration, and only the state and entity level. He doesn't get into the cantonal and municipal level of administration. But this is where our team chief, or coordinator, came in, I wouldn't talk about this, she'll explain later which six areas it is. Action Plan 2 should again contain, as it is said, certain sectors, this would be a sectoral action plan for health, education, return, justice, police, economy, the environment, social, etc. But I just want to call on this discussion House of Representatives to support the Constitutional Commission's report and its opinion that it therefore supports this team, that it requires regular notification and that it invites all those who must participate in the work of this institution to participate, because there are problems in functioning. I would ask, especially Mrs. Savić, to point out here the problems she has, because we here need to help her and her team get this job going as well as possible. Here, that's what I had to say. The Constitutional Commission also proposed to us yesterday a declaration, namely a resolution here in this House, 'Resolution on Good Administration', and it will also be in the procedure tomorrow morning before the session itself begins. Parliament will have to make a statement about it, whether it will go to the commission, whether it will not go to the commission, but also enters the procedure, and it is part of the Constitutional Commission's obvious package on this strategy and Action Plan 1. That's it, thank you. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20747	Thank you. Does Mrs. Savić want to speak? Here you go. Ms. Nevenka Savić, Public Administration Reform Coordinator.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20748	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the House of Representatives, representatives of the Council of Ministers, international organisations, public information funds, dear colleagues from the Secretariat, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to brief you on the process of public administration reform and progress made. The reform of the public administration is based on a clear vision of the development of a more efficient and professional administration. The reformed administration aims to provide citizens with better quality services at less cost, to operate on the basis of transparent and open procedures, and to meet all the conditions set by European integration, in order to allow continued and sustainable socio-economic development. Public administration reform is one of the key priorities of the European partnership and conditions for EU membership, and progress in reform has been confirmed in the latest report by the European Commission on BiH's annual progress, as well as at the latest meeting of the monitoring of the reform process. The executive government in BiH is committed to the European principles of good administration that its representatives, chaired by the Council of Ministers, the prime ministers of entity governments and the mayor of the Brcko District and confirmed by adopting, i.e., the State of the Public Administration Reform Strategy and Action Plan 1 for its implementation. The Joint Platform on the principle and method of implementation of Action Plan 1 has established mechanisms for implementation from the highest political level through supervisory to operational level. The Memorandum of Understanding also established the Public Administration Reform Fund, which plays an important role in supporting the implementation of the Public Administration Reform Strategy. The 4.5m-euro donor funds intended to implement the projects set out in Action Plan 1 will provide concrete support to this reform process. The co-ordinator's office is the first home institution entrusted with operational management of the Fund, more specifically with donor money. The structure of implementation of the Action Plan, which includes state, entity and co-ordinator of the Brcko District, has also been developed. All strategic documents signed by the highest representatives of the executive authority covered by this reform process, i.e. The state level, entities and Brcko, can be found on our website. Action Plan 1 covers six horizontal systems identified as priority areas where capacity needs to be improved. These are policy-making and coordination capacities, public finances, human potential management, administrative process, institutional communication of information technology. For each of these areas, the Action Plan contains activities, proposes measures and establishes responsible institutions for implementation. In the next phase of the reform, which is the office's task in the coming period, is to design Action Plan 2 that should cover capacity building in sectors. The annual report, which you have ahead of you, is the first official review of progress in six reform areas, documentary evidence of meeting the measures. The Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office has developed a mechanism for monitoring progress, and the Annual Report is made up of 52 co-operation with entity coordinators, the Brcko District Coordinator and supervisory teams. Through this report, progress can be monitored in certain reform areas, at administrative levels and overall. I would point out that the reform in the current framework does not involve a complete public sector, but only a state service. The co-ordinator's office has already submitted a second quarterly report for 2008, adopted by the Council of Ministers, and in the process is the collection and processing of data for the reporting period 1.7. - 30.9. The Fund's Management Board has so far approved the financing of six projects for the implementation of Action Plan 1, prepared by our office, whose total estimated value is 2 million and 786 thousand marks. The projects are training of information officers, an info-police network, a programme for improving administrative decision-making, strategic communication, an information system for budget management and the creation and establishment of an interoperability framework and standards for data exchange. Six more projects are being prepared to run for the Fund Management Board. In addition, some projects under way or in preparation are not financed through the Fund but by other donors. Co-ordinating activities in public administration reform, we have seen that it is necessary, among other things, to improve communication with the Office of Coordinators from all levels of government, primarily in the process of reporting on progress of reform, to improve co-operation with donors in a way that informs the Office regularly about donor activities. Further, strengthen the capacity and organisation of the Office in view of the scope of the reforms and obligations of the administration arising from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and raise the general level of awareness of the need for public administration reform. In view of all of the above, we support the proposal of the Constitutional Legal Commission at home to adopt a declaration of good governance that would express support for the sustainable development of institutions of administrations capable of carrying out tasks in an effective way that will respect the principles of democracy, human rights, social justice, the security of citizens, environmental protection and economic and efficient management of resources. I would also like to inform you that, in line with the discussion on the Constitutional Legal Commission concerning the operationality of supervisory teams, we have prepared complete information that will be on-corporated in the July–September report, and we will also deliver it to the chairman of the Constitutional Legal Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20749	I thank you. I thought I'd open the debate now, but I won't. I'll give it to you after my break. Now I'm supposed to interrupt this session for lack of quorum, but I'm not going to do it now, and I'm not going to do it either, because it's going to pull out of business, so I'm probably going to have to break it up completely then. I'm taking a break from an hour, so until 2:30. Here's to exploit all your needs, and invite your clubmates to try to be here so they can continue their work. 53 [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please take your seats to continue our work. We're at the 13th point of the established agenda. We've had opening statements and I'm opening a debate on this agenda item. I don't have any reports. There is. Excuse me. Dear Representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20751	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members, I am, here, preparing for this item of the agenda, indeed in detail all the information that has been given to us here and given this name of the agenda point, otherwise, and on progress in BiH, it is little to me, bringing me into a situation of some confusion in all this information, in all this consideration of our progress towards the EU, that is, our fulfillment of our obligations and the assessment of these obligations. In fact, we have, in addition to this document, a little consultation of the 2007 BiH Progress Report, which has, I don't know, 57-59 pages, has one page on public administration, on the progress of public administration. I would first of all like to ask the question of the relationship of the problem... by observing BiH's progress towards Parliament, towards the institutions. If we work in this way, does this mean that in the next 30 sessions we will have each segment of the report on the progress of all those sectoral policies and everything that this document should contain or we will have one quality review of the overall progress report, as we have presented by the European Commission in the 2007 document on these 57 pages which could generally give an assessment of the progress and progress certainly and the public administration in this context? I think this is for us as a home – what is the goal after this and what conclusions can be drawn on the basis of the debate on this document? I think here we're going to lose ourselves a little bit in, really, the need to observe and evaluate progress and give certain conclusions on how to move on. We got here the position of the Constitutional Legal Commission "for". I appreciate that we really should have had a clear view of the Commission for European Integration, given that these are certain obligations, and that we should have, perhaps, views and other committees on progress on public administration. And the next thing I'd like, not to be too long, to realize that that progress is below 20% in general. I listened to the lady who runs, who is our coordinator...and I listened: it was more of a theory, not what really this administration, or our office should do, and I can say that as an MP I can't say at all that I'm satisfied with. That 20% and less than 20%, depending again on the part of the country to which it applies, is generally passed, and then we have eight recommendations here in that document. Of these eight, four recommendations are contained in recommendations, or conclusions from our commission, but I am indeed, here I don't know if you've had a chance to deal with it, read it. First recommendation: initiate a meeting of the Co-ordination Committee. Does that mean that this coordination board is in session? Who's going to initiate the Parliamentary Assembly? Either it's someone out there, the Council of Ministers, or who? So, initiate the sessions, so no, they're not sitting. Another 54 recommendations from the authorities at the level of the general public administration reform strategy: to request a higher degree of co-operation and accountability. Who ask for a higher level of responsibility? Next, on the question of compensation for the work of appointed representatives in the implementation structures. Isn't that settled, too? And we're talking about strategy and we're talking about progress reports. And these other recommendations are in this text, in this, follow such a recommendation, I really think that this state which is and the level of progress in this area, which has occurred, and the way that it can't get a passing assessment and that it requires really urgent activity of the competent institutions. Not that we're asking them to sit down, but that whoever hasn't sat down so far to really consider it, and in that sense I couldn't commend the work of our team. And the following for us, here as an MP, as far as the Parliamentary Assembly is concerned – I really think that we should have had a full document of the 2007 progress report on BiH in all segments, not just in this segment of public administration.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20752	I thank the esteemed representative, Nanić. The following is the registered honourable representative Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20753	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, firstly, is already progressing that this point is included in the session of our House of Representatives and that the House of Representatives has actually become involved in such an important reform as administration reform. In fact, in my court, without good administration, there's no good country. If we don't make good resource management, then, for God's sake, we're black-listed. I can't be unhappy with this report, actually on the Constitutional Commission, it was one much bigger and larger debate and more extensive discussion of the percentages and the successes, which my predecessor was saying, but when we take into account the office's work, when we take into account the difficulties in this complicatedly structured state with a certain reformal state, and I won't just say reformal but also the setting up of certain bodies, then I can, from that aspect, look, be satisfied with the progress made in good administration...which this reform is trying to implement. Certainly, there were no difficulties here, difficulties that were in the formation of this office and the work of the office, and even difficulties that still exist in the work of the office, according to the fullness of the staff, etc. and a percentage that is slightly higher than 25%, because there's not everything that's been made there, so I can give a positive report and, in fact, I voted for it as a positive on the Constitutional Commission, and I think that the Constitutional Commission's conclusions reflected everything that should reflect in these today's conclusions and adding a declaration of good administration that I'm sure will adopt this home. Then I think that we would round up one matter, with what I would suggest is that in the future the reports sent to the Council of Ministers, means as an institution that formed this office, that from time to time they must be found on the table of MPs, that we too are having a certain debate on progress in this reform of the administration. Although we're only talking about administration reform now, let's assume from state to canton, entity and canton, because public-level management reform, it's, by my court, and as far as I'm aware, a lot of progress, so here in some of the municipalities that I know, we have very good results. 55 What else should we suggest for the future? This is that domestic resources should be employed to continue the implementation of this project. Not only do we wait for these donations that serve us to improve the administration, but that we must certainly include our domestic resources in this so that the reform can succeed. In particular, if we take into account the exposure of the lady or the lady – I could not get into it now, but mostly both could be given by appearance and formation – when we really expect that the reform of the sector is in front of us starting with health, justice, education, economy, police, environmental protection, social protection, etc. All in all, I support this report as a whole. I support the conclusions proposed by the Constitutional Commission and this declaration, which was proposed at yesterday's session of the Constitutional Commission, although I did not attend the session for family reasons. Here, I'd like that. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I, of course, have held almost 60 sessions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20755	Thank you. No more reports. Would you like to comment? Dear Mrs. Nevenka Savić, Public Administration Reform Coordinator.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20756	Thank you. I would first try to explain only a little to the honourable MP Memić about the relationship, (?) I'm going to Nanić. ...I'm really sorry about your question. So I can only speak here from the position of the Public Administration Reform Coordinator on other issues mentioned in the European Partnership in the European Commission's report and on other things that are a prerequisite for approaching the European Union. It is therefore a topic for other people from the executive authority who are in charge of these areas. And on the subject of public administration reform, I didn't want to take up too much of your time, so I didn't in that sense make some chronology in my presentation, but here maybe I should say in just a few sentences that in 2003, a meeting of the Peace Implementation Council, on its initiative, adopted a document called Public Administration Reform, our programme. It found that the BiH administration does not meet the needs of neither the BiH citizens, nor does it have the preconditions needed to join the EU. And then in BiH, in fact, activities started a little more intense in this area. At the end of 2004, a Coordinator's Office was formed, 56 organised by the Chair's Office of the Council of Ministers and which until a year and a half ago had only seven employees. In this previous period, significant progress has also been made in the capacity of the Office, so it is now more than 30 people. I would also like to say, in my opinion, it is very important that, as Professor Ajanović said, this activity started, because the EU that constantly follows the process of progress in all reform areas and for this area has been constantly giving negative assessments. At this point, that grade is positive. At the last RPM meeting, it is... monitoring the process of progress of reforms, progress has been seen in the reform of the public administration in BiH, and in this last document, which contains 30 conditions that were to be met by the end of September this year, we were set up as a condition that the Public Administration Reform Fund is operational. And we have thus fulfilled what was expected of our Coordinator's Office at this point. Of course, it is a very large, wide and complicated area, given that in our jurisdiction there is only coordination of activities, and that, I must say, at the state level, entities and Brcko District, while the local administration is in the jurisdiction of entity ministries, the Ministry of Justice of the Federation, the Ministry of Administration and local self-government of the RS. So now it's a state, entity level and in fact a reform involving a state service, not a whole public sector. Here's only so much to explain, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20758	I thank Mrs. Savić. No more reports. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Moving to point 14 Ad. 14. Proposal for a conclusion of the 10th plenary session of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, held in 30.7.2008, in connection with meeting obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement I remind you, at the 10th session of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, following the debate on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, a conclusion was adopted in which the conclusions were drawn in the debate, addressed to the Joint Committee on European Integration, and to give an opinion on the proposed conclusions and, accordingly, to the adoption of conclusions on which this committee takes a positive position. The Commission followed the conclusion of the session, the joint session, and the 10.9th submitted a Opinion proposing the adoption of the six-point conclusions agreed on on this committee. You've been given the commission's opinion. I'm opening a debate. I don't have any charges to argue with. Dear Representative Jozo Križanović. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20760	Well, I can see there's not much mood to talk about these conclusions, but I would still do an intervention here, at least in precision. You see, a joint session of both homes was held on 30.7., and we, in the first proposal, conclude that within 30 days of the House of Representatives and the House of People, is delivered for consideration of the Action Plan. As far as I know, the Action Plan was only considered yesterday at the Council of Ministers, so let's update this conclusion bar so it can fit into some of the terms that will give this home some credibility, but we're already used to, therefore, that very much of our conclusions deviate from the given terms. Here's my suggestion: This is transforming itself into some kind of realistic conclusion. So, since that session, it's been two and a half months, that action plan is still missing.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20761	Dear Representative Branko Dokić, let the distinguished representative Denis Bećirović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20762	Mr. Chairman, I have one conditional proposal, if these conclusions are voted and passed, among other things, and point 5. - then I propose that both homes form an ad hoc commission that will discuss the rules of procedure of both homes' work as soon as possible in terms of the creation of joint committees, and I believe that this would then be a significant step towards increasing the efficiency of our work in the preparation of home sessions, as well as in increasing the efficiency of the logistics support of all these services that are accompanied by the work of both homes. So if this goes away, then I suggest we form a commission right now... here's Azra being offered along with me to work on that committee (this is what I said).
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20763	We'll keep that in mind. The following is the registered honourable representative Denis Bećirović, and let the distinguished representative Martin Raguž be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20764	On the occasion of this item of the agenda, I would like to say that this point and this topic represent, now without any strain, it is freely possible to say, a classic example of the slowdown of BiH's European path and of new serious obstructions on BiH's path towards the EU, both in the debate of this issue and in the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We are here on July 31st, here I have a proposal and a voting list, so more than two months ago asked in Parliament for the BiH House of Representatives to be heard about all the conclusions arising from the debate. At that time, however, the House of Representatives refused to vote on those conclusions. Probably those who voted against it thought we weren't late anywhere and we had plenty of time. 58 I must say, personally, in September, I once again asked that this be the point of the agenda and it was rejected again. And here today, after more than two months, we have that agenda point. I want to say, therefore, on the occasion of this agenda point, that no one can deny that we have been late for years in signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and that unfortunately we were the last country in Southeast Europe to do so. And it's over now. However, I regret that this story is repeated now and when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement should be implemented. And we're already starting for months and months to be late in some things, and probably, as it started, if this trend continues in a few years, we'll be able to figure out that we're even years behind schedule. In the proposal for this agenda, we also received the opinion of the Joint Commission on European Integration of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I would like to say that this commission is also a bit slow to react in some things, and that this commission should be significantly more agile and initiative than it has been so far. Let's say in the proposal for these conclusions, the matter is repeated again that the Parliamentary Assembly is calling on the European Community to grant BiH and other countries candidate status as soon as possible. I think that we will not speed up this path to the EU at all by declaringly calling on the EU to give us certain things. It should take this issue seriously and try to do and meet the conditions the EU expects from BiH. These are no longer foggy conditions, but clearly prescribed conditions as they were for other countries in the EU accession process. I must say, although the College accepted the proposal of my conclusion, there is a problem here because we are already three months behind schedule, and I also said at the end of July that the Council of Ministers of BiH had an obligation before signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement to deliver an action plan for the implementation of the Agreement. It was unanimously adopted by the parliament through the resolution on the acceleration of BiH's European path. Unfortunately, we haven't had it before, we haven't, here's three or four months after, a plan like that again. Of course, I will not abuse this item of the agenda so as to illustrate with some other things how the BiH Council of Ministers has been irresponsibly acting against certain things that have been given by the EU, especially when it comes to these pre-accession funds. Here you see, let's say, the BiH Council of Ministers wants to set up an IPA Steering Board, although it is very clear in EU criteria that it should be done by the IPA state coordinator. This is one serious issue that we will raise, but only shows that in this country and this parliament, especially when it comes to the parliamentary majority, it has not stopped the practice that the EU is adapting BiH and slightly abnormal criteria in BiH, rather than after the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and that this country, standards and conditions are adapting to the EU.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20765	I thank the esteemed representative Bećirović. The next is the renowned representative Martin Raguž, and let the distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20766	I thank you, Mr. President. 59 So, we have before us the proposal for a conclusion offered by the Joint Commission for European Integration on the basis of discussions at both chambers. I was one of the supporters of the conclusions, invited as such to this committee's session, and I think the Commission for European Integration has done a great job. And here we have clear and precise conclusions, and what we need to do today is not go back when, what, how, but as of today, as of today 7.10, these deadlines that are listed here begin to flow. And here, as of today, the deadline would be 30 days for the Council of Ministers to submit to the Parliamentary Assembly such an action plan with all measures, precise deadlines, executioners, and institutional assumptions to create this. It's a big deal. I think we need to get out of the electoral rhetoric and start to realise this conclusion proposal from today. The second thing, point 5 of these conclusions, says: 'In order to work more efficiently and to use available personnel both homes will change their rules of procedure. (that is what the Parliament refers to). We have a situation here that we have the Ad hoc commission – I think this is a significant commitment and what Mr. Dokić was saying is that we need together with the House of Peoples, and we already have our members in Ad hoc, let them name it, and let us do this quickly, not to talk but to do it. Let's unify the procedures and get to work. Let us first do our part of the obligation and make this action plan concerning BiH institutions, because it is well balanced here, and it is required of the entity's parliaments that they also adopt their action plans and that these deadlines, that is our proposal, start from today's day. And not to talk about milk anymore, when, what, who could, but to approach the realization of these conclusions, to adopt them today and to report these deadlines here to the public and these homes. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20767	I thank the esteemed representative Raguž. Next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20768	You see, Mr. Chairman, I've actually had a discussion taken by Mr. Raguž. So, I just wanted to say that there is an Ad hoc committee for the Rules of Procedure with us formed to take, of course, safe to consider already at the next session, if these conclusions are adopted, this question. But that question cannot be resolved without the House of Nations, so I did not give up the discussion just because of this sentence. In fact, I think it would be good if the House of Representatives invited the House of Peoples to form its ad hoc commission so that we could eventually finish the job. Because, finally, both in this commission and committee of the House of Peoples, they're going to have to sit together on issues that are impossible to solve, so especially, and I'm afraid we're going to be late if that job doesn't go very quickly, and I have to say that we've lost a lot of time too, and only how long will those who haven't gone to that job yet. Thank you. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20769	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20770	Dear Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I think it is necessary, in the capacity of the chairman of this Joint Commission for European Integration, a few reviews. It is important to us every month in the environment in which the region and BiH were located. But believe that far more important than that than a month or two is the fact that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly will adopt parts of action plans to implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement twice a year and that the Council of Ministers will report on the implementation of these action plans twice a year. When we discussed the conclusions on this committee, we had in mind what was proposed and we united, mostly, and satisfied all very high-quality proposals. There were suggestions within two months, within 40 days. We made sure that they were real suggestions, that they were viable deadlines. And they're doable. The Council of Ministers has already done its Action Plan on the Agreement. The Partnership Action Plan has been done with shortcomings because there are 25 open issues located by the RS, but the Action Plan has been prepared. And these action plans within these proposed deadlines will be able to attend the session. In this regard, as we discuss this, certain issues of the Stabilisation Agreement are being addressed. They're not waiting for the action plan to be adopted. In addition, it should be borne in mind that the Action Plan, namely the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, is being implemented for six years and that it is far more important to establish quality relations and the quality position of the Parliamentary Assembly at this beginning than to slave once than two months. So I think with deadlines like this, if we respect this, we can be very pleased. As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, the Working Party for the Construction of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives is already working on it. The people's home should finally respond to our memos and they should do the same. Finally, I would like to say that the calls made here in the sixth conclusion in terms of granting candidate status to the countries of the region, of course, do not come from the fact that we do not know that it will be very important how the conditions are met. We are starting, of course, from the realization that the position of the region is specific, that interdependence, security and stability and political and each other in the region is extremely connected and that some countries' experience says that very often the European Commission's decision on candidate status is very often and politically motivated. And we have the right to and the right to make a call to this kind of European Commission, taking into account everything that has happened in these areas and taking into account everything that has been achieved in these areas, including in BiH at this time. I view the full fact that many in this process of European integration could be more agile and... and the Commission for European Integration, that it could be much more agile, and that it could do much more work. However, the work of the Commission for European Integration, other than what is meant by seminars, improvements, 61 talks, declarations, has exhausted the commission. The Commission needs proposals for legislative acts. It needs an active and responsible position of full commitment of the Council of Ministers and needs other commitment from other institutions that the Commission for European Integration should deliver to the Commission in the competence of the Commission for European Integration. Today, in one part of the debate, we had a touching topic that was illustrated here. Namely, in a way and tang to what is present in BiH. We really with this approach, I have information that what was delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly from tomorrow's session, exhausted. For the next session, if this continues, we won't have anything to talk about, and I really think that, starting with our commitment and the adopted declaration here at the Parliamentary Assembly, that all European integration is a priority, I think we need these coffees or coffees, which are spoken of, we should really start drinking, because I other ways to get out of this stagnation I don't see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20771	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20772	Chairman, I really don't want to be too long with this, but you see, I'd like to remind you of one, in my opinion, very important thing. So, who remembers the debate and the essence of the debate on the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we appreciated the real situation and the deadlines that BiH has for meeting these obligations. And you see, then the point of the debate was to create an action programme within 30 days of the date on which that session was held. We today are satisfying the form, as my colleague Raguž suggests, so we didn't mean 30 days but 90 days. Is that the point? Is this what this Parliament needs to cover the dissatisfaction of a particular institution that has a specific and specific task? Our session of this committee could have been held in December, and then again a month would have been the deadline for what we meant seriously, what we thought in this debate to start. So, I'm very unhappy if today we accept that 30-day deadline for the action programme... for which time it's already taken to do a lot for this year. Here, that's what I wanted as a single replica. So here's the important thing. In that debate, have we had in mind 30 days since that session or any session? Why didn't we have that in the last session? Or we didn't have to do it today, so then again at the next session we could discuss this end of the month, and again it's worth a month for that action plan. So, I'm either in favour of harmonising this with this or saying in one conclusion that the Council of Ministers did not respect the conclusion of this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20773	I thank the esteemed representative Križanović. 62 No more reported by this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Consideration of the possibility of continuing the procedure for the appointment of the Ombudsman for BiH human rights and deputy general auditor from the Bosniak people Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests, although you have received information in writing regarding this point, I will, for the sake of transcription and for the sake of the public, present this information. It's about the next one. A joint session of the College of Both Homes was held in order to resolve the problem in connection with the appointment of the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH and the deputy chief auditor from the Bosniak people on 10 September 2008. Business opportunities have been sought to end proceedings without breach of the laws governing the issue. Before making the initial proposals, I would like to inform you of some of the facts that might help you in the process of stating these questions. When it comes to the appointment of the Ombudsman at the BiH Ombudsman's Institution, I will remind you that the House of Representatives at the 32nd session, held in 14.7.2008, named three persons by the BiH Ombudsman's institution, and that was Mr Ljubomir Sandić of the Serb people's order, Mariofil Ljubić of the Croatian people and Emina Halilović of the Bosniak people. The home of the people at the 19th session, held in 23.7.2008, in the BiH Ombudsman's Institution appointed gentlemen: Ljubomir Sandić of the Serb people, Ivo Bradić of the Croatian people and Mrs Jasminka Džumhur of the Bosniak people. The procedure was carried out on the basis of a proposal from the list of candidates for the appointment of the Ombudsman submitted by the Ad hoc commission. It is clear that we have identical decisions only when it comes to candidates from the order of the Serb people, while the same candidates are not appointed in the homes of Bosniak and Croatian peoples. HAS ADOPTED THIS DECISION: The Law on Ombudsmans for Human Rights of BiH states that the Ombudsman Institution is three persons and the obligation to appoint three ombudsmans at the same time. In connection with this issue, the High Representative for BiH sent a letter to the members of the Joint College and to the heads of the club representatives and clubs of the people we have forwarded to you, saying: 'it encourages the Joint College of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to reach an agreement on which two candidates, one Bošnjak, or one Hrvat, will be appointed by two homes. Both homes will then vote on candidates, with the aim of calling the three ombudsmen at the same time at the Ombudsman's institution." While estimating all of the above, the Joint College of both homes discussed the possibilities for finding a compromise solution and suggested that homes be made known about one of the proposals discussed. 63 The first proposal is the establishment of a committee of three MPs of the House of Peoples and three MPs who will work to agree on a proposal for the Ombudsman from the Croatian and Bosniak people according to the principles of harmonising the text of the law. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure specify the procedure for harmonising the law, but does not prohibit other consents, so the conclusion on this issue would be treated as a regulation of specific issues which are not regulated by the Rules of Procedure, as indicated in Article 165. Rules of Procedure. The second proposal is to renew the entire procedure for the appointment of the Ombudsman in the BiH Ombudsman Institution and appoint three members from both homes to an ad hoc commission that would implement the procedure and proposals to homes, according to the law. Dear MPs, the solution we accept today will be implemented and I suggest you actively engage to get out of this situation and to ensure the establishment of the Ombudsman Institution. When it comes to the procedure for the appointment of the deputy chief auditor from the Bosniak people, I will remind you that at the 29th session, held at 4.6.2008, the House of Representatives appointed Ms. Munevera Bahtić as deputy chief auditor from the Bosniak people, and the House of Peoples at the 18th session, held in 17.6.2008, Mr. Dževad Mekić. In order for the candidate to be appointed deputy chief auditor, he must receive a qualified majority in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. I remind you of the obligations of Article 24. The law on the revision of BiH institutions that determines that the main auditor and deputy chief auditor appoints Parliament on a proposal from the Committee for Elections. In this case, there are no provisions on a single institution of three persons and at the same time appointing. In order to resolve this problem, the proposals are as with the previous question: to decide to agree on candidates for the post of deputy chief auditor from the Bosniak people and to appoint three representatives to the Joint Committee for the Implementation of the Conformity Procedure, or to repeat the procedure for the appointment of three members in the Ad hoc commission for the selection of the Vice Chief Auditor, as indicated in Article 4. Law on the revision of BiH institutions. The solution you accept as a home, we will spend, and the homes make a decision. These are the suggestions and suggestions that we discussed at the Joint College of both homes and at the session of the House of Representatives, and I expect an understanding and clarification that will help to clarify the problems that have arisen. The same proposals will be presented to the House of Peoples in accordance with the agreement with the Joint College. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20775	In our last resolution from the Council of Europe, we have been warned to finally complete the matter with the appointment of the Ombudsman, so I am more inclined to take a shorter path, if it is possible, if it is based on the law, or not to repeat it again. It'll echo badly, if we cancel this election again and go back into procedure. So, if we can agree to 64, agree on the basis of previously implemented procedures to appoint the Ombudsman and the auditor, the SDA Club thinks it would be better.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20776	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Martin Raguž, and let the distinguished representative Branko Dokić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20777	Respecting, therefore, what Mr. Izetbegović was talking about, it is absolutely an argument that this should be accelerated, I want to say a few very important things here, because it is about selecting and naming people into one of the most important institutions for each country, especially for the development and stability of democracy. The biggest problem is that things here in Parliament, you know, when they don't go to some people during their wishes, then different standards are taken, and then in the House of Peoples, after the House of Representatives has established and selected proposals, they don't determine this proposal that has already been made by the House of Representatives, but they go through some other procedure and we get to this situation that we have now. So this is where the policy has already entered into the process of appointing, and we should remove any kind of political influence on the choice of these people, so if we fail now, I think we should leave it to the conclusion of the House, at least, for the next generations. And in the choice between speed and purity of procedure, given that no shadow should remain for the election of the Ombudsman, if we want that institution to be able to do its job responsibly. We, as a party, opt for if not able to make the House of Peoples manifest ourselves about the proposal of the House, the House of Representatives – to repeat the procedure, because I think that we can learn and do this work as Bog commands and enable these people and that institution to do their job responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20778	Thank you. The next one was announced by the distinguished representative Branko Dokić, and may the distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20779	Mr. Chairman, this, in my opinion, is about two completely different cases. When it comes to the auditor, then it's possible, and I'm going to give my vote to sign a special ad for that one missing. But when it comes to the Ombudsman, then I think we would have committed a legal violation if we had done so and to remind you that we have interpreted it so far. If it were a three-headed body, it could be like this, and it could be, however you want, so when all three were elected, then we have the Ombudsman's institution, since it was the way it was, and here I am totally in agreement with my colleague Raguž that obviously politics has involved stronger fingers than 65. So, while that's the case, the only way to do it is to call a competition for all three ombudsmen and thus as an institution to choose it, otherwise it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20780	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20781	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20782	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20783	So, what do you say, the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman, am I okay? I agree. Azra is always ready to correct me and take me on the right path, so I accept. So, clearly, it's one institution that works with all three members and so we have to continue to treat it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20784	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20785	Nothing, I'm signing the previous two discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20786	Dear Ambassador Džaferović, will you sign?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20787	No, I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20788	It's your turn, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20789	Yeah, thank you very much, just for a little while. I have a question for the College. You offered us two proposals today, actually two proposals for two questions. Both proposals are the same for both questions. One is a proposal to form committees on the basis of existing procedures for both institutions and other institutions on the principle of harmonisation and then to come out with a single proposal before both homes for a plea. That's right for the ombudsmen, so is the auditor. Or, second proposal, to restore procedures for both of them from the beginning, and then to form ad hoc commissions, etc. Now I ask you: today we should decide which way to go as Home, and you as a College did not agree. You offered us a double 66 suggestions. What will happen and will we make matters more complicated if we go one way today, and the House of the Peoples goes the other way? Do you understand what I'm talking about? Or is there a guarantee among you there? I want you to give me an answer to that question. That what is accepted by the House of Representatives today as a way to go – will also go to the House of Peoples. I have no answer to that question. Look, I mean, today we have two alternatives to how to get out of this situation. I'm afraid we don't get two more alternatives to code or the decision-making process. I think it was better that you, the six of you, as three people from home in the College sat down and said: we think this is the way and we suggest, we put this proposal in front of both homes. It's possible that homes decide differently. Then things are gonna get more complicated and I don't know when we're gonna end it, right? And we need to finish this as soon as possible. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20790	Thank you. We also have twice now. One is that I give myself my word so I can explain to you what I was thinking or what you asked, or we can take five minutes off until the chairman gets here. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to go out and try and explain it. Perhaps at first I should have answered, there might be fewer questions as to why in this way the Joint College decided to go to this house. First, if we could have agreed, then we would have done it in the Joint College and thus informed both of our homes. Since we could not agree, the only thing that was possible was for everyone in their home to try to find a solution to this question. My personal attitude was next. It is impossible in the Rules of Procedure, by reading Section G) The basic legislative procedure and all members from 121 to 125, to agree on anything other than the law. It is simply a legislative process and concerns only the harmonisation between homes regarding the legislative process. That's my opinion, and I'm standing behind it, so anything else will be about getting past this Rules of Procedure. What we cannot agree on in the College, this Rules of Procedure has decided to bring it to the House, to give the House its conclusion on how it can be solved. So it's a complete and correct interpretation of this Rules of Procedure and we've made this request to the House. We can't go out with each other at both homes for the simple reason why we don't have the same attitude, nor has the College of the House of Nations managed to agree on that. It's the only solution. In fact, the second position is a principled question and we believe, I believe, that both the auditor and the Ombudsman should renew the legislative process. In fact, we've been here for a long time, talking about the Ombudsman's institution, trying to get through various acrobatics, breaking or laws or regulations, to get to that institution. So you remember that we have proposed to amend this law in the sense that, since this law does not propose to make a ranking, to go into legislative changes that, as an auditor's choice, the commission is obliged to make a ranking list. So we made a joint meeting with both OHR and NGOs, with the Helsinki Committee, and we asked how to get out of this problem and then they said: This law allows the commission, made by this Parliament, to build a joint committee with the House of Peoples, to say that it is going to create a ranking list. And we said, let's do it. So then, at this session, you remember all the well, the ultimate request of one party that the proposal, which we thought, came from the SNSD, that the best proposal, could not vote, although, frankly, there were no arguments in terms of written arguments against that argument, against that man. We can say that this man doesn't answer for these and those reasons, but if we're going to speak with material and evidence, that man didn't have any criminal record, that man didn't have any judgment behind it, and we said good. If the problem is that man, and if the problem is SNSD, let's do that job again and we did our part of the job. Some others in this country didn't drink coffee. They didn't make a deal with each other. And they have to take part of their responsibility for the job and the problem that came after that. But again we are a principled attitude, which is a position, don't break this law, don't break the Rules of Procedure, let's not break that institution, which is the most important institution, if it concerns human rights concerns, let's do it without any stains, even if it's a longer period of time, but let's not bury our courts with complaints of those who are not elected or the complaints of those who have met the conditions of being candidates for this institution. To allow them to run again. Thank you. Has anyone checked in? Dear Ambassador Genjac, here you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20791	Chairman, I think we can bring this to an end and try to spend as little time as possible in order to fulfil this very important commitment and partnership and post-accession commitments of the Council of Europe. And I think that, in that sense, we could reach a conclusion, given the fact that what is not regulated by the Rules of Procedure and what is not appropriate to the Rules of Procedure, the House of Representatives can regulate and I suggest the following conclusion: - The House of Representatives shall appoint a group of three members in which representatives, one representative of each constitutional people, for each issue, one group for the Ombudsman, one group for the auditors who will be tasked with agreeing with... similar committees of the House of Nations. And of course the second point of that conclusion: - The House of Representatives invites the House of Peoples to appoint the same committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20792	Thank you. Since there are no more reports, I'd like to ask you to give us that conclusion in writing, and by then 10 minutes break. 68 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20793	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, please take your seats. Pausu was asked by the esteemed second vice president, Milorad Živković, and has a word to explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20794	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, I have expressed my position in terms of how we can get out of the problem of getting candidates, i.e. confirming the Ombudsman and the auditor, and I believe that this is only possible if the procedure is renewed and I am glad that the House has accepted that it can, that the College was right that this was not resolved by the Rules of Procedure and that in this way we are proposed to get out of this problem, that other way. And I would only help, if you would allow, to rephrase this conclusion a little bit, especially given Article 165(2), that the conclusion is binding as long as the Rules of Procedure are not otherwise regulated. And the conclusion shall apply from the date of adoption, unless otherwise provided for by it. Yes, if we adopt these conclusions now or, I don't know what the vote will be, and we don't resolve it with the Rules of Procedure, then we will have this conclusion which is binding on the BiH Parliament, and here it is explicitly stated that only from Bosniak and Croatian people are concerned with this Ombudsman, and for the auditor only from the Bosniak people. I think it's much better, because that conclusion can sometimes be used on other occasions, to just put a point here and say that in the first member of the Ombudsman: 'In accordance with Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, since this issue was not regulated by the Rules of Procedure, the House of Representatives agreed to agree to agree to the various decisions of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples on the appointment of the Ombudsman." It is then understood that it is only, therefore, for all decisions that are not agreed and also for auditors, it is only about the appointment of auditors. Not to speak, meaning, taxing on which people are concerned, because it can benefit us sometimes and in the future if we do not resolve this issue to the Rules of Procedure, and I suggest, no matter what the conclusion, the Home's relationship to this conclusion: that our commission dealing with the amendments to the Rules of Procedure has in mind and that it tries to solve this issue with one member, not only does it apply to the confirmation of the Ombudsman and the auditor but also to all other decisions, it can also be the Management Board, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20795	Thank you. No more reports. Does the promoter want the conclusion of the esteemed representative Halid Genjac?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20796	...of course, acceptable this, just, just with a note that, regardless, this decision will have a one-time use, because it refers to a specific question, but that we are not opening the controversy now. It's acceptable, it's acceptable. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20797	Thank you. I'm just asking you to prepare a modified proposal for a conclusion before the plea. So, we're not going to plead now that you've agreed to the text in a completely new form, so I invite you to prepare this modified text by the time you say it, so that's what we said. We don't have any more logs on this agenda. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 16th point, Ad. 16. Appointment of a member of the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public TV Service (Rang-list of the Regulatory Agency for Communications) On 11 August, the Communications Regulatory Agency submitted a list of candidates for a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board. On 12 September, the Committee for Transport and Communications delivered its opinion on the Rang-list. The commission unanimously accepted the rank-Rang-lisu. Therefore, two candidates are proposed for a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board: Mirko Vuković – Crnogorac and Branimir Drulović – Jugosloven. I'm opening a debate. In front of the motion, I have been informed that Mrs. Helena Mandić is attending the session. Does Mrs. Mandić want to speak to the House on behalf of the promoter? There's no need. Dear Representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20799	Mr. Chairman, I will first as chairman of the resolution committee, and then as personal capacity to address myself. As President of the Commission, I can say that our commission has considered this and only forwarded the proposal of the Regulatory Agency for Communications to Parliament for decision-making. But now I'd like to make a comment. First of all, we have two candidates who meet the formal conditions as highlighted in the proposal for a Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications. But I'd like to make one parallel though. Candidate Branimir Drulović is indeed not only fulfilling the basic conditions but is a candidate by all means. If you take only the following facts, I want to read them for the simple reason that all MPs have not been able to study all the materials: that in their professional career he spent most of his time in the media, and in the electronic media. In addition to the fact that he has two colleges, the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine and the Academy of Theatre, Film and Television, which he finished in Zagreb, the Department of Film and TV Cameras, and this he had a specialization in Reuters for TV journalism, then at Dublin University at postgraduate studies for film, television and 70 videos. He was a cameraman and operator of TV Belgrade, then for the British agency BLIC News cameraman – producer, British agency Reuters in the period 92. - 97th year as head of the Balkan Bureau. He worked for German TV Art, Swiss TV, Austrian TV..., at OHR he was a consultant for the media, he was V.d. Director-General of Studio B Belgrade, he was an analyst with the Information Programme TV B92, a part-time professional associate in teaching at the Faculty of Electronics in Nis, Department of Multimedia Systems, PINK director of production and responsible radio editor, at Banja Luka College he was a doctor at the Department of Management in the media. If we need an expert in this state of BHRTV, then we need it from the management area, and not only that, since 2008, and it's been at the University of Management Professor at the Multimedia Department. He was vice president of the Association of Television Experts of Serbia. I would like to point out that he won the Association of Journalists of Serbia award at the Special Jury's proposal for objective reporting with the war on the affected areas of the former Yugoslavia in the period when he was Reuters' correspondent. So, taking everything into account and there are other things, courses, books, etc. We really have one candidate who will be able to make a significant contribution to the reform of the Public TV System as a whole that follows us in the coming period.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20800	Thank you. Dear Representative Suljkanović is reporting.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20801	I will be very brief, I think this lobbying was completely unnecessary and I think it will have the opposite effect of what Mr Dokić expected.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20802	Thank you. No more reports. Replica, the esteemed representative Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20803	Mr. Suljkanović said a sad and devastating fact about this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20804	All right, we don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate on the 16th agenda. Moving to point 17. 71 Ad. 17. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Denmark on visa waivers, (b) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Norway on visa waivers, (c) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and the Commonwealth of Australia, which represents the Ministry of Health, on certain rights of use of the AR-DRG system of classification, (d) Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities on the cross-border programme between BiH and the Republic of Croatia for 2007, on the basis of instruments for pre-accession assistance – Component II. Cross-border co-operation, e) Agreement on funding between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities on the cross-border programme between BiH and the Republic of Serbia for 2007 on the basis of instruments for pre-accession assistance – Component II. Cross-border cooperation, f) Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Community concerning the national programme for 2007 as part of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance for Transition and Construction of Institutions, g) Convention on the supply of acts abroad in civil and commercial matters – The Hague, 15 November 1965, h) Convention on the supply of evidence abroad in civil and commercial matters – The Hague, 18 March 1970, i) Agreement on Amendments and Supplements and Supplements No 1 to the Loan Treaty of 1 August 2006 between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development – Air Traffic Management Project, j) Agreement on the loan, financing and project between KfW Frankfurt on May and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation of BiH and the Elektroprivrede of the Croatian Communities Herceg-Bosna-Renoptreme The Foreign Affairs Committee before the first part of the session, as well as during the session, had problems securing the quorum for holding the session, so it gave its opinion on these materials, and that the same happened yesterday; I hope they managed to hold a session this morning and give their opinion on these materials. Otherwise, I have to say that other committees also have a problem in ensuring the quorum for the sessions, this has recently happened to the Joint Committee on Human Rights, and we have removed the State Commission's report on the naturalisation of foreign citizens for the period from 1.1.2008 to 31.6.2008 from the agenda of the 36th session. In this context, I call on MPs and envoys to respond to calls from non-session committees to make the work of the committees more effective. 72 I suggest that the debate on the 17th agenda be conducted jointly for all... I see air conditioning from the bench. So I have consent. I'm opening a debate on the entire 17th agenda. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20806	Dear Chairman, I have no fundamental objection to all these agreements but I think it is some literal errors in the bold text of opinion, three opinions of our Foreign Affairs Commission, and so it says - the BiH-European Commission financing agreement, the European Communities between BiH and the European Communities, I think it is a mistake. [[Common discussion]] Someone has to explain to me – What is the European Communities? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20809	Thank you. The following was reported by distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20810	I thank you, Chairman. I will briefly, as far as possible, on the agreement referred to in point d), e), and f), and they concern our relations, i.e. the agreements between BiH and the Commission of the European Communities on the funds that we need to withdraw from the so-called IPA projects. Unfortunately, now I hear here in the O.R. that it is only now the national coordinator for these projects, we could hear from the media that it really took too long. And I want, because there is also the Deputy Finance Minister, as a member of this Parliament to point out the inadmissible long state of affairs, and that these agreements for 2007, that the 62m-euro funds -- perhaps most of them are known but can't keep these things quiet -- stand because of the unnamed national coordinator and the procedures that they are, that we need to talk about these agreements in 2008 which talk about millions that are not even known how much they are. And in that sense, so, I had the need to really point to the Ministry, one slowness that should in no way be justified and there's no reason to be so long to conduct procedures. Here these three agreements have 50.7m euros, which we all need from this country, which is 73 and I want to point out that this is being resolved as soon as possible and that we get these agreements for 2008 too, so that we can implement the funds.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20811	Thank you. No more reports. Is there any agent to discuss? There isn't. He has a respected representative, Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20812	Not to remain in debt to colleagues, the first pillar on which the EU rests is made up of the European Communities, made up of the European Economic Community, the European Coal and Steel Community and the Euro-Aton. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20813	Honorable representative Jovičić, as should be the replica, is it not?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20814	Professor, thank you very much, I've memorized it all. I thought it was literal mistakes, and now I see that these are mistakes and I support Mr. Nanić. So do we really need to read from the newspapers that this coordinator is set up? Who is this man, woman, who is he, what is he? Is it set? Not yet? I really thought this was such an easy, literal mistake, and then we'll make it right. But these are really mistakes, mistakes, in us, I don't know before us, in someone. And it's a good thing I noticed, because otherwise nobody would, we always adopt agreements in a package, so no one picks up, and now I see that what we've opened up is a good thing. You've got some mistakes, too. How much money, Nanić? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] 57 million and oh, my people! No more.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-07-0.u20816	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. And I have to say this: it wasn't directly related to this agenda point, but here's what's useful to discuss and what's not exactly on the agenda, I agree that it's not good to be late in a lot of things. So, since we've exhausted the agenda, now we're gonna take a half hour break. I call immediately on the members of the Extended College of the House to agree on a further follow-up to this session. So we have a statement and everything, so let's try to make a deal to make it more efficient. 74 So five o'clock, five o'clock, please be here in the hall, and we'll try to make a deal by then. Session aborted at 5:15 p.m. [[PAUZA]]
