ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22336	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 42nd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. At today's session, apart from the representatives, our regular guests were invited: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs. In particular, the session invited distinguished Mr. Haris Silajdžić, now a member of the BiH presidency, and Igor Radojčić, president of the National Assembly of the RS, for the agenda points included in the agenda on the initiatives of MPs Branko Dokić and Remzija Kadrić. In connection with the invitation to the session, Mr Igor Radojčić reported that he had no intention of coming to the session since the Bosniak Club at the Council of the RS People has challenged the Resolution, that it has not yet been announced, and therefore has not come into force. A letter from Mr. Radojčić was delivered to you. I welcome all present representatives and guests, and I also welcome representatives of public information funds. According to service information, I'd like to conclude that there are 37 representatives present at the session. There are justly no honourable representatives Jovan Todorović and Selim Bešlagić. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as part of the previous questions, I'd like to brief you on a few things. First, in connection with the re-delivery of the parliamentary procedure, the proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production, proposed by MP Jerka Ivanković Lijanović. The latest proposal for a Law on the Protection of Domestic Production was submitted by Honorable Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović to the House in 4.12.2008, with the request for an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. 2 I remind you that the College of the House, at one of the previous sessions, on the same occasion, presented the interpretation of the provision of Article 101. The Rules of Procedure, given that he had in the procedure several draft laws with the same content and from the same applicant. The bottom line is that, by the end of the procedure before the House of First Law, the procedure for the other proposals of the laws is at rest. At the 32nd session of the House, 14. 7, a statement on the proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production within the CEFTA Agreement was postponed by the end of this year, with the conclusion adopted by the House on the proposal of the SDA Representatives' Club. I would like to inform you on this occasion that we have received a report from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Action Plan for the implementation of the measures programme under the CEFTA Agreement to be discussed at one of the next meetings of the House. This material was sent to you last week. The second issue, related to the proposal of the distinguished representative Denis Bećirović: to place a point in the agenda of this session called 'A consideration of the consequences of the draft law on the territorial organisation of the RS, which in the remaining two municipalities, Bosnia and Herzegovina's Kostajnica and the Bosnian Ship of the said entity, is abolished by the prefix of Bosnian. The College discussed this proposal at the 78th session of the current year and took the view that this issue could be delegated by MP Bećirović at this session of the House, during a debate on the agenda proposal. For reasons of clarity, I will quote (1) Article 65. Rules of Procedure, which reads: 'At the beginning of each session, a representative, as well as any authorised promoter, shall have the right to request the abandonment of the optional point and to propose a new point, with appropriate material in writing. Leaving a mandatory point is not allowed'. So, I stress, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is not possible, in the context of the debate on the draft agenda of this session, to propose points for the next or next House sessions. And the third question, concerning the status of counsel in this home, the distinguished Mr. Milenko Grabovac. Namely, after a respected representative of Snježana Rajilić, 7.11.2008, accepted the term of office of the head of the municipality of Bosnia and Herzegovina Novi – Novi Grad, I immediately sent a request to the Central Election Commission for the next session, held on 19.11.2008, to the next qualified candidate from the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats list, Milorad Dodik. In 14.11.2008 we received the Central Election Commission Decision on the termination of the mandate of Snježana Rajilić and the mandate of Mr Milenko Grabovac as the next qualified candidate from the SNSD compensation mandate list - Milorad Dodik. At the follow-up of the 39th session, 19.11.2008, the distinguished Mr. Milenko Grabovac gave a solemn statement and thus took over the duties of MPs in this high house. However, in 10.12.2008, the Central Election Commission concludes to Dom that the administrative procedure delaying the implementation of the section of the Decision on the granting of the term of office of Milenko Grabovac is being renewed. On the occasion of this conclusion, at the 78th session held on 11 December, the College of the House concluded that it asked the Central Election Commission to clarify part of the conclusion, with an emphasis on informing us whether the representative Grabovac could continue his work in the House. 3 The Central Election Commission delivered its statement yesterday, which was discussed both by the College of the House and the Extended College of the House. The extended Dom College concluded that once again from the Central Election Commission it was requested that the House be held in a hurry, and no later than today, 17 December, up to 10.00 hours, to deliver a decadent position on whether Mr Milenko Grabovac has the status of MP at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We sent this conclusion immediately after the session of the extended College of the House to the President of the Central Election Commission. I'd like to inform you that we have not received a decadent response from the Central Election Commission by this time. I would like to inform you that the position of the College of the House that the esteemed Mr. Milenko Grabovac has the status of counsel as long as in the legal procedure that mandate is not taken away and that, accordingly, he can work in this home. If there are any different considerations, we will open the debate before we move to the agenda. I would also like to inform you that the draft budget of the BiH institutions for 2009. The college set deadlines at the session yesterday. First reading we'll have 23 this month, please keep this in mind and plan your time. Here, so many in previous questions, and if there are different views on the status of representative of the Grabovac, please report to those who have such reflections and open the debate. Then, if it doesn't, we'll feel that Dom is in agreement with the College's position and that we can continue on the agenda. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22337	Dear Chairman, I'm reporting on the agenda proposal. Namely, I'd like to remind you that...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22338	If we can just, please, we haven't gotten to the agenda yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22339	Then which point are we?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22340	So these are the previous questions. So if there are any previous questions, we're going to open up the debate, and then, when we get to the agenda, you're going to get the first word you're going to say. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22341	Thank you, Chairman. 4 You mentioned, as part of the questions before, one of the points also referred to the mandate of MPs here in Parliament. And here, let me, with what you mentioned and what we talked about yesterday at the Parliament Club, of course, ask a question, and here I repeat it really: Who is responsible for this situation in which Parliament has found itself? Here, I will just remind you, the CEC has notified this Parliament of the termination of one term and awarded the next MP from the compensation list, so it has informed Parliament, on the basis of which Parliament has carried out the procedure. After that, the CEC informed us of the renewal of the administrative procedure. Afterwards, thanks, of course, to the questions of the College, she then informed us again, where it explicitly states that the mandate could not be taken over by the MP and could not be given the assurance of the mandate. I am now, of course, asking the question of responsibility for this situation, because this Parliament needs to be given arguments for the situation in which Parliament was found and in which Parliament was brought for the first reason, firstly, the legitimacy of this Parliament, secondly, the legitimacy of all the decisions that this Parliament has made in this period, so this situation has arisen. And I ask that, in that context, further communication with the Central Election Commission, in some ways, position you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22342	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22343	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I have come to say that I am not in agreement with the House today defining the question in the way the College of the House has done. I also said that on the extended college that I think the most we can do at this point is that we don't have any opinion on this, or that the House is taking any views on this today, or that, by silence, it approves the position of the College. If, and indeed, the Central Election Commission made a big mistake by delivering a decision that was not valid or not effective, and according to their subsequent notification, neither did the candidate sign a statement, so at least they said here, I have no other document, nor was it about accepting the mandate, nor did they, after that statement, give the assurance that the decision needed to be final and valid. In this way, the CEC has brought Parliament into a very unpleasant situation and the least it can be expected to really raise a serious question of CEC's relationship to the electoral law, as well as the relations of this parliament to the CEC, which we are likely to have when we receive a report on the work of the CEC for this year. I'm not sure, in fact, I'm sure the Election Commission won't take Mr Grabovac's term, because she doesn't think he's even assigned a mandate until these two conditions are met, and that's signing statements and giving assurances. That's why I suggested yesterday at the Expansive College that we get a clear position of the CEC today until 10.00: Is Mr. Grabovac an MP or not an MP? And if not, who's the MP at this session today? It is obvious that the CEC did not... this request has respected, I guess in order to continue this practice on this 5 issue; it is not normally a practice, I think it is one of the most serious institutions that we have made, with the practice of transferring responsibility to someone else, in this case transferring responsibility to Parliament. I'm not sure that because of their mistake, we should jump into another mistake. And I'm afraid if we in any way support the position of the College that we're going to be in the situation of a colleague of Azra. If anyone could challenge, in the previous two or three sessions, everything we have concluded here just because this CEC feels that man has not won, the whole process has not been properly completed to be an MP. We had one single solution: if the CEC hadn't already done this, to postpone today's session, until we got a position on whether or not the honourable fellow MP, so that we don't question these decisions today too. If we've already made this a CEC mistake for the last three sessions, then we shouldn't be doing it by mistake today. Of course, I don't want to suggest we don't work today. I said what was the solution and I just want to take my opinion out of the college opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22344	I thank the honourable representative. The next is Honorable Representative Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22345	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, I would also like to categorically state that we, above all, must take care of the integrity of the entire electoral process and the legitimacy of the bodies that are created in this way. According to our legislation and the Electoral Law, therefore, the Election Commission is an institution that determines the similarity and determines the similarity of candidates. It's not the Parliamentary Assembly. The Parliamentary Assembly cannot enter the process of assessing similarity. So, the fact is that we have several memos from the Central Election Commission, the fact is that in one of these memos it is categorically that the candidate cannot be an MP. So it's nothing personal here, nothing. So, specifically, here are the principles and the fact is, too, that part of the procedure for nominating or setting up parliamentary candidate status has been initiated, but he is not an MP. So, I am afraid by this decision, the Parliamentary Assembly first takes what should not be taken over and cannot take over, and the other thing is that it does not solve the problem but increases the problem. For this reason, I propose: either to wait for the definitive position of the Central Election Commission who is the candidate, or to freeze the entire position of the candidate, who came next, until the Central Election Commission is precisely determined. In this way, if this process were to be frozen, we might not have come, we would not have decisions that would be controversial from the aspect of the integrity of this Parliamentary Assembly. And if that is not possible, we must seek a solution that is appropriate to the law and respects what has been done. So, I want to point out that we can't take charge this way. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22346	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22347	Obviously, and according to the people who appear, they have already applied for the discussion, that we should have opened a debate on this item of the agenda and the intention in the College was not to impose any opinion on it, but to ask this Parliament whether it has anything against what he has set up for the Kolegijum. I don't think it's good for Parliament to run away from making a decision. What some MPs have proposed is to run away from making a decision. It is not true that in the materials that we have received from the Central Election Commission, it is declared that Mr Grabovac is no longer an MP. If there is one, please read to me where there is and if there is, then why have we asked the Electoral Commission twice after that to make a declaration about it. And now the Electoral Commission didn't do it. Why? Because in the course of everything that's been going on with this decision, there are so many irregularities that these people, in fact, have been unwittingly doing their job and misusing the position they've been in. Let's start over. Why is there a sanction against a man in the first place? Afterwards, the Central Election Commission decided that it could impose such sanctions, after which it made a decision. And that's true. That the people of the Constitutional Court, on the Board of Appeal, are all those who have been sanctioned, such as Mr. Grabovac, and here should be said, so the man is appointed to V.D. in Bijeljina, he resigned from the Municipality of Modrič and only because of three months of differences, from the six months when his mandate was due to end, he was given a later sanction, two years later. The CEC assigned a mandate, wrote its decision. The decision consisted in accepting Mrs Rajilić's resignation to this term and adding to the next qualified one. This parliament has implemented the CEC Decision. The man took an oath here. The failure of the CEC was that it did not bring confidence to sign the same day. It's technical stuff, not essential stuff. This is where the CEC comes out on essentials. It was their duty that on that day, when a man took an oath – because no one had filed any complaint on it, and it took two days for someone to appeal to that solution, no one had filed a complaint – she was obliged to bring that belief here. And if she hadn't done that part of her job! It then refers to the renewal of the administrative procedure and calls for non-existent parts of the Administrative Procedure Act. And thirdly, we get, incomprehensible, incomprehensible, ultimate solution that this is not the CEC's rightful decision. What does that mean? This means that Mrs. Rajilić is not, in that part it is not only said that the other part of that decision is not only unlawful but the whole decision is said to be inadmissible. We from the SNSD won't start a session until we figure out who the SNSD MP is, because we can't fool around like this in this country. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22348	The following has been announced by the distinguished representative Vinko Zorić, and let the distinguished representative Jozo Križanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22349	Can we discuss other previous issues, not just these? You got it. So I got up to ask the College why this next session isn't 25, why is it 23? I asked a year ago not to hold meetings on Christmas, because our obligation as an agent is to hang out with our election base and my election base means a lot that week, and two days before Christmas, even after Christmas. I asked for it every year, and every year it happens to us that we have meetings or two days before Christmas or two days after Christmas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22350	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Jozo Križanović. Let the honourable representative, Šefik Džaferović, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22351	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we've completely unnecessarily opened this debate, to be exact, about the mandate of a fellow Grabovac, not Christmas. In fact, it is that this House of Representatives does not grant mandates, nor can they be taken away. Therefore, for me, the reality is that a colleague in a regular procedure under the Election Commission Decision signed a solemn statement and thus became a full member of the House of Representatives. It's obviously a rough one, let's say, a rough mistake from the Central Election Commission, and I think we should end this debate by thinking that we expect, of course, some outcome from this situation, to find the Central Election Commission a way out of this under the law. This means that if there is a disturbance, a real disturbance to take away the mandate of my colleague Grabovac, to decidately deliver the decision to the House and to run for office, that is, to assign the mandate to the next certified candidate. That's why I think we're really gonna lose time today, and it's unnecessary for us to determine whether the mandate is properly assigned or not. It is for us, until the Central Election Commission decides otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22352	I thank the esteemed representative Križanović. The next is distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović, and let the distinguished representative Ekrem Ajanović be prepared. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22353	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you that, because of this issue that we have and which is obviously controversial, we do not question the legitimacy of decisions and the legality of decisions that this Parliament will make. After a letter arrived from the Election Commission on 16 December 2008, if followed by the decision that the College proposed a House of Representatives, any decision would be devastating before the BiH Constitutional Court. The BiH Election Commission is an institution that has assigned mandates and in its letter since 16.12.2008 reads at the end: "For the reasons put forward, Mr Milenko Grabovac could not assume the office of MPs at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives". I ask you,... I am sorry that we are in this situation, I really have nothing personal, personally, I wish we weren't in this position, but we have had many situations so far when one colleague for some reason ceases his term, and then a new colleague or colleague is expected to come to Parliament, Parliament has normally worked. I know that in the past two or three months, the SDA was without one representative, even in two situations, so it was, and Parliament was normally working and working normally. The important thing is that he has a quorum for his work. We won't lose anything of this, nothing will be damaged. I, therefore, ask that the decision-making process at today's session is not attended by our distinguished colleague, that Parliament is working, and let the Election Commission resolve this in a way that needs to be resolved. This is her responsibility, and don't let Dom take over what's not his job. Let us not question the full Parliament over the disputed situation over a colleague. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22354	Thank you. Dear counterpart Ekrem Ajanović next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22355	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I will be very brief. The truth is, there's a mistake here somewhere. At the last session, when it was an oath, I wasn't, but I'll remind you that we couldn't take an oath until all the MPs signed a statement to accept it. So we can't just throw the blame on the Electoral Commission. The question here is why Parliament has made such a decision and has not had complete documentation. And I'm interested in why we could vote without having a statement that the MP in question accepts it, because it's prescribed by law, and that's not a decision that can be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22356	Mr. Lozančić, the chairman has come to the floor. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22357	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, the distinguished guests, apparently, has already been mentioned by the second vice president, Dr Milorad Živković, that there was a need for the House to discuss this issue, for several reasons. The first reason is: The Central Election Commission is an independent body that has, in accordance with our Electoral Law, a full mandate for the implementation of the electoral process, the assignment and withdrawal of the mandate and all that is regulated by the electoral legislation. But the Central Election Commission is not a sacred cow, infallible means, which must not be spoken of. The Central Election Commission has seriously messed with this parliament. So it's not one decision, is it good, bad, quality, unquality? We do not enter the competences of the Central Election Commission, nor do we want to. The Central Election Commission has delivered a decision to this House, meaning the decision was delivered, not by any written, no conclusions, no information, but by a decision suspending the term of office of our distinguished colleague, who took the second term and assigned the mandate to a respected colleague, Grabovac. The election commission is playing tricks on this parliament, ___________(?) What can we do now? What can we do? We can't do anything, let's go home if we can't do anything! So I mean, please, what can we do?- I'm sorry. I admire all of us when we discuss these independent bodies that we have chosen. We have no right to discuss them at all. Let's say we don't have the right, let's delete that provision in law. We won't even choose them, let them choose for themselves. But I don't want anyone to mess with me here. And I don't want to let, while I'm in the College of this home, someone's playing with the integrity of this house, whoever it is. So there's no such institution that has the right to do that. And today, the Central Election Commission is delivering us a letter, a letter again. We didn't ask for a letter. We've received a decision on the mandate. We are looking for a decision, because the law provides for a decision and a mandate to be granted and withdrawn. However they assigned the mandate to Mr Grabovac, let the same term be taken away from him, if they think he's gone. Why don't they make a decision to take his term? I remind you of the Electoral Law: when they find out about the new circumstances, within 15 days at the latest, they must make a decision. Why aren't they bringing her in? According to these letters, which they are dissipating us these days, on 26.11. they found in their own records, you might think so – in their own records they found a decision on the ban on running. Oh, come on, please? And we won't even discuss it. We'll let them, I don't know, maybe the day after tomorrow bring for someone else here. I'm not talking about Mr. Grabovac right now. I'm embarrassed. I apologize to him for mentioning his name, because it's not him. It's this home. It's an institution of MPs. If we go through these things, through them, then the question is, what can we do at all? Are we going to let everyone alive in this country, no matter how much we respect institutions? I respect the Central Election Commission's institution, but there are people who are wrong, obviously. Those who make big mistakes, which because of these ten big mistakes, put us in a very awkward situation. How am I, based on what I am now, based on what regulations I command people in insurance, I'm not for some kind of pedestal solution, here, sir, you're sitting here but pretend you're not here. Well, I'm not going to work in an institution like that. You're a representative and you'll sit here or you won't be a representative and you'll be out. Therefore, there is no other solution. Only representatives can sit in these benches. If you are not a representative, if we agree that you are not a representative, then I will ask you politely to go out; if you reject it, I will ask the people of security to keep you away. It's the only way. Look, I didn't want to do it alone. I don't want to, first of all, you've already been brought into... someone seriously played with you, so with your dignity someone's seriously played a game. Someone, because they didn't peek into the drawers, didn't look into their records, not the others, but their records, delivered the decision and now they tell us, in this memo to the latest, that they never even delivered the decision. Here she is, 14.11. Welcome to Parliament here, reception seal. Respecting this institution, I cannot use terms, I cannot use words to call what the Central Election Commission is doing towards this Parliament. That really doesn't make sense. And to be called to some kind of technical procedure that they were obliged to do before they delivered the decision to us, you know, that's what they want on that story or saying: "It's not the mother of Muj Karala who gambled, it's what he took out." It's not a problem that the Electoral Commission has made a mistake, anyone can make a mistake, but the problem is that they're being pulled out in this way. That's what the problem is, what this home needs to be about. The electoral law says when it stops and how the mandate ends – by decision. We do not have a decision, we have a decision that Mr Grabovac has been assigned a mandate and we do not have a decision to suspend his mandate. And we don't have a decision to grant the next qualified term, you know. We're being written some letters that like we can't say we don't know about this, we can't pretend we don't know. They've informed us so nicely that there's something wrong. But I expect a decision in accordance with the law. I don't expect any writing. They've been looking, I'm going to say openly, I'm sorry they're not here, they've been looking for these days and these past 15 days some oral meetings to orally explain something. I didn't agree to a single member of the College because I don't want to agree orally on how the Election Commission will do its job. I expect them to work in accordance with the law, impartially, independently, as the law requires them and with full respect for their work, and not in this way lead us all astray, to play with their own fates, to play with the dignity of this home. Well, I'm sorry, we really can't tolerate that. And we have to make a statement. So we have to define the condition: either Mr. Grabovac can sit here, or he can't?- I'm sorry. So that's the only way we can get out of this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22359	Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22360	I respect the views of the Speaker-in-Office, but I will only remind you that in this House, I do not mean in this conference, he has made a decision on who can be a parliamentarian or who can stop the mandate, only by passing the law. So, no parliament, in any session, has decided whether anyone can be a parliamentarian or cannot be a parliamentarian. And in that sense, I appreciate that it is not good for this parliament to declare whether one of us has a mandate or 11 has no mandate. The more I would, the more I would not, the more I would not respond to the transfer of the ball, perhaps, someone's responsibility for the responsibility of this Parliament. I think that would be the answer to such a strategy. However, I, the chairman, will remind you of something: that, on the basis of last letter and memo yesterday, which is based on the conclusion of the Expansive Commission, we have received now, during your discussion, the answer, 17, today, from the President of the Electoral Commission, in which we again have no answer whether or not our fellow MP or not is an MP. At this session today, at tomorrow's session – yes or no? Here they inform us again that he could not take office, etc. I appreciate the need to ask them precisely and strictly for this answer and that if anyone questions the work, further work of today's session of Parliament, they should be sent a memo to them today or at this moment whether or not Mr Grabovac is in the capacity of decision-makers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22361	Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22362	Gentlemen, the chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the SNSD won seven seats in the elections in this House. All seven messengers are alive and well; all seven have a decision, and all seven have sworn an oath. We believe that all the conditions have been obtained for all seven to participate in this Parliament's work on the basis of the decisions made by the authorities that made it possible. Until a different relevant decision, we can't think differently. We don't have those decisions. All letters, memos, views, opinions, because this is not about the decision of this Parliament on the assignment of a mandate or withdrawal, but only about confirming one condition which is what it is, which I believe rightly established to the Kolegijum. And we, I don't see any other way to treat this issue. On several occasions, if I did not repeat myself now, communication when it comes to the mandates between the Election Commission and this Parliament is based on decisions,... and it is impossible, because however anyone interprets the situation as controversial, at any point in which it was decided, whether it could be decided on the basis of a letter from the Election Commission and the opinion that someone is being taken away from the mandate -- probably not. We should make a decision somewhere about taking a term of office. So, why would I, if those instances don't accept an opinion and a memo, why would they accept my opinion and opinions? They can write this as much as they want. Their inner opinions, the way of correspondence, the way of decision-making, we've never been involved and we've never questioned the work of the Electoral Commission, we've already based everything on this communication, based on decisions. That's how it's been so far, so it should still be. I think that after the past few days, when even from this Parliament the height of this home has been broken down, this is a continuation of some institutions, because we think, when all of this is put on the table, that basically this is incorrect, inconclusive, that I didn't even assume that this could happen in this way. It is not a questionable mistake, it is not a questionable mistake, and on the human side it can be, but in a mistake of this relationship, I think it is to this Parliament, and it is placed in one low-class position that everyone else is more important and that we serve here as one self-service where everyone from it will take what is right for him and treat that Parliament the way that, in a given situation, it suits him. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22363	Correction of an incorrect allegation, a respected representative of Halid Genjac, and then a respected representative of Jozo Križanović, for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22364	I think there's a little bit of increased temperature unnecessary. I, therefore, Mr. Chairman, would not have been told by anyone in the debate that the Electoral Commission should not be discussed. Nobody said the Electoral Commission was a sacred cow. No one said we shouldn't talk about these things, because you're the one who asked me to talk to you about this. But it is not the issue of the Central Election Commission's work, and it will probably need to be a topic of one debate. The topic is a specific question, where we really have the facts, how did you compare it: the decision that a man was assigned a mandate and a memo that was not a mandate. The decision is real. Now what's our way out of here? We warn that we cannot ignore the fact that the Central Election Commission, as the only one relevant to determine the similarity of the candidates, has warned that something is wrong with the mandate. We can't ignore it, we can't pretend we haven't seen it. We have here a proposal to treat the decision that has come as a decision until the other decision comes to pass. So that's about two things. Both have arguments both have rights. I mean, we need to find a way out of this situation. So, you're absolutely right, we have a decision and, until the second decision is delivered, that decision, in a way, figures out. But because we too have the right to warn the problem that tomorrow in the Constitutional Court this stenogram will be discussed, I suggest that we put to the vote the conclusion: that, due to all the facts in the CEC memos, the mandate of the MPs is frozen until the CEC's decision comes. So now I'm proposing a passive position for us. So the decision remains in force and it is treated as a decision until the second decision comes. But in order to warn that we are not neglecting the CEC's letter, I propose a conclusion – so it is not the mandate, because the House of Representatives cannot vote on it, the House can reach a conclusion on a particular issue, and I propose that the mandate of the MP be frozen until the second decision of the CEC comes. If the conclusion is adopted, it rests. If we don't adopt the decision is still on, but we have the facts we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22365	Dear Representative Jozo Križanović, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22366	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, it's not a correction of the wrong allegation, but it's a replica, in fact, in some way a statement about a different opinion that is already trying to be profiled here, which is that I want to make it clear that we are not going to declare the status of a colleague of Grabovac. It's simply because it's not the jurisdiction of this home. We obviously have a problem, the problem is caused by the negligent work of the CEC and the only possibility, in our opinion, is that we have the status quo as it is to the CEC's concrete decisions, in the sense that nothing... decides to keep the situation as it is or that, in accordance with the law, the CEC takes the mandate and assigns the mandate to the next qualified candidate. So, again, I want to say that this is not the first time that the CEC has created a problem for us, but I would like to reiterate that we will not participate at all in a statement on the status of colleague Grabovac's mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22367	Thank you. The following is announced by the distinguished representative, Remzija Kadrić, and let the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22368	I'll do it for a while. In this decision, the Central Election Commission of 13.11. they say that, through mail, they delivered a decision on the termination of the mandate, on Milenko Grabovac's mandate. So they sent a Decision to the House of Representatives, and in this letter today they say: 'It is clear that we have answered that the decision to grant the mandate to Mr. Milenko Grabovac has not been delivered'. So they sent it to the House of Representatives, but it turns out from this memo that they didn't send the decision to Milenko Grabovac, the candidate for the term of office. It's like some kind of justice. Therefore, they have a decision to assign Grabovac to the House of Representatives, and reportedly, in this letter, it reads that they did not send Milenko Grabovac. And probably, there's a man here, he can answer why you didn't send him a decision, because you were obliged to send him that decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22369	The next is the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić, and let the distinguished representative Sadik Ahmetović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22370	Dear Chairman, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of NGOs, journalists, colleagues and fellow Members! I said one session, the chairman, that I admire when you tell me I'm an honourable MP, and I said I was humiliated. What do I want to say? I am aware that politics must not interfere with the judicial system, in the work of NGOs and the media, we stick to it, and we must not talk about the institution that we have formed, well, that's worrying. The second thing, come on, waiting for the results of 40 days, I don't know how long it takes to count all the votes, I understand then they're all doing something, but when they had this result in front of them, when they knew that Mrs. Rajilić was elected chief, who invited Mr. Grabovac here, etc. And why I say that we are, not me anymore, but this Parliament has been humiliated. Well, here I am, not 14 to defend the chairman I greatly respect, just to remind him. You see Mr. Chairman there at the pay phone, standing, reading the oath, we are all standing upright, the gentleman taking an oath before us – who made fun of this House that day? Who invited Mr. Grabovac to approach at all that day, maybe the man didn't know where this building was, not where the hall was. Who played with the fate of a respected gentleman who today is the hardest to listen to this story? The other thing is, it's really amazing if you bring in that they're notifying you and they're misreading the term to notify you, and they're really sending you a notice. Where's the decision here? Even if all the things and the dice had been arranged and they said, "Here, we made a mistake, we confessed, so now we've made a decision to take the mandate." Who were they proposing to replace a qualified next candidate? It's not about whether it's seven SNSD MPs or whether it's the three of us, not to go to those Partisan parolees, count on us and when we're one here. Not because of the threat, no, but because of our constructive discussion and contributes to this parliament's work, not to break it up. But you see how our institution, I wonder what they're doing these days, whether they're counting votes in absentia or, I don't know, they have so much to do and nobody remembers them from NGOs saying, well, they're our institution, how much they have wages, how much their productivity is, but they told us we're immoral, so I'm going to compose everything into this story right now. And you can see we're moral. We're looking for a way out, and they wrote us a note. What about the notice? Shall we put it on the front door of Parliament, so that someone may see it, that we are ridiculed by journalists, and we are nothing to blame for this, here we are, for everything else. That's why I really can't figure out how long our institutions and everyone else will be playing with the dignity of this home and the most legislative authority in this country. So then I wonder if we can pass any law that anyone else will respect, if no one respects us, and that's obvious proof that this is it. That's why I don't see the way out, and simply, Mr. Chairman, you know I don't flatter anyone, I admire you, how you've endured all these writings, how you've asked for it, so it's just amazing, so I have to laugh too. Here, now, when I'm done, I'm gonna laugh, not yet. Well, remember a little bit that you kept me here to stand, I don't know how many minutes, how many minutes you've read the oath. ...I respect, a man lays before you. And what we're going to undo now, right? It's not valid. It's nothing. It's an important announcement. What's the notice? Why didn't they write down what they suggested? It's not okay, it's not all respected, they found it in some drawers, what. Who's next? I'm sorry about the gentleman, the friend I know before the war, that he came into this situation, that we, Parliament, came into a situation, that the SNSD came into a situation. And now we have this variant which, of course and legitimately: man if he votes some law that he passed, man voted, the Constitutional Court to make the situation a little bit more complicated. So today we're going to ask Mr. Grabovac to vote on all the laws, because no one has taken his mandate yet, it doesn't say here that he's been taken from him, that he's voted on all the laws, so when they, when someone, remembers they haven't answered someone, someone complains to the Constitutional Court, then we'll complicate, see what we've adopted, what we haven't, etc., etc. It's really tragic, and if it wasn't sad, it'd be funny how our institutions mess with us. No wonder. That's why I fully support your discussion, Mr. Chairman. Do we have the right to discuss who in this country or just to criticize ourselves and talk about ourselves? Thank you very much. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22371	The next is the second vice-president, Dr. Milorad Živković, and let the honorable be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22372	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22373	Is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22374	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22375	Oh, sorry, you're next. Let the distinguished representative Milorad Živković be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22376	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, we can discuss this all day long, and in the end we can't decide anything, because it's the Electoral Commission that needs to be given again, whether, one or another decision is made or confirmed by the one that has already been made. I therefore propose that today we discuss these points of the agenda, finish the debate, and vote before the next session, so we schedule an appointment an hour ago, and in the meantime we charge the BiH Election Commission to resolve the issue of fellow Grabovac. I think maybe it's the only way to keep working today. Everything else would have been just a waste of the day, wouldn't it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22377	Lozančić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22378	Replication to Honourable MP Ahmetović what we can do, what we can't. In my opinion, the Election Commission won't do its job, Mr. Honorary Representative. That's the problem. And we're facing problems. The election board won't do its job, they won't make a decision. Instead of making a decision, they send us letters, conclusions, notices, not to say, they're playing with us here. So the problem is they don't want to work. I agree with you that they should do their job. According to the Electoral Law when they found out Mr. Grabovac was in conflict of interest, that his ban, etc., should have known that before they delivered the decision, but here they didn't check. And when did they find out? From their writings, I have to say, it's clear they found out on 26.11. Do you know what the date is today? 17.12! That's a lot more than 15 days. The deadline under the Election Law on which everyone and I appeal to him when the Electoral Commission suspends the term of office of the elected Member of the Authority at any level on the day of the entry of one of the reasons for the termination of the term of office laid down by the law, the Central Election Commission shall decide on the termination of the term of office of the elected 16 members of the Authority within a period not exceeding 15 days from the date on which the reasons for the termination of the term of office have taken place, or from the knowledge of the reason for the termination of the term of office. And we've been asking the Electoral Commission all along just to make a decision, to do his job, nothing else. I don't even get into what they're going to decide, and it's their independence, but they... make decisions. They, for the first time, have informed us of this issue, informed us that this is because they predicted that Mr Grabovac was banned from running. Okay. The second time they keep us informed, they haven't even given him a decision. The third time they've informed us, they've given us a third reason. What's the real reason? So the problem is, so what I'm aware of is that we can't make a decision about giving or taking a term of office, that's quite clear to me. And I have a problem, I have a man who's been working three sessions here, we all have a problem, which for me has been a representative so far for three sessions. So I have this problem and I now, today I don't know – whether he's a representative or not. It's just a problem. And that election commission, whose job it is, won't solve it, won't. So I say responsibly, they will not. On the three letters we sent in front of the College, he won't, he's sending us some arguments, letters, etc., instead of making a decision. There's a problem. That's why, I'm not about to keep quiet, I'm not about to say we don't know what we're gonna do. So, it's no problem, I know that we don't have all elected representatives today, what Mr. Džaferović was saying, so we have a quorum. And we, Mr. Grabovac, could not come today, and we would have a quorum, but we still have a problem. So we have a problem with what's happened so far. Furthermore, they said today in a letter, "We didn't even deliver the decision, so he couldn't even take the mandate." I ask the question what did they deliver this decision to us? Is that what they're delivering to us inadmissible decisions? In one letter, they said it wasn't a decision of power, they're messing with us. I have here a letter accompanying them 'In addition to the Central Election Commission Decision... on the termination of the term of office of Snježana Rajilić, MPs... and the assignment of the mandate to the next qualified candidate.' Received on 14.11., this was delivered to Parliament, and later said - it is not a valid decision. What's rightful now? Is this exactly what they wrote? Maybe some porter signed this, I mean, I don't know what to believe anymore. So that's the essential question. It's not a question of whether Mr. Grabovac is going to be a representative or if he's going to be someone else. It's completely peripheral. But I expect the CEC to make decisions in accordance with the law and, in accordance with the law, to inform this home, rather than otherwise. Here, that's the point. The next is the second vice-president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22379	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22380	Replica, distinguished representative Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22381	Well, I wouldn't call it a replica. We agree in principle, but I suggested we get out of this situation. Either we open or we suggest a agenda point, since we have a lot of these memos on the report or information on the work of the Election Commission. I'm trying to be practical, 17, not go round and round. By which time we'll be spinning round, three hours, and then in the end we'll have nothing. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22382	Živković, and let Nanic be prepared. May I have your attention, hello MPs, MPs, please, the man is speaking. Mr. Križanović, Ajanović, sit down.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22383	Thank you. I still think we haven't wasted this time discussing it. Here, you see, there are good initiatives as Mr Ahmetović suggested. The fact that the damage is great is done, the damage to the integrity of one man, the honest and honest one who, by no means, has come into one situation that has to defend himself for something others have done. He was not guilty even when they imposed sanctions on him, and the Constitutional Court will find it irrefutable and, afterwards, if the CEC withdraws the mandate from the man, he will surely complain and this assembly will have to pay the full amount of his non-compliance, or non-participation in these sessions of the Parliamentary Assembly. Count on damage, which has already been done, to be multiplied if the CEC is not correctly determined. We here need to talk about facts. The facts of what this home could and should have done, which is that it has acted under the Election Commission's decision of 14.11.2008, which, in the end, says that two days is needed, has time for appeal, no one has complained, because the complaint was to go through the CEC and this house called on the MP to attend the session in 19th, on the oath. Niko of the lawyers can dispute the fact that this man, and that that decision has been made, and that this man has become an MP here. The fact that he wasn't given after that, the thing with this parliament has nothing to do with it. He wasn't even informed that he wasn't being served, or that this man, on that day, couldn't vote. He was present that day, that day he voted and acted in accordance with the law and the Constitution of this country, as an MP. After that, a conclusion is delivered on the renewal of the administrative procedure, please look only at the dates, it was considered by the Election Commission on 26.11. - 15 days after their debate, at the CEC, they sent a notice to Parliament saying the execution of the decision is delayed. How can we delay the execution of the decision when we have made the decision. What is the legal term for what has been done, where execution can be found rightly, the delay in the execution of a decision that has already been made. This Parliament did it. And after that, the last thing we got today, to say that Grabovac was never served, and that's not a powerful one. It is justified that the appeal was not, that this parliament adopted the decision, and we cannot behave differently, but according to the law in which we are asking for the need to take away a man's mandate or suspend his mandate – it is necessary to make a decision. We disagree that we should vote on it. We need to realize that we have what we have and to act the way we have done so far, and that he is a full member of this House until another decision is made.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22384	Džaferović, replica. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22385	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I didn't accidentally say what I said. Believe me, I wouldn't answer my word today that, before I answer, I haven't received this letter since 16.12.2008. Because I've read this all together and now I'm going to help you, Mr. Živković, so I'm going to tell you some things that you haven't seen, because in the end when someone looks at this together he's going to listen to the stenogram but he's going to read the papers first. There is a decision on the termination of the mandate and the allocation of the mandate to the next qualified candidate. So from 14.11.2008 – Snježana ends the mandate, a colleague of Snježana Rajilić, and Mr. Milenko Grabovac is given the mandate. And this was done by the decision to suspend the mandate and to grant the mandate to the next qualified candidate on 14.11.2008. Then the next thing I know, I explain to you why I didn't want to answer the word that I didn't get this letter today, he says, the conclusion on the renewal of the administrative procedure and then it is said, 'It is allowed to renew the procedure that ended with the decision of the Central Election Commission's number, and then, since 10.11., at the point of the 2nd disposition of that decision, 'which refers to the mandate to the next qualified candidate, Milenko Grabovac,' and then tells what will be done in the renewed procedure. And now watch what is said in that point that is most important to us here, it says - until the process is completed. Listen now, Mr. Živković, 'the implementation of the decision of the 1st disposition of this conclusion' is delayed. Watch out, 'this conclusion'. No, so this decision of 10.11. but this conclusion – in the section relating to the mandate of MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives from the list of compensation mandates of SNSD - Milorad Dodik. Therefore, point 3 of the conclusion of 26.11.2008 does not suspend, at least to me, the point 2 clearly is not suspended. Decision of 10.11.2008 granting the mandate. It can be assumed that this is so, but it does not say here, but rather suspends this decision from the position (1) of the disposition of this conclusion. The decision referred to in Article 1(1) of the Opinion is to allow the renewal of the procedure, which was concluded by the CEC decision, and then here it is spoken... in point 2 of the disposition relating to the... qualified candidate. That's why I didn't want to talk, because this is inconsistencies and it certainly is that this requires a debate on the Electoral Commission, of course this requires the responsibility of the Election Commission, it is certainly because, look out, we are, Parliament is the one who passed the law and Parliament is the one who appoints the CEC. It's our right, and it's our responsibility. And what I'm talking about today, I'm only talking about the legitimacy and legality of Parliament's decisions made and its protection because of the situation, please, which we've been brought into, I'm not talking about whether or not someone should be sent to account. Of course you should. And we, if we don't, only then will we be irresponsible and discuss it here in this House. And I'd be silent today if this third one hadn't arrived where things are now further explained. Look, in the way I could have guessed, but it doesn't matter what I guess, it's important what it says, and here it says, "For reasons given, Mr. Milenko Grabovac couldn't take over as a representative at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives." And of course, here's the key question right now. When a person decides to renew the completed procedure, the question arises as to what is the matter with the decision or whether the outcome remains, following a renewed procedure, which he previously made as a decision, given the principles of justice, the principles of finality and the principles of enforcement in the procedures applied to the BiH authorities, in this case, in the administrative procedure. So that's the question. And I found a way out of this situation, for myself, so that's why I didn't want to answer my word, that when the authority decides to renew a certain procedure, then 19 goes back to what it decided until it decided otherwise in the renewed procedure. That's the principle, then. We need to test him, we need to check him out, I'm now speaking as Šefik Džaferović, not speaking as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, as things stand in the administrative process. But the thing is, it's complicated what we got here today, and that's why I answered the word and I needed to talk this long in front of this Parliament to explain the matter. I know what these words mean, and I didn't accidentally ask my colleague, I'm not insolent, because I realized that it applied to me, I asked my colleague to abstain from any vote today and we'll do the next one – today Parliament has to do, don't people, I think this can go where it shouldn't – and by next session they'll come and say what they've decided, what they've decided. This should be the conclusion of Parliament today, otherwise, we are doing what we believe should be done. That's why I suggested this as a way out of this situation, and I needed this to be fair, I mean honestly, I represent it in front of all of us here in this House, and that was the purpose of my reporting and my discussion. Don't bring, on the other hand, don't let Parliament - a colleague, don't be angry with this thing with you - that Parliament has nothing to do with one man, because of one of our colleagues and the problems of one of our colleagues, we are questioning Parliament's work. It's going to work, Parliament! We can have a need for an emergency session tomorrow and what to do then. We have a quorum. Let's understand these things this way, don't make decisions that tomorrow someone can, for formal reasons, bring down in the Constitutional Court and turn this country around. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22386	Mr. Nanić. Mr. Jovičić, what about you?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22387	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22388	Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22389	Dear Chairman, for us from the SNSD is not the goal of blocking Parliament's work, people. We're not going to take responsibility for how we're a remethyling factor, by all accounts, here we don't want to be involved in the debate. But now I'd have a number of other suggestions. I'm starting the CEC shift initiative right now. It's clear here, countless times, we're looking for a decision, we're not looking for a notice. The decision is a legal act that the CEC needs to deliver to us and says: it is done like this, we have made a mistake, we have not, what is it, written in a decision of what is, not a notice: it did not happen. We must put into position every institution that we have established to match this House. That's the point. And to understand us. I don't think anyone, of course, can accuse anyone because no one has said so, is our target from the SNSD and anyone from the RS to block Parliament's work. We're the constructive part and we want to participate in the debate, but it's not our fault this happened. At least Mr. Grabovac. Someone called him here based on some other decision, based on something. He's not a man I just came by and said I wanted to be an MP. Can we just let someone play with us like this? 20 That was the essence of my discussion just now and now what I've reported, as a replica. It's an honor to clarify Mr. Džaferović, but what did we get again? Let's freeze somebody! How many degrees? What's an optimal measure to freeze a man, how many degrees, what time limit, how long? We need to know everything. So, what do we do now? We're looking for a break, so we're blocked, so we're not going to be a part of the work. We will, but someone else brought us here, and we can't take it from here that it's our fault. Here, we're nothing, none of us sitting here from parliamentarians, but in particular we won't take responsibility for any of the full decisions we've made, laws and proposals, to have someone cancel us in the Constitutional Court, which is his, again, legitimate right.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22390	Thank you, Mr. Jovičić. Mr. Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22391	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I appreciate and share the opinion of the MPs that indeed we, as the Parliamentary Assembly, are involved in something that is not our problem, nor can we make a decision today, and in this sense I join those who say it is good that you do not put us in a position to vote on this issue, because it is not really a question to be voted on. And it's not a problem, as the chairman said, to make a mistake but to get out of these mistakes. It is obvious that this decision has been misread here, obviously,...from the College to, I do not know if it was in the committee responsible, to the Parliamentary Assembly, were made, slightly, questionable decisions regarding the mandate. I would ask us not to make another wrong decision. So, let's stop these decisions, get a final interpretation of the CEC and get this process over with. You remember this isn't the first time. In the appointment of ministers to the Council of Ministers, we also had very strange interpretations of conflicts of interest from the CEC, whether they have, do not, and it was left up to us to decide. I'm sure those people will have trouble getting their next mandates, too. In that sense, I think that we should continue to work on the agenda, to task the competent commission to bring this matter to an end, I don't know if there is or is any other committee, and that we may continue to work on these points of the agenda,... because here we are mixing the work of the CEC, the mandate, the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, our jurisdiction, when it comes to the agenda... the CEC report will then be able to say what we think about their work.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22392	Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22393	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I am, in fact, the biggest part of the discussion that I wanted to say heard from colleagues and colleagues earlier. I just wanted to remind you, actually, to share with you an experience that I have as representative of Parliament's House of Representatives. Since there was one situation in the 2002-2006 term in which a conflict of interest was identified by the MP and the House of Representatives Commission asked the Federal Parliament to declare whether or not the mandate would be withdrawn. After a fairly 21-long debate, the Federal Parliament's House of Representatives decided to declare the suspension or non-deprivement of the mandate and with a very narrow one, as I would say, the results of the vote, with 50, seem to me, to be one vote "for" and 48 "against" MPs suspended the mandate. After that, the oath to appoint the new representative of the political party followed, but what I wanted to say was that the representative, who was thus suspended from office, had been sued by the Electoral Commission and the Commission for the appointment of the House of Representatives of the Federation Parliament and had actually received court proceedings. Today, since I am listening to this story, again in the same way, I am absolutely convinced that then the House of Representatives of the Federation, in a way, entered the CEC's competence and I would absolutely not want to meet myself personally, and with other colleagues and colleagues, in this situation to decide on the mandate of our colleague, so that, indeed, I think we should look for a situation in which the CEC will, in optimal time, declare the mandate of a fellow SNSD representative who received the mandate after the representative, Snježana Rajilić, and that in some way, we are asking the CEC to do its job... right to the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22394	Thank you. Rifat Dolić. Is there anyone else interested in the discussion, please, for planning? There isn't. Thank you. All we have left is Rifet Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22395	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, it seems to me that we are having an unnecessary discussion of something that is quite clear. We have received a decision on the appointment of a respected colleague, who, after that decision, took an oath and the matter is clear to us. I mean, I don't need to delay a statement, or anything further, only I think it would be necessary after this memo: The Electoral Commission should inform that counterpart Milenko Grabovac is the appointed representative of this home and that it will be until the Election Commission has taken the mandate or otherwise resolves this issue by its new decision. I think the thing here is clear to me. I'm also not going to make a statement about taking a mandate or anything else, because it's a very clear thing to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22396	It was not the College's intention, nor was it for Parliament to decide on the mandate, etc. We wanted to exchange views, inform you, etc. So, the College had no decision based on which it would not invite Mr. Grabovac for today's session. Here's what I'm saying. I'm closing the debate, and there's about what's going on here. The closest initiative to me is the opinion of Mr. Križanović who says, "Here, we're in the status quo, we're working." Keeping in mind what Mr Džaferović was talking about, when it comes to the renewal of proceedings and the consequences of the renewal of proceedings, etc., when we come to the vote, we will see that we avoid bringing Parliament into this situation, etc. Here, if there's no reason, Bakire, for a break for other things, I suggest we finally go. Here, if you agree, this is how we work, the gentleman is here. As for 22 communications with the CEC, make sure that the College, practically, has communication and is constantly seeking – decision, decision, make. Here, this is how I think we've finished this previous issue and we're going now to discuss the agenda. At the extended college we established yesterday a draft agenda, here's Mr. Chairman to take over.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22397	Thank you. On the extended Home College, yesterday, we established certain amendments and additions to the agenda proposals that you received in the invitation to the session. It's about the next one. For the draft law under point 6 of the earlier draft agenda, the relevant Joint Defence and Security Commission has requested an extension of the time limit for the submission of the report. It is about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Production of Arms and Military Equipment. The college set a deadline of 19 December with a recommendation to submit the report by 15 December 2008 so that it could be considered at this session in the second reading. Since we have not received a report in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, the House should declare itself and grant a new deadline under Article 111(6) of the Rules of Procedure. For the sake of this, we have put the House's statement on setting a new deadline for this bill on the agenda. The 7th, 8th, 9th and 10th points of the draft agenda have been reformed to the extent that the opinions of the relevant committees on draft laws have been added, since principles have not been adopted. It is about the proposal for a law on border control, the proposal for a law on control of the movement of arms and military equipment, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enabling of Obligations under the account of old foreign currency savings and the 13th place we moved to the earlier 19th point – Giving consent to ratifying the agreement. A new point has been added to the Commission's report on the attempt to reach agreement on the request of Representative Sadik Bahtić to consider the proposal for a law on state property of BiH under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. We changed the order of the dots for the reason we estimated that today we would not finish the entire agenda of this session. In this context, the College decided that after the 15th point it would give a break and then hold a vote on these materials so that the commission could continue to consider the law under its jurisdiction. I remind you, as we've done so far, we'll be working until 6:00. So much for the opening notes regarding the draft agenda. You've got a new agenda proposal on the bench. I'm opening a debate. 23 Dear Representative Denis Bećirović signed up first.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22398	Your Honor, I would like first to remind you of a very important fact. I listened to your explanation on behalf of the College, and first of all I would like to say that in the last session, I proposed, in accordance with Article 65 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, that the agenda ‘A consideration of the consequences of the draft law on the territorial organisation of the RS’, which, in the remaining two municipalities of the Bosnian Kostanica and the Bosnian Ship of the said entity, is abolished by the prefix of Bosnian. So, I suggested that it be included in the last 41st session. But also, at the end of the presentation, I left an opportunity for the College, as I said at the time, because of the vastness of the agenda and the need to finish within the scheduled time period of that session, that possibly this item of the agenda, if you estimate that it overworks the agenda of the last session, you should put it for the next session. You then opted for the agenda point to come to today's session. In addition to that, I would like to say that this argument of the College is not in agreement with what we have agreed, and that this is the best evidence is a copy of the record that we need today to verify. So I'm just going to read the part about this part. "The chairman, Lozančić, replied that Beqirovic's proposal will certainly not be on the agenda of this session, because the agenda has already been established," and I am now stressing, 'and his initiative for inclusion in the agenda of the next session will be processed in business, in line with his request at today's session'. So, to me, the thing is quite clear, and this agenda point today needs to be on the agenda. I don't think that in determining the agenda, and especially in interpreting the Rules of Procedure, we can't have double arches. At one session, you act one way, when it comes to this problem, and on the other, on the other. That is, it is enough to look at this last copy of the record, not to go to the previous copies of the minutes we adopted, so we will come very clearly to see how and how we included certain points of the agenda. So, let me cut it short. I'm not looking for anything but what we've already done at the previous House of Representatives. So I'm asking that we put this in with our procedure, too. If we change and change our Rules of Procedure, maybe another Rules of Procedure will edit it differently, but this is how we have done and interpreted this part of the Rules of Procedure. So I hope there's no need for me to report again, to illustrate it with the records from the many previous sessions where we've been working on this principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22399	I have to say that I'm not sure if you suggested that this point be placed in today's agenda and I ask you to be decident – do you suggest that this point be placed on the agenda and if you suggest I put it on the House's statement. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22400	Well, even at the last session, I suggested that it be included in the agenda, so I left, I repeat, the possibility, if you consider it a college that it would burden you on the agenda, to put it on the agenda today. And that's how a number of MPs worked at the previous House of Representatives sessions. I really don't know where the problem is right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22401	Dear colleague, I've read the Rules of Procedure. I really ask you to respect, it is the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and I have read the provision of the Rules of Procedure. So it's not up to the College to put something on the agenda or not, but the basis of each representative's proposal states the House at the session. So it can't be the College, nor today the College will decide whether this item will be on the agenda or not, but the House if you suggest that this point be placed on the agenda of today's session. Here, use that right or don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22402	Let me help you then. So I'm sure I'm asking for this to get into the agenda today. But if I have to, then let me remind you at least, here's a copy of the record that we're about to adopt today, so we don't move on. Here, today we're adopting a copy of the 41st session. Look at page two, it says, point four. Consideration of the European Parliament's resolution (and just to look at which procedure this agenda item came to the agenda). We didn't vote at the session to get it into the agenda, but we just did this methodology, so that's how we did it. Why did you change the interpretation at this point right now, I don't know, but here, I insist that we vote and get this into the agenda today. As for that part of the Rules of Procedure that says, "deliver in writing" material, etc., and you know I did it at the last session.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22403	Thank you. Who's still being reported for a debate on the agenda? Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22404	There's gonna be an intervention on the agenda, I'm a little early, but I think we should get it over with.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22405	So we're discussing the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22406	There'll only be intervention on the record. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22407	So we don't have any other reported, at this point, to discuss the agenda. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We have a proposal from distinguished representative Denis Bećirović to include the item on the agenda of today's session 'A consideration of the consequences of the draft law on the territorial organisation of the RS, which in the remaining two municipalities of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Boat of the said entity is abolished by the prefix of Bosnian'. Please prepare to make a statement on this proposal. Vote now. Can someone from the technical service tell us if we can continue the vote? Please prepare for the vote, we repeat the vote on this proposal. Vote now! 17 votes "for", seven "against", three "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So, the request for a re-election. Please prepare and repeat your vote. Vote now! 17 votes "for", seven "against", three "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. We don't have a chance to agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22409	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22410	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22411	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22412	Business intervention, distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22413	On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, and under the authority of the club president, I seek a 20-minute break to show myself above the emerging situation, which is that Parliament does not even want to discuss killing the name of the state it represents in RS municipalities. A 20-minute break and I'd like it delivered to me personally. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22414	So I'm taking a 20-minute break. Continuing at 12.05. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please take your seats. A number of MPs, before I give my word to the president of the SDP Club, have suggested that their vote for technical reasons was not registered, and they asked us to repeat the vote and I will respect that request, so we will repeat the vote on the proposal of distinguished representative Denis Bećirović, and after that we will give a word to the club president, or the club representative, might be better. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 23 votes "yes", nine "against", without "abstained" votes, an insufficient entity majority. There's no consent. We vote in the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 24 votes "yes", nine "against". [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22418	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my regret that there has been an unnecessary waste of time, and we believe that there has been a lack of practice in including the agenda. I think there's really a precedent here and that it's strayed from the practice of running for new agenda points and being included in the next session. So, I'm sorry, because we've lost an unnecessarily hourly and I want to say that these twenty extra minutes, outside of our request for a break, we're not responsible for that part of the time. And the additional reason to ask for a break was to really see what happened to electronics, because in the first vote there were only 27 MPs, here we are now that 34 voted, it says up there are 38 of us, so there were technical reasons to look for this break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22419	I thank the esteemed representative Križanović. I find that the 42nd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives has its next agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 41st session of the House of Representatives; 2. Agents' questions and answers; 3. Proposal for a Law on the Protection and Wellbeing of Animals (second reading); 4. Proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Development of the Information Society of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 6. Proposal for a law on border control, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission (first reading); 7. Proposal for a law on the control of the movement of arms and military equipment, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission (first reading); 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission – Proposers Niko Lozančić, Beriz Belkić and Milorad Živković; 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconciliation of Obligations on the basis of an account of old foreign exchange savings, with Opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget – Proposer Jerko Ivanković Lijanović (first reading); 10. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of a holocaust, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity – Proposer Ekrem Ajanović (first reading); 11. Declaration by the House on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of a report on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Production of Arms and Military Equipment; 12. Report by the Commission on the attempt to reach agreement on the proposal for a House's clear statement that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Public TV System of BiH is also being considered in the second reading; 28 13. Report by the Commission on the attempt to reach agreement on Sadik Bahtić's request for consideration of the proposal for a law on state property of BiH under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure; 14. Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities – Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 15. Giving consent to ratification (a) the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of Ukraine, (b) the Agreement on Cultural Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of China, (c) the Note of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Norway on the revision of the succession of bilateral agreements concluded between the former SFRY and the Kingdom of Norway; (d) the European Agreement on Main Internal Affairs, on Inland Waterways of International Meaning (AGN); e) the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary concerning the succession of bilateral international contracts concluded between the Federal People's Republic of YugoslaviaSocial Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the People's Republic of Hungary; f) Act XXIII of the World Postal Association – Bucharest, 2004. 16. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, police and state officials of Bosnia and Herzegovina in foreign peace support operations for the period from 1. 3. 2008 to 30. Six. 2008 17. The debate on the subject of the Council of Europe and its activities (the basis for the debate is the report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in 2008); 18. Discussion on the presentation of the chairmanship of the Bureau of the BIH, Mr Haris Silajdžić, during his address at the UN General Assembly in New York and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg (additional Initiative of Representative Branko Dokić); 19. Discussion on the resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the goals and measures of RS policy from the 14th special session, held in 15.10.2008 (adopted Initiative of Representatives of Remzija Kadrić). We're moving on to the first point of Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 41st session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22422	The Honorable Chairman! On page 11, under point 17, an inversion was made, so the proposals of my conclusion and Mr. Joza Križanović were replaced. So, the easiest way to make changes is to move my conclusion below 5 and make Mr. Križanović's proposal under 4, for the sake of the record and its verification. So there's been a mistake because it's about different proposals for conclusions. And it just needs to be replaced, so it's very easy. Let's keep the whole formulation up there, as you predicted when anyone suggested, so just that my conclusion, which is now number 4, gets 5, and Mr. Križanović from 5, to go to 4.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22423	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Jovičić. The word has the first deputy president, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22424	It is not an objection to the record in terms of accuracy, or transfer of what was happening at the 41st session. The reference refers to the method of interpreting the outcome of the vote on point A. 5. last session, hence the request of Parliamentarian Sadik Bahtić to consider the proposal for a law on state property according to a reduced procedure, i.e. under Article 126. The chairman then found that when he voted on the request for a procedure that the request had not received entity support. The minutes showed a total of 21 "for" votes from Federation 17, RS four; "against" eight, "abstained" were four MPs. So, according to the information I have, out of the 12 RS MPs present, four MPs voted for this request, one-third present. We in the College have not reached agreement on the interpretation of this, but I want it to be established here, and we will be restrained when we declare this record and, of course, seek other legal ways to check the application of the constitutional provision that we are working on.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22425	No more reports. There is. Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22426	Here, I think we have a problem here. The chairman found it so when it happened, as Mr Belkic said, that Mr Belkić's findings and Mr Belkić didn't react, so then. That decision that we made became valid was not an objection to it. I have to say that last time, here's the mistake of voting from the SDS for closure, we weren't against the conclusion of bh. There... Transport and Communications Committees, although we discussed, say, different. But then we made a mistake in the vote, so here's what I want you to say now that we made a mistake. The conclusion was reached, a valid conclusion, but the SDS voted against its discussions and we voted wrongly. And I'm asking for it to get into the record, so this statement of mine that we voted wrong back then. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22427	I don't have any other reports. I can only conclude that I do not view this as remarks to this record, because it was not an observation that something was correctly entered into this record. This correction by the esteemed representative Jovičić can be respected because it is a technical correction and I think it can be appreciated. There are no others reported. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the second item of the agenda: Ad. 2. Agents' questions and answers The questions were answered by representatives: Azra Hadžiahmetović and Šemsudin Mehmedović of the Council of Ministers, asked questions at the 35th session; Šemsudin Mehmedović, Denis Bećirović and Sefer Halilović of the Council of Ministers, asked questions at the 36th session; Slavko Jovičić of the Council of Ministers received an answer to the question asked at the 36th and 2nd special session; Sadik Ahmetović, Milorad Živković, Mirko Okolić and Rifat Dolić of the Council of Ministers, asked questions at the 38th session; Bajazit Jašarević, Denis Bećirović and Rifat Dolić of the Council of Ministers, asked questions asked at the 39th session; Sadik Bahtić of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, when asked at the 41s; Sadikmetovic received an answer from the Council of Ministers at the 2nd meeting's's meeting: 'Res, the Council. You have the possibility of commenting on the answer. Who's applying? Here, I'll go in this electronic order. Business intervention, esteemed representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22429	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of NGOs and dear guests, business intervention is that I have now heard for the first time that I have received answers to the parliamentary question. It's probably some technical mistake, I didn't get them. I'm asking professional services to deliver it to me right now. I will, in the meantime, read and see if I have the need to comment on that parliamentary question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22430	I thank the esteemed representative of Okolić. I'm joining a request from the professional service to provide you with an answer if you haven't received it by now. 31 The next was announced by the honourable representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, and let the honourable representative Husein Nanić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22431	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have also been informed that I have received an answer to my question at the 36th session, and I have not received an answer. I'd like the secretary to listen to this, so I didn't get an answer to my question I asked at the 36th session either. But I want to comment on the answer I set at the 35th session, because I got it. In fact, if you remember, I asked the question: "How long has the citizens of Serbia and Croatia achieved dual citizenship in BiH so far and how many BiH citizens have achieved dual citizenship in Serbia and Croatia?" Unfortunately, I received a reply from the Council of Ministers, or the competent Ministry of Civil Affairs, to say this: 'The registration of BiH citizens and entities is run by competent entity bodies, the home office in municipalities, so the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs cannot give a more precise answer in terms of the asked parliamentary question.' In the information era, we have this kind of response that comes from the Ministry of Civil Affairs is unacceptable to me. Since we have a CIPS service that has these records, I would like to and, behold, I will take the opportunity to renew this issue to the competent ministry when asking parliamentary questions and to provide me with an accurate and precise answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22432	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Husein Nanić, and let the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22433	I thank you, Chairman. I'd like to... point out a phenomenon that we have in answering parliamentary questions and ask that it be removed. I already have several answers to the parliamentary question at the moment and the day we open the session and it is established that I have received an answer to the parliamentary question. I can't even be ready to comment on him. In that sense, to make a difference, means that at least, I don't know how many days, we need to get, in order to be recorded that we have received answers to parliamentary questions. Because I've got an answer on the Uni railway that consists of, I don't know, five sheets, I have to spend time on it, prepare for the session, I can't comment. In that sense, I give one suggestion that we really get on time – not the day when the session is held – the answer to the parliamentary question, because then we can't even comment on it. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22434	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22435	Thank you. I don't know if this has become a practice, but what I'd say is the same case as Mr. Okolić and Mehmedović. I didn't get any answers either for a special session or this one, but I've already intervened at the professional service to see what it was about. Now, let me not repeat that procedure as it goes and when they arrive. But I didn't get any answers. I've already intervened, so I'll see what professional service does.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22436	Since this has obviously become a phenomenon, I suggest we take the comments off the agenda today, and the College will get relevant information, see where the problem is. Why don't you get answers, or what Mr. Nanić said, and you'll be informed at the next session, when you will have the opportunity to comment on these questions. And now we're going to be asking parliamentary questions. Please, so the comments, we leave everything for the next session, because we have too many agents that we have records that have received answers, and they haven't received answers and that we wouldn't...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22437	I insist...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22438	Now, if you insist, we'll give you the right to comment on your answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22439	Thank you. In fact, the chairman, I asked a question at one of the previous sessions about the Algerian Group and the participation of people, specifically from the BiH Party, in the process. And I've got one answer I haven't got yet. The following was said, among other things: 'The Algerian group case took place long before the Ministry of Security was established at the state level', the first finding. Second: 'That the arrest of members etc. done by other bodies and institutions.' And it's all the Council of Ministers, so that's the whole answer. So it happened before the Ministry of Security was established and the other thing is that it was done by other bodies and institutions. That response was found at the 68th Council of Ministers meeting, 3.12. I looked at the answer to this question and looked at all the other questions. And of course, I would not now be burdening Parliament with this, let's say, the question has been asked: 'What have you done to protect the remaining assets, the property of the Socialist Union', etc. From the point of view of this answer, in all these answers it could be the same as in this answer. 33 So all of this happened before a ministry was established at the state level or this other formulation was 'produced by other bodies and institutions'. This is indeed an extremely inappropriate... answer to the parliamentary question, because we have been buried here for years and months with hundreds of pages of response from the Council of Ministers and by the ministries related to the Algerian group, but, of course, the Council of Ministers responded when it came to the people of the SDP of BiH. Now, when we need to see full insight, to see what others who were at that time in power are, there comes this totally inappropriate answer. And that's why I called to ask one more of Tarik Sadović's security ministers to answer this question. And if he won't answer this question, that's a solution. But then we'll do what we think we should do within the Rules of Procedure and what the Constitution allows us to do in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22440	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22441	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22442	It's the same comment, isn't it? Here, those who insist on commenting, then we'll give everyone a comment, I'm in order to protect the integrity of the MPs I thought we'd settle it at the next session, but since you insist otherwise, I can't deny it to you. Mr. Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22443	I asked one of the previous sessions: "Who is using property from the former Socialist Union of the Workers' People of BiH, the former Alliance of the Socialist Youth of the Republic of BiH and the former Union of the Republic of BiH?" I received an incredible answer from the Council of Ministers, which reads: 'The BiH Law has no record of who is using former SSRN, SSO and SSBiH assets.' I remind this House and the Council of Ministers that this is not about insignificant property and that SSRNBiH and SSORBiH and SSBiH have had enormous assets. And if there is a proposal and a campaign to determine what is wrong with the assets of the former SK Yugoslavia, then there is no reason for the Council of Ministers to grumble before such a fact and say it does not know, namely this one clearly states that he does not care about the assets of these three former socio-political organisations. Because I'm going to do it one more time, it's not about insignificant property, it's about huge resources, and I find the answer inappropriate for an MP to respond in this way. It would be even better if they didn't answer anything, than in this way to say -- we don't know, we don't have the data to use. Then what do they know if they don't know this? 34
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22444	Who else wants to comment? Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22445	Here, in the meantime I got this answer, which is late, unfortunately, here I got later, and I would like to really, really, a bit of a strange answer, not to say incorrect to us agents by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. My question was, if you remember the 36th session: 'When will the issue of return of the property be resolved Fati Orlović, i.e. The destruction of the church from its yard?' I don't know if you've had a chance to read a copy of this reply, the last paragraph, because here is the chronology of events, meetings of various people in the Bratunac Municipality. And the last paragraph is this very strange. 'The Ministry considers it necessary to try a joint agreement between the most responsible representatives of the Eparchy of the Bell-Tuzlan government and Vasili and the Tuzlan Mufti Kavazović, the representative of this ministry, the Secretariat for the faith of the RS, and representatives of the local community, to resolve this issue, would lead to a significant, more complete achievement of freedom of religion in the territory of the Bratunac municipality, including the whole of BiH' Please, this is treated as freedom of religion. In general, the issue of property-legal relations is ignored, in fact, the return of property to this powerless old woman, whom the RS police are constantly arresting and taking to trial, seems to me in Bijeljina, etc. I think this is a very incorrect, illegal, and one illogical relationship between this ministry and one important issue. I, I insist, ask this ministry, at the very least, to apologize to the esteemed old woman Fata Orlović for the response delivered, not to me, here as a representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22446	Thank you. Anyone else want to comment? Dear Representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22447	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I ask a lot of questions and rarely comment on the answers received. I'm asking a question for two reasons. First, to get some information from the competent institutions. And secondly, to encourage certain activities of these competent institutions. At the 38th session, I asked the Council of Ministers: "What international conventions, agreements, protocols and memos of BiH have not signed and ratified, and for this there is an objectively expressed interest in the state, its institutions, citizens?" And I was asked to answer 35 of this question analytically, citing a list of unsigned conventions, agreements, protocols and institutions that are competent to do so. Instead of what I was looking for, I was given an easy answer, where I was described the procedure of signing and ratifying agreements, conventions, and here I was suggested that this issue should be referred to all the ministries in the BiH Council of Ministers, of course, and what was logical to do so by the Council of Ministers, instead of doing it again here. So I'm asking that my question repeat itself and get an answer to what I asked for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22448	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić, comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22449	I will comment, very briefly, on the answer to my asked question, where I statistically sought, decidently, at the level of state, entity, canton, Brcko District and municipalities. And in this answer I received mostly the following explanation: that it is impossible to give such data in all segments, approximately, just commented on these data, but there is no answer to that. However, what is important to me and what I see in this answer as something that we can only solve in the next period is the answer that contains this: 'So precise and comprehensive indicators, in answer to this question, can only give a census in BiH'... So this is my comment that I didn't get the answer, that, in my opinion, it was possible to give a more precise answer to these questions, because we often use the term of return. We often present the data, and the ministry builds up and claims there is no data, that at the level of municipalities and cantons, it doesn't even keep that data at all, and that we can only get that data from the population list, which we insist on doing so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22450	Are there any more registered comments? There isn't. We're moving on to asking parliamentary questions. The first was announced by the distinguished representative Husein Nanić, and may the distinguished representative Mehmed Suljkanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22451	I thank you, Chairman. I would like to ask today a parliamentary question to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. 36 Since we have had the opportunity recently to visit Montenegrin Prime Minister Bosnia and Herzegovina at a joint press conference, we hear statements that there are no open issues between BiH and Montenegro, and four interstate agreements have been signed and the signing of the BiH-Montenegro border agreement has been announced, which I certainly welcome, I would like to remind us and the chairman of the Council of Ministers here that Montenegro still has not officially apologized to families of the injured BiH citizens arrested on the Montenegrin coast, deported and extradited to the RS police in '92. the year, and that no criminal proceedings and sanctioned all criminals who participated in the arrest and deportation of Bosniak refugees from Montenegro in '92. A year. It is known that at least 86 Bošnjak who sought refuge in Montenegro have been killed on that occasion since the war in BiH. I ask the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers: 'Is it and will it seek the official apology of Montenegro and the disclosure of the full truth about the injured Bošnjak, as a condition for signing those contracts and will BiH continue to seek the interrogation and sanctioning of criminals or will they continue to claim that there are no open questions between BiH and Montenegro?' The next question, also, I am asking the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which concerns border crossings in the UN-Sani Canton of Election Unit 1 from which I have come, where for a long time, for more than 10 years, from the municipalities of Unsko-Sani Canton, more specifically Great Kladuma, Cazin and Bihać, there are requirements for opening border crossings in the areas of Martin Brod, the municipality of Bihać, Tržička Rastela, the municipalities of Cazin and two in the municipality of Velika Kladu, meaning the opening of border crossings for border traffic in the border area, and for the sake of uninterrupted access to land properties owned by BiH citizens in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers: "Is there a Council of Ministers in the plan and what activities are in place to open these small-scale crossings."
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22452	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Mehmed Suljkanović, and let the distinguished representative Šemsudin Mehmedović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22453	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests! My question is addressed to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, more specifically to the Commission for the selection of members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security. 'Act number 01-34-2-977-8-MP/08 of 10. Seven. In 2008, the Commission for the selection of members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security submitted a proposal for the best candidates from the interview for members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Security Agency. At the 64th session, held on 30.10.2008, the BiH Council of Ministers discussed the proposal for a list of best candidates, and the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopted the list in its session of 19.11.2008. As far as the procedure is concerned, I ask the following questions: 1. Why did the Commission, in its proposal for a best candidate ranking, not specify the number of points of all 19 candidates following an interview? 2. Why have the candidates who have not entered the 10 best candidates not been informed of the results of the interview? 3. I am looking for a list of registered candidates for members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency of others. 4. Was there among the proposed elected candidates those who are obviously in conflict of interest?" Those questions and the expected answers should shed light on the rather cloudy actions that are related to the above-mentioned proposal for best candidates for members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Security Agency. So it could have been that the only candidate who was from the ranks of the others, a respected university teacher, was not elected, and a candidate who was a member of the postgraduate study was elected to his place. So it could have happened that from one university, specifically the University of Tuzla, no candidate was elected, although I know with confidence that a lot of extremely high-quality candidates applied to this place. Also, among the proposed candidates, university rectors could be found where there is an obvious conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22454	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Suljkanović. The next is the distinguished representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, and let the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22455	As I said, because I am unhappy with the answer to my question at the 35th session, and about the number of BiH citizens who had Serbian and Croatian citizenship and vice versa, here I am using the opportunity, as my first question, to renew this issue. And I ask my second question to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the chairman, which reads: 'Why does the chairman of the Council of Ministers refuse to put into the agenda of the Council of Ministers a point on admission to citizenship of prominent athletes under Article 13. The BiH Citizenship Act, although it is known that the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs has completed all the necessary procedures and made 38 positive recommendations for the admission to citizenship of handball players Bojan Skoka and others, as early as June this year." The public of this country are well-known sports workers' appeals for these athletes. Whether the chairman of the Council of Ministers is working directly against the country's interest and on the basis of which it prevents the debate on this issue and a statement by other members of the Council of Ministers on this matter by refusing to place this item on the Council of Ministers' agenda for months. Also, I would like to ask the BiH Ministry for an answer on the procedure implemented on this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22456	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Lazar Prodanović, and may the distinguished representative Sefer Halilović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22457	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, ministers, guests, I have two short questions. One refers to, unfortunately, a long-term current negative situation caused by a negative model of higher education reform in BiH in the light of the sexual exploitation of students, an indication of prostitution and the use of intoxicating drugs. Namely, I want an answer: "Who in BiH allowed two public higher education institutions in the city of Tuzla to exist in the same education profile?" So, within the framework of the University of Tuzla, there is a Faculty of Law and, unfortunately, there is also a Department of Law in Tuzla, based in Tuzla. So, two public higher education institutions financed from the BiH state budget, i.e. lower levels of government of the BiH state. And, after the opening of the Faculty of Law in Tuzla, no decision has been made to allow this department for students who have not completed their studies at another identical higher education institution. Still, to make this story, unfortunately, an example of the most negative phenomenon in the Bosnian Herzegovina society. 'What is the amount of funds that has been allocated from the budget of Canton of Sarajevo or the Federation of BiH for this department, for which teachers of this institution are accused of the worst possible things in the education system?' I would like to refer the second question to the competent institution in the Council of Ministers or the one dealing with this problem. 'Is BiH's employment institutions, or immediately thereafter, checking acquired diplomas on the degree of education of employees in these institutions? How many cases of falsified diplomas have been discovered, so falsely issued documents, which could be very worrying. And the question is: How many civil servants in the BiH institution, the budget user, those who... complete a higher level of professional training in very short 39 hours for some information, so from more school preparation to high or high school, and how many did they get on this basis? From which university or university are these diplomas and what is the model of improving these civil servants by express procedure?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22458	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of Prodanović. The next is distinguished representative Sefer Halilović, and may the distinguished representative Rifat Dolić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22459	Mr. Chairman, I will once again ask the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Nikola Špirić: 'Who is using the assets of former SSRNBiH, former SSOBiH and former SSBiH?' I think this question is significant, and it should be answered. The second question is to you, the College of the House of Representatives of this Parliamentary Assembly: "When will the College of this House ensure the realization of its own decision on the direct TV transmission of sessions of this Parliament?" I will only remind you once again that only this parliament and the parliament of the Federation of BiH are the only parliaments from Turkey to Iceland or Ireland that are not directly transmitted via TV. I think the provision on TV transmissions is necessary from all of this that we're talking about here today.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22460	I thank the esteemed representative Halilović. The next is the distinguished representative Rifat Dolić, and let the distinguished representative of Remzija Kadrić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22461	Gentlemen, the chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished guests, I have one question, this is a question for the State Border Service and Customs Administration – via the Council of Ministers of BiH: 'What can you do to increase the transit of the state border at the border crossing points with the Republic of Croatia, with greater intensity of crossing state borders in both directions, especially during weekends and national holidays, when you often form kilometers of vehicle columns and when citizens needlessly wait for entry or exit from BiH, and therefore rightly care and direct abusive words and swearings to the account of the state and those who in any way represent?' I asked this question in this home a year ago, and since then, the picture hasn't changed, and the answer I got seems to me to try to convince the DGS and customs that I need to trust them more than my own eyes. I ask this question after a new address and very unpleasant comments from a large number of our citizens who are waiting unnecessarily for the crossing of the border on weekends or holidays when they come home or return to work in the countries of Western Europe. 40 I ask the question also after I personally look at these scenes and live at the border crossing of the Maljevac near Velika Kladhua and after I can't find rational answers myself or those who ask, why they have to wait and whether it has to be so. I can understand that the traffic at the border can't always be predicted, but I can't understand that it repeats it from weekend to weekend, from holidays to holidays, as I can't even understand the indifference of people at border control who with so much indolence look at long columns and people's disdain, rather than be better organized and controlled without much waiting in the column. At other border crossings, the situation may be somewhat better, but crossing the state border at the Maljevac border crossing near Velika Klamude, on weekends and on holidays, for many of our citizens is torture and nightmare. As an MP and a citizen, I call on those responsible to take what is necessary to carry out border control at the crossings effectively and professionally, so that citizens do not harass themselves by waiting and so that with ugly associations they do not come home and return to work in Western Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22462	I thank the honourable representative, Dolić. Next is Remzija Kadrić's distinguished representative, and let the distinguished representative Adem Huskić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22463	I thank you, Chairman. I have, therefore, two, three short questions from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, short. First question: 'In what directorates, agencies and other administrative organisations at the Council of Ministers, the term of office of director has already expired? Why does the chairman of the Council of Ministers not put the issue of elections and the appointment of new directors at the Council of Ministers' meetings?" Under two: 'Why does the chairman of the Council of Ministers not put on the agenda the question of the appointment of directors of the following agencies: Agency for Forensic Studies and Arts, Education and Professional Training of Staff, Police Support Agency, although all procedures until the appointment were completed several months ago, and in accordance with the Law on the Law on the Coordination of Police Authorities and Police Structures of BiH's "Official Messenger", number 36/08 of 6.5.2008. 'years.' And three: "Why isn't the Central Anti-Corruption Body formed at the level of BiH, agencies or the like, although the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Security have submitted appropriate proposals in this regard?" 41 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22464	I thank the esteemed representative, Kadrić. The next is distinguished representative Adem Huskić, and let the distinguished representative Bakir Izetbegović be prepared. Adem apparently gave up, the word has respected MP Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22465	I have two questions for the prime minister, Dr Špirić. Since it is often mentioned that the chairman of the Council of Ministers refuses to put on the agenda a certain point without justification, I ask that all materials referred to the General Secretariat, i.e. be delivered to us, as of today. The 2008 Council of Ministers, with entry dates on the list with a request for inclusion for the Council of Ministers' agenda. Namely, the Centre of Civil Initiatives recently announced that according to the Work Programme, only 8% of the planned volume was adopted in the BiH Parliament and about 27% on the Council of Ministers. I ask that the chairman of the Council of Ministers explain the following: "Why does it not include materials on the agenda and thus directly slow down the development of this country?" A second parliamentary issue also for Dr Špirić: 'The BiH Agency for Labour and Employment referred to the Council of Ministers two years ago a new Regulation on the Agency's internal organisation, which envisioned the expansion of several places and employment of people who would work on dealings with conflict relations and the Social Security Agreement with the countries of the region and Europe. For nearly two years, the chairman of the Council of Ministers refused to put this item on the agenda, and after it was included he only voted against it. All other members of the Council of Ministers supported this Regulation, and the chairman, Špirić, without reason and argument, voted against and thus challenged the document. I demand a statement from the chairman of the Council of Ministers: 'What is the reason that the sole vote against this regulation raises questions about the work of the Agency and the implementation of, for the citizens of this country, very important agreements?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22466	The next is Honourable representative Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22467	Thank you. My question concerns the Management Board of the Public TV Service. 'I ask the Management Board of the Public TV Service to deliver the conclusions from the last session of the Management Board.' 42 Explanation: I will also seek this on the Commission for Transport and Communication. Since some media have announced that at the last meeting of the Management Board, the Management Board has not accepted the conclusions of this home, meaning this country's highest legislative body, with the reason that we are waiting for the House of Peoples, and some media have announced that the maltenes have mocked the decisions of this home, which I cannot accept, because this home has adopted conclusions to overcome the difficult situation in television. In my opinion, the board of directors needs to implement the decisions of this home, to fix the situation on TV, and as far as I can tell, the board of directors is still pushing the old one. It's not their goal to analyze the situation, it's that there's a state up there that's better for them. I believe that this Management Board has really exceeded every measure and I am looking for conclusions from the last session of the Management Board of the Public TV Service. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22468	I thank the esteemed representative of Bahtić. Does Honorable Representative Adem Huskić want to use his representation rights? He does.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22469	I wanted to ask the question that counterpart Nanić asked. Since he's set up, thank you, there's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22470	Nice to meet you. The next is respected, the second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22471	Here, offered some questions from our colleagues, I would like to refer the question to the Minister of Security, Mr Sadović. We were all witnesses that they were members of the so-called so-called The Algerian groups came to BiH airport yesterday and, given the colourful group that accepted them there, I ask the Minister of Security: 'What are the security assessments on the stay of members of the so-called Algerian groups in BiH?"
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22472	Thank you. I'm out! Here, dear representative Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22473	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs! 43 At yesterday's meeting organised by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, the Department for Promotion and Promotion of Exports, on the subject "Priorities of Export Promotion for BiH in 2009", I was informed that the BiH Export Council, since its establishment in 2006, has held 15 sessions, whose guidelines have been adopted by the Council of Ministers in the light of conclusions. From the discussions that have arisen, my question is to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Špirić: 'What has been done so far by the Council of Ministers to implement the above-mentioned conclusions stemming from the BiH Export Council guidelines, is it, and if so, how much financial support BiH's promotion of exports is planned in Budget 2009. the year?' Third question: 'Is the Council of Ministers planning quantitatively and qualitatively strengthening the Department of Promotion and Promotion of Exports to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, as well as the Department of Economic Democracy at the MIP?' And the fourth question: "Is the Council of Ministers familiar with the fact that the current network of economic diplomacy and the lack of representation of BiH's foreign chambers abroad is holding back the promotion and improvement of exports to BiH? If so, what does he mean to do to remove this weakness, when it comes to promoting BiH's exports?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22474	I thank the esteemed representative Sokolović. Is there anyone else? I don't even have electronics. I'm closing this agenda. Moving to the third item of the agenda: Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on the Protection and Wellbeing of Animals (second reading) The proposal for this law at the 40th session was adopted in the first reading. The relevant Constitutional Commission delivered the report on 15 December. The trust has adopted 15 amendments. The esteemed representative Lazar Prodanović submitted 11 amendments, in accordance with Article 118(3), to the new aspects. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22476	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues! 44 The Constitutional Commission discussed this law, as you said yourself, in a second reading. We have carefully reviewed all the amendments of our colleagues and what has been adopted on the Constitutional Legal Commission is the result of the joint work of all of us, the consensus within this committee, and I suggest to you, so I suggest we all support the law, of course with amendments adopted by the Constitutional Commission. I myself, and I hope other members of this commission also support the amendments of colleagues from Prodanović, who are actually a technical correction of the text after the interventions of the Constitutional Commission, the adoption of amendments to the text, especially colleagues from selo Bešlagić. So, I propose the adoption of the law, which includes the report of the Constitutional Commission and the amendment, and I propose the adoption of Mr Lazar Prodanović's amendment. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22477	I would like to thank the honourable representative Džaferović. The following was reported by the second vice-president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22478	One, perhaps, suggestion to continue this session. I'd like to ask the SNSD Club to take a break. It could also be a lunch break, if MP Prodanović came and part of this club to explain the amendments for some who were not on the Constitutional Commission to get their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22479	At the request of the SNSD Club, I give half an hour and on behalf of the College for another half hour to finish your lunch and don't ask for lunch after that. So we continue at 14.15. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please take your seats. We keep working. Who further appears for the debate on the 3rd point of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on the Protection and Well-being of Animals (second reading)? Dear Representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22481	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, respected ministers,... after the passing of these amendments yesterday to the Animal Wellbeing Act, which was most recently accepted by the motionor, therefore distinguished counterpart selo Bešlagić and my 45 amendments, we now have in a certain sense the need to align the text of the law with what some of these members have adopted, so that we have a new 11 now. That is, therefore, the only reason that... based on Article 118, we have a new 11 amendments. I, if you agree, would not explain each of these amendments, MPs have them in front of them. There is a representative of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Veterinary Agency, who can potentially state whether they are acceptable, to say that together with me and Mr Bešlagić, these were supposed to be joint amendments and with the promoter agreed, so, as far as we're concerned, there are no problems. I will also say on behalf of our club that we will accept these amendments. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22482	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of Prodanović. The word has a respected representative, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22483	I propose that the amendments of Mr. Prodanović – which should actually be amendments to the Constitutional Commission, I support them – be accepted in the package as a logical correction of the text of the law, after the end of the procedure in the Constitutional Legal Commission. And of course we'll vote for it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22484	I would like to thank Reverend Džaferović for this intervention. Are there any reports? There isn't. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms (second reading) At the 35th session of the draft law at this point was adopted in the first reading, with the conclusion that the Constitutional Commission held a public debate. At its 54th session, held on 30.10, the Commission adopted a decision to hold a public debate. We received a report from the Commission on 15 December 2008. The commission adopted 13 amendments to the bill. At the plenary stage, distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić defends two amendments. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22486	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22487	Come on, just make up your mind a little faster. Here, though I've concluded, I'll give you my word. The chairman of the Constitutional Commission, distinguished representative Šefik Džaverović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22488	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we should say a few sentences about this law. I apologize for having hesitated, expecting someone else to answer the word, and since I saw no one answering, that you would conclude the debate, then I decided to say a few sentences. We had in the Commission quite a number of amendments to this law and the Commission had one, how can I say, one constructive proposal together with the promoters and we managed to make one text containing adopted numerous amendments. There is one thing that has been disputed with us in the Commission, about which we were unable to reach agreement and about this disputed matter did not enter into an analysis of an amendment by Mr. Jovičić, because this amendment includes one thing again that we disagree on. I think there is no agreement here either in Parliament on this, and I would ask that there be agreement in Parliament on this, and the second part of the amendment, if it had entered into that debate, would have been acceptable. It is about that provision of the law that speaks of the GMO Council where the law has prescribed that this council makes up 14 people and that the law said,'six from one, six from another entity and two from the Brcko District of BiH'. I have tabled an amendment asking that this matter be deleted, as the existing member in the law also speaks of the even representation of all the peoples living in BiH. And I think that's enough. And that amendment was adopted on the Constitutional Commission and it is not an integral part of this text. So that's how it is. We need everyone here to know everything. That's what I was talking about at the public hearing. I use the opportunity to tell all legislators, when they talk about this entity representation, to then take care of the constitutional situation that regulates these issues. Entities cannot be equally and personally represented in BiH institutions for one simple reason that neither this parliament nor the Presidency, nor the Council of Ministers, nor the Constitutional Court. We have three constituent peoples in BiH, citizens and others, right, and we need to take care of it. If we get into this thing, which I think is unconstitutional, then I'm afraid we won't slowly change the picture when it comes to representation. This thing remained controversial between us on the Constitutional Commission, and here I call, therefore, everything, I have left with my amendment that the law continues to hold the equal representation of all the peoples in BiH. So that's not a problem for me, that shouldn't be a problem for anyone. BiH is a multiethnic country. And when it comes to entity participation, in this parliament one-third is from the RS, two-thirds are 47 from the Federation. That is the case in all other institutions, and do not let these balances, on which we are very sensitive, disturb and that must be taken into account when making every law in BiH. That's it, thank you. Of course, if there is a willingness to respect this thing, I, for my part, express my willingness to accept that other part of the amendment by my fellow Jovičić – perhaps, at some additional commission stage, and most of its amendments have been accepted – and that we finally have this important law, because the assessment that this law is necessary for all of us in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22489	Thank you. The following is announced by the distinguished representative Ekrem Ajanović, and let the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22490	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22491	You haven't been reported. So it's a mistake. The next is the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić, and let the distinguished representative Lazar Prodavnović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22492	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! So, when I put amendments to the proposed law and first I want to point out that I am glad - I will make it up to you this time of 10 seconds - for hearing this from Mr. Džaferović calling on the Constitution. I've been doing it since the beginning in this House. And if that's the case, then this law wouldn't be in the process at all. And many other laws. A little bit of context I have to make a creamworth. The Council of Ministers, including this parliament, would not be too ambitious in predicting how much we, during the term of office, or half a term or year, will pass the law. Well, then there wouldn't be an insult from NGOs and the Centre of Civil Initiatives, sometimes for the reason that we've fulfilled that 27%, somewhere 6.9%, I don't know that percentage anymore. If the Constitution were respected, many laws would never, I repeat, be found in the procedure because it is about the transfer of jurisdiction. And I've said a hundred times that the Constitution is neither the Holy Scriptures nor the Biblija nor the Kuran that we will not change it, but it is now. If so, let's respect him and let's all eliminate the legal projects that come from everyone, including me, and from the Council of Ministers, and from anyone who violates the constitutional position of this country. And, if that's the entity's jurisdiction, then every proposer, so let the Council of Ministers, as of today, give up the bill of such laws, because they are the first to break the Constitution. So it's creamworth. And I support what Mr. Džaferović said. Eh, when it comes to the passing of this law, this controversial member of 55, as Mr. Džaferović calls him, I do not dispute that he is controversial for Mr. Džaferović. But the intensity was this: that in the Federation area, or at the level of the Federation entity, there are not two agriculture ministries in charge of this, although there are several ministries that are in 48 responsibilities, and the Ministry of Health and, I don't know, other agencies. So that parity six plus six plus two, this Brcko District, that's about what it looked like. Maybe he's in violation of what I've been doing since the 2nd session now, and I'm trying to respect the consistency of the people at the level of all institutions. And then I'd go to college if I was looking for it all the time. The 42nd session was, therefore, the 40th session and no one respected any of the laws, not in any ministry, or in any of their associates, or in those places as assistants belonging to a nation. So, on constitutionality, because the main thing of this article is 55th, although the last sentence of that article states that national representation, the equality of the people, will be respected. Now, since this is the only law we've passed, and indeed, here I am, fighting that word expert, but I'm going to say what it says. It is predicted that this advisory body is made by doctors of science. I'm going to say today that 98% of people have no idea what this is. I was among those 105, but since I entered this procedure, then I spent days stripping the Internet and looking for many symposiums, conferences, experts, to see what they say first about this law. And if I were to decide, and I don't decide anything, then this law would never be passed. But here is what we need to meet some of the criteria Europe is looking for. So, firstly, genetically modified food is, in order to best understand, a hybrid galophac. That translated into folk language means that in two days, tomatoes turn red and we eat it. And we're the country right now that can produce and produce healthy food. The only problem with us is that we don't produce anything, and we have resources. So, the replacement of thesis again, but between the lines, it can be read about what it's about. But when this agency has agreed that they accept it, because they will consult with experts, scientific workers, and will then propose to the Council of Ministers to appoint, to start, and then to appoint members to this advisory body. But I'm saying, since a lot of people don't know what this is, then I'm going to call on one study of an honorable gentleman and I won't mind at all, and I'm even proud that he's in Croatian. I understand perfectly. So, in mid-May, I understand what may and July is, but fortunately this expert has avoided a month's pull, but here every month it's supposed to be called a pull. Every thing he pulls, something he does, he does things, so we're going to try to poison our people with this law, and thank Bog, a little bit of interethnic, national hatred, poisoned with everything and everything, and this is going to come as cake cream. So farmers across the EU organize spontaneous zones without this law or GMOs and pressure their politicians to bow their heads to WTO requirements. Research and opinions have shown that when asked about this law, European citizens express a strong negative attitude towards GMOs. And then there goes the genealogy, who transferred this to us from America, and then the result of the fear of bird flu, because it was this GMO that caused that bird flu, and then it infected the chickens and the rest of the poultry, and then it went from these Asian states to European governments, including, unfortunately, Croatia, and made them keep their farmers and chickens in cages and small producers bankrupt. Now, the problem with us is we don't have any cages or chickens. I don't have much time to assess this whole situation, so it would be more direct than usual for GMOs to go to the Pentagon, because this is what the Pentagon invented, not some experts and special cabinet experts. And they were going to play, as it stands here, Bog, but they didn't make it. And that story of arrogance and greed for power has been transferred to Europe and here it has reached us. 49 So in the 1970s, the official policy of the United States is the systematic killing of populations around the world, especially in the resources of rich countries and in development and wants to end up on us. It started while Hendi Kisindžer was still foreign minister. Well, then for national security in Nikson's government and that's how it all started and, as I see it, this will end up in the chairman of this house, Mr. Lozančić. That's a nice combination. You're going into history with this crew who came up with this whole thing. But let's go back and get serious. This law is very important. Stop poisoning food with these illegal imports of various GMOs. And that's why it's a good thing this agency prepared it. I don't really see anything controversial when I've been accepted by the nine amendments seven, so if these two don't come in, so if they show the practice that this agency that's taken it all wrong, so that it's wrong for the Council of Ministers, and we as a parliament, here, immediately at the next session, I am submitting new amendments to amend and supplementing this law. But let's give you a chance, 'cause I talked to you at least. I know how to pass, you would convince me that this is good, I know it's not, so I assure you it's not good, but here's the deal. So, what do I mean? If we want to, and here I want this law to finally pass, at least we have legal frameworks to prevent what we can prevent from going in and out of everything, and that's the goal of this law. That's why I don't think these amendments are controversial. I support Mr. Džaferović in that variant because of that six-six, it's a little awkward. But when you take that fight, then half a dozen here, half there, so it's not what I meant to say in the finals, but it wouldn't work. So let's get this law passed! Mr. Džaferović, perhaps, I say, is not responsible for what you said one third but do not have two agriculture ministries in the Federation. I couldn't go there, believe I'd do it, now the Hrvat will back me up that I'm supporting them for the third entity, so they'll have their own ministry. Let me get this straight - let's go, people, bring this law! Accept two of these amendments. They are not controversial, because there is the main line there – that they will make representatives of all peoples, constitutive and others. I suppose the Federation might be quite academic Ljubomir Berberović, because it seems to me, he knows, so here I guess, here it is, not Bošnjak, and from the Federation. And I guess someone from the RS, I just need to see what kind of experts they are, that they might be Bošnjak. But it's important to understand this matter. You see how I got into this story and got over it. And if you'd give me more time not to overstep, I could be giving a science lecture here. So please, I know, no more, you're bored. So, I ask you, let's adopt this law, that this Centre of Civil Initiatives tonight says -- here, they passed a law that was planned and add 10 more of those that we will adopt later, not 7% as you say. So, that's what I'd call this parliament to adopt today and don't challenge people, so you're going to say, these are from the RS against. Look, we're not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22493	Thank you. Replica, First Vice-President, Mr. Beriz Belkić. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22494	Look, Mr. Jovičić, I've been closely following your exposure and telling you the right to know that I'm very confused. So in the first phase, I got the impression that this is about some conspiracy theory of some kind of force towards this state, and I realized that you're against law-making, that this is a bribery, etc. And then no, it's not, and then in phase two, I realized that you're turning things around and that you're to protect yourself. I realized that this law is really being passed in order to protect health, etc. and trying to get things settled in this country and keep them in control as much as possible. The way these amendments are explained and the debate that we are having at this moment reminds me of how we are discussing the establishment of a Council of People, not the adoption of a law that solves very important and professional matters in this country. So, really, I would ask all the other debaters, this is not the council of the people, nor is this where we need this national equality in such a way to weigh, etc., here is the profession. And I think Mr. Džaferović is right, here's the waist. As far as I'm concerned, let them all be Srbin, if they're professional. I, indeed, and if we continue like this, then these people of ours will surely suffer evenly from this sort of thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22495	Replica reply, distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22496	It's hard for me to replicate Mr. Belkić, firstly, which I really respect. I mean, I started reading, people, there's 15 pages here, these are the ones that started with that initiative and the poisoning started. But even now later, I haven't changed, but I'm in favor of passing the law so that we don't continue what they started. So, let's not poison ourselves, that's the point. And as for national equality, I always advocate. It was not only Mr. Džaferović's idea, but it was a national parity not to be six from the RS, six from the Federation, but to be one-third from the RS and two-thirds from the Federation. So it's not about national representation, it's about percentages belonging to one entity or another. That is what it is, Mr Belkić, and so Mr Džaferović said on the Commission, which I welcome here today. But I repeat, the goal is to pass this law. I'm not giving up these two amendments, because I think they're key and, most importantly, I've got a satisfaction and an opinion from experts, here's the president of the Agency and his associates who haven't had a single word of comment on it. So they, in doing so, gave support and of course I agreed to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22497	The next is the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22498	The Honorable Chairman! Dear colleague Jovičić said a lot of things and completely changed my approach to this. I'll just say a little bit: it's too much chamour, in simple language, and I must now, with full respect for the enormous knowledge that he has listed here, say the next proposal. We're going to have a problem with this adoption of the law. We have an obligation, a commitment from the action plan, an obligation from the SAA to adopt this law 51. This law gives rise to 55, close to 60 regulations that need to be passed. I think here, I'm going to say this after the amendment has been made, we're going to have to apply a similar model that we had for radiation and nuclear security in order to adopt the law as soon as possible. It's possible and it won't be, but I think that's how it's supposed to be done. And one more thing please. Please, therefore, the active agencies have participated here, please the Council of Ministers, ministers must be more involved in law-making. They must be the most active mediators between commissions and this, otherwise we're going into a catastrophic situation to change the essence of the law, to do things. Ministers must work on their laws. If we don't do this, we'll come into a catastrophic situation, with a lot of respect here agency, we'll be in a very difficult situation that we'll be struggling with about it, so after a year or two bring something we needed two or three years ago. This law is necessary for BiH, there is no need to interpret something in this law. Let's see, we have a lot of literature, we don't need to interpret something that we don't need, which we're looking for, which is something like this, that we're a country that doesn't need. It's a groundless story, here's a crucial story. In BiH, genetically modified food is present, whether for animals or for humans, we need to have the capacity to identify, make the declaration abundant and know clearly what is coming. Without this law, we can't do it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22499	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22500	Well, I didn't mean to say this, but now I've got to go after these two discussions, I have to say. We didn't part on the Constitutional Commission yesterday about whether it was something consistent with science or not. Well, even today, what Slavko was saying, it's actually a purely political issue, not a scientific one, not a scientific one. And there's actually thesis replacements. We have come up with one model to accept the amendment with certain amendments, Slavko yesterday on the Constitutional Commission, where only instead of writing six from RS, six from the Federation, two from the Brcko District, we should have decided that it would be in line with the usual relations in the formation of certain institutions in BiH. And in fact, that sentence, that's where Slavko didn't accept it. And now he's asking people who are experts to plead that they say he should be six from the RS, six from the Federation and two from the Brcko District. They can't say that, it's not their job, nor can they discuss it. That is what MPs who are in this assembly are discussing and have come up with a certain compromise solution. Even by adopting the law as a whole on the Constitutional Legal Commission, the point is: since the Commission adopted amandman I. by Mr Džaferović, if an amendment were to be adopted as a whole by Mr Slavko, then the law would actually seem ridiculous, it would not have continuity in... in certain things. This must be taken into account when passing laws of any kind, including this law. And therefore, the law can be passed with a certain design of this amendment by Mr. Jovičić, and I think that's the way to make it. Because let me tell you that a man can't vote for that part of the law. I, first of all, will say that I will not vote for that part of the law, because it is actually the introduction of practice that has been carried out on the pressure of OHR in the adoption of the Drug Act. Because I've invested the amendments that were supposed to treat the very constitutional solution that has to be: so much from the Federation, so much from the RS and so much from the Brcko District. At their pressure is even the Constitutional Commission... 52
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22501	Time! Replication is three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22502	Please accept that amendment to pressure, and there has been another vote, and that amendment has been rejected. So we can't always get into a situation where we do something that's unconstitutional. Only to pass a law that will be in accordance with the Constitution, and according to the Constitution is the ratio of people who will be in it from all these units, meaning from the RS entity, from the BiH Federation and Brcko District entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22503	Thank you. The following has been reported by the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22504	Thank you, Chairman. Let me divide this discussion into two parts. One part is to remind this home that when we discussed this law in the first reading that I expressed my concern that in BiH, in addition to having a GMO that is illegal, there will be uncontrolled use of GMOs. I asked that the law be drawn up in a way that we have an agency that will only have a laboratory for all of BiH and deal exclusively with the eradication of illegal GMOs in BiH and that experiments for the scientific purposes of GMOs can be used in BiH. The law is based on the principle that 11 health ministries in the Federation alone and one in the RS give permission to deliberately enter into the environment of GMOs or as food or food for animals and separate others. What did we get in this law? We have received that practically everyone can allow GMOs to enter any area of BiH, not counting that the use of GMOs is not only limited to one area, but that seeds and germs and others can be spread through wind and any other way throughout BiH. We have come up with an increase in the risk of coming out of the GMO lab in fields, and then spreading along the whole of BiH. This was my main observation to the concept of this law, and I accept that in a public debate, the second concept we thought BiH could also work under this condition. I believe that this is an increased risk, and that BiH with 55% of the land that is ready for agriculture should not take such a risk in BiH. On the other hand, there are two amendments that we are talking about today, where is the issue: is the Council a decision-making body or is it an advisory body? If we all accept that the Council is an advisory body, where will we find ten doctors of science who deal with this problem in the first place? I don't mention that it's listed here that it can be ten doctors of science and medicine, or 14 here's where we count now. Where are we gonna find these people? It's an advisory body, it's not a body that... determines according to a request whether someone will get a permit or not to get a permit. Why are we making a problem if it's just an advisory body? Here is the director of the Agency who needs to explain to us whether it's an advisory body or whether it's the body that's now making the final decision who's going to... get that request for use or not? And secondly, please tell us here whether the risk of this law in BiH has been increased by the prevalence of a greater GMO and the potential consequences that can arise? And which we don't know yet, which can arise, because we ourselves said that there are over 200 medical works that have found that such use of 53 GMOs has caused consequences for the health of the population or animals. Therefore, I ask you to answer these two questions so that you may know that we are determined under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22505	I'll give you my word, first to the MPs, and we'll give you my word to answer all the questions that will eventually be asked, and then we'll give the MPs a word afterwards. Here is the replica, the esteemed representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22506	Well, about this composition, actually 14, is six plus six plus two, Mr. Živković asking himself, "Where are we going to find these people?" Well, since the Federation lives twice as many people as in RS, then it's easier to find if we take eight from here and four from the RS, right? But well, this is, say, the answer... In the Federation live two peoples, mostly Croatian and Muslim, mostly live here. And it's not the turn, it's not the turn to ask the RS to be, where most Serbian representatives will come from, just like these two peoples. We also have a decision on the constitutionality of the people, and I think that's where things should relax. 2:1 as in everything else. In other words, I agree with what Mr. Živković said. I think there's a lot of room for GMOs here. Because when you look at how it's prescribed, it's like nuclear waste, like it's biological toxins, what it's like, they're protecting the environment. So you're going to let our stomachs get into our organisms, but they're going to pay 200,000 marks for a legal face that lets it get into the environment. And he can enter our organism and our children, but he can't enter the environment. However, this law is a normal thing, one progress, because 90% of it will be covered. At this hour, the total mess of the government and who knows what's going on in BiH right now is being scattered and what the consequences of it are going to be. I hope, in fact, I am convinced that Europe will give up GMOs and America first, and then we will follow that too, one day have a law banning GMOs. Until then, this law is progressing, and we will support it. In Article 64. The penalty, under the 4th, says: 'For the violations of the position (1) of this member will be punished by a natural person with a fine of 5 thousand KM to 10 thousand KM. And Article 1 is this: 'If, without permission or contrary to established conditions, it introduces the environment of GMOs', then you ate half the tomatoes on this trip and you threw the other half onto the ground and you introduced GMOs, the seeds of that tomatoes onto the ground. Well, you threw half the tomatoes, half the pickle, half the pepper you didn't get on the field trip, and you can be punished with 5 grand to 10,000 marks. I pray, who is authorized to comment: Am I right to throw away that half of the pickles so that I can answer and be punished for 20,000 marks for it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22507	Replica, distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22508	Well, you see, first of all, I don't think that a little bit can stand the finding that two people live in one entity, so because two people live there, then they should have twice as many members of the commission, because every entity has three peoples. So, no one said that any entity would be just representatives of one or only of the two nations, but would be distinguished experts, prominent experts from the 54 areas and from that entity. Which people will be distinguished experts, which is now a very different question, and it doesn't make sense, given how many experts we have in this area. Oh, Bog, let's get 'em together, some serious experts and this. Second,... the second replica refers to the finding that this division six plus six, neither do I, 20 Brcko District – is contrary to the principle of expertise or the principle of expertise of experts in this council. And namely, if we read the law and the justification for law-making, then we'll see that the Council of Ministers formed an expert inter-resor group that had among other important domestic experts in this area and that expert group proposed six plus six plus two. So experts have proposed in law six plus six plus two. It's not like the experts didn't know... the area where the experts were in. It seems to me, and this is what I'm going to end up with – then I'm going to cancel my application for the discussion, which means I had – we all want to pass the law here, and we all work not to pass the law. So it would be good to find a solution to Mr. Jovičić's amendment to get to the law. I have proposed on the Constitutional Commission a formula that has not been accepted, which is to define, taking into account the equal representation of peoples and entities, which would mean that we don't want some things going on here that we don't want to happen. Unfortunately, it has not been supported so that if we end the discussion today in a simple way, explaining each of our positions, then we will remain on the principle that we all want the law, but we will all vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22509	Dear Representative Bećirović, did he ask for a replica or debate, application?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22510	...guilty quote, correction of false. First, the Federation does not have two peoples, and secondly, those two mentioned by Mr. Izetbegović, one is not called what Mr. Izetbegović said.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22511	Dear Representative Adem Huskić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22512	Thank you. I'd say we should take it to the law, because we really need it. And if we're talking about what we're talking about, and we're actually talking about one look at the first time, is it a completely peripheral thing that's not the subject of this law, it's not a fundamental thing in the law, we're caught up in what's best to talk about. I think this amendment, which was adopted on the Constitutional Legal Commission, proposed by counterpart Džaferović, is quite correct. And I'd be ready, for example. to support what counterpart Novaković said, means to formulate it in a way that both peoples and entities are equally represented. But mostly what I was going to say is this: since there were experts involved here, as someone has already said, from both entities... and these experts wrote that six plus six plus two should be contained here, it smells a little bit like something that has already been agreed on and that the parent numbers here have not yet been published in the explanation. And that's why I wouldn't, here, be willing to accept a formula like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22513	Replica, esteemed representative Bakir Izetbegović, second. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22514	I said most of the Bosniak and Croatian people live in the Federation, that's right. And I am sure that the experts we need here from these two peoples – you will not find them in RS. You'll find them right in the Federation. I'm also sure that twice as many experts around this profession live in the Federation as in RS, and that's what people should respect. Otherwise we'll get six Srbin and six Bošnjak and Hrvat and that's not the order. Let's be realistic, because I'm sorry, I'm sorry we have to count ourselves like that, and that's your relationship with those numbers, and that's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22515	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22516	I don't think there's any need to talk here in a way that has twice as many experts in one entity as in another entity. I think it's unsuitable first, the second is obvious, and the third is the question of the quality of such experts or those who gave them diplomas.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22517	Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22518	I don't know if it's a replica, but we're a little bit into a story that we're going to have a really hard time divulging, but here's a reason. I was taught by Genetics in college by a man who was born in Banja Luka and worked for a long time in Banja Luka, until '91. He's been working at Tuzla Medical School. If we can figure out where we're going to sort it out, and Bošnjak is, then we can work out where and how much of the entity it's going to come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22519	Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22520	You see, like this, this thing on the Constitutional Commission is solved. And then when you want to make a problem about something, then, of course, you problem one of these things, and then we're able to run a bad debate. So there is no here, so this is now a situation, I simply cannot allow something to go beyond constitutional principles, because one practice for the future is opening up. Guys, you have to understand what this is about. Please, therefore, there is a text here of this law in which there is a report of the Constitutional Commission, it is acceptable to me. It is obvious that it is not acceptable for Mr. Jovičić and the club he belongs to and some other clubs here and there is a danger if these amendments are rejected that the law does not pass. We want to have this law. I ask you, either before or after the vote on amendments, to do what Mr. Prodanović said. Let's go back to the Commission, considering and 56 of what Mr. Novaković was talking about, and try to find a solution that will be in line with the Constitution and that we won't be having some big debate and discussion here, otherwise we'll lose the law. And to end the debate now, because this doesn't lead us to anything good. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22521	Slavko Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22522	Dear Chairman, it was not my intention to counter Mr. Džaferović's amendments, I didn't even know he had submitted the amendments. But now I think of something. I am destined for the complexity of these laws, so the Law of Cancer and Wine - a year of my amendments! The Agriculture and Rural Development Act, year and two months – again, my amendments! There's something I don't feel like getting around these amendments, but, well, I'm happy that only my laws have passed with the amendments, so hopefully this one will pass. So I'm willing to accept going back to the Commission so we can try to agree and really see about these people who are going to do, I repeat, an advisory body that won't have decisions, will have our agency that will only respect their opinion, because they will be invited to bring all this into order, and now it's a mess. Now we know nothing about what's happening to us and who's importing and what's importing and what's food. So, I'm in favour of passing this law, but I'm not, who didn't understand me, I'm not the way we're stuck here, that's what I thought. But I'm here to make sure we don't poison ourselves. And here, I'm going to accept this variant to try to bring this thing together and find a common solution all in order to get the law to fix this area. And of course I'm gonna take that mortgage off, and I'm not gonna take it off while I'm in Parliament that we're not a remethyling factor and we're contesting everything. We don't argue, people, this doesn't know the nation, the party, the position, the opposition, knows the man to stay alive and healthy, to eat healthy food.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22523	Thank you. The following has been announced for the debate by distinguished representative Halid Genjac, and let the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22524	Thank you. I think there's really a proposal that we've discussed on the Constitutional Legal Commission in advance to try to make another effort, in fact, to try to save this law that is absolutely necessary. In addition to the arguments mentioned above, I think there is more work to be done for both the Constitutional Commission and the law-makers who have made great efforts. They proposed a law that was needed with a very specific, professional, good solution, some of the solutions that we had fixed on the Constitutional Commission. The intentional introduction of GMOs into the environment has been excluded and all members who treat this issue have been excluded. The introduction of reproductive material into the environment is excluded. Therefore, there is no introduction of reproductive GMO material into the environment and that is what has already been spoken and solved with certain caution. But that is, those solutions have withdrawn some further need for legal procedures that the proposer of these amendments did not have in mind and, when the Constitutional Commission adopted them, the law came into some part into non-consistency. Namely, since the intentional introduction of GMOs into the environment has been excluded, the criminal provisions remain intact and we on the Constitutional Legal Commission, since we have not had any amendments, have not treated 57 criminal provisions, so it remains that it will be punished in this way and thus the introduction of GMOs into protected areas,... environmental networks, etc. Therefore, according to the original concept of the law, criminal provisions are listed as prohibiting GMOs only in certain areas and punishable. By introducing our changes and by adopting amendments to the law, it is not forbidden to bring GMOs only there, but it is forbidden to bring them into the environment at all. This is just one example that says that in a series of members a careful intervention should be carried out in order for the law to be consistent entirely inside, with its solutions and with the amendments adopted. In doing so, of course, it would be good for all those who worked on the law to cooperate with the Constitutional Commission, because they did, I mean, a good job. And in trying to find the most meaningful and rational solution to the composition of this council that really does not have a decisive role, it is advisory and I think that it can be relaxed if chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22525	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22526	Here's since the director's gonna pick up afterwards, and my colleague Genjac mentioned something that I initially said was a risk, I'd like to invite the director to explain it again to us all here together. As for the literal reading of article 3 below 2.b. where it is said: 'For the implementation of this law in the case of GMOs', meaning GMOs, 'or products containing or consisting of or originating from GMOs,' and sub b. "intentionally enters the environment." _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Dropped.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22528	Thank you. The next is a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22529	Thank you, Chairman. I will try to be brief, but here is my colleague Živković earlier with an intervention on composition, i.e. titles, scientific references to this advice, i.e. the bodies provided for in Articles 55 and 56 and 57 in terms of his competence, mostly, support, monitoring and advisory services. I thought earlier that he had really read the amendments with attention, but it seems that he was focusing on these two additional amendments of ten amendments as originally submitted by his colleague Jovičić, how notified I was, and of which eight were accepted. And here's something I've been thinking about: of the ten amendments if about eight to reach a consensus, so, all of these in Parliament in the Commission, I really don't see any reason for someone to condition their position in the adoption of a law with two amendments around which there is no consensus, I'm saying this in general. 58 And secondly, what I want to draw attention to are some of the items that are listed in the contents of your amendments repeated, which is that in your amendment to Article 3, where the competent authorities are spoken of, talk about the main authorities and these are entityal, and then I guess they are less principally competent and these are state authorities. This is the state Parliament, the state institution, etc., so let's just focus on that a little bit. I'll just remind you of the formulations of Article 3 in this law. In the position (2) under d) which one of the key tasks is located exactly where it is located, which is the inspection supervision for which the entity inspection services are responsible. So, what needs to be the main one, is, in this main jurisdiction file, I now have to use your terminology, and it is just like that and conceived. That's why I don't see places like this for the amendment to Article 3. When it comes to the amendment to Article 55, part of my colleague Živković's argument earlier mentioned: of 14 members that we have prominent scientific workers, Doctors of science from these areas, so I let myself imagine how many doctors we have in BiH who would work on this here; I'm not sure we have at all 14 doctors from this area at universities in BiH. I'm sorry to say this because I might know a little more about the general state of personnel at university, so I don't think amandman II. stands, or at least in the part where it would be wonderful, but I don't think it should be conditioned, is it? If we get a doctor's science, that's better, but certainly unfounded. However, I will now, on behalf of my colleague, Jerka Ivanković, who is not here, ask you and appeal that we no longer, by any chance, extend the adoption of this law to one single day. We're the country that signed it, I'm going to do a little bit more from that economic aspect, sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In the part of the obligations arising from this Agreement are also obligations relating to sanitary and phytosanitary protection measures and to a good part of the measures relating to the regulation of genetically modified organisms and trade in GMO products within a country, and in transport, or in communication with the internal market, or EU Member States. Secondly, I would like to remind you that we are a country that claims to soon become a member of the World Trade Organisation. One of the commitments that arises for the countries, and we, in full regulation of foreign trade in all agreements and arrangements, have taken over the WTO obligations, namely, we are obliged to respect them in international trade, among other things, a part of these obligations arises, the part that arises for BiH also relates to part of the obligations governed by this law. If we're going to talk about our abilities and our ability to produce healthy food, or to pretend that we export any of the food tomorrow, even to countries of the region in an environment that are not yet members of the World Trade Organisation, but together we're in a CEFTA arrangement that operates according to WTO rules, we need to have this law yesterday, not today. In that sense, I ask you, he may be with some shortcomings and shortcomings that may be corrected in walking when institutions are established and this law begins to apply and we can react quickly to change him, possibly, in some of his provisions. But the worst thing we can do is not make a statement about this law today, that is, not to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22530	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Velimir Jukić. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22531	Oh, here, I'll do it very briefly. I had three amendments, two of which were adopted, and one of them wasn't. And after 13 amendments adopted, there have been significant changes in the law. And hence and a little misunderstanding about this, about the composition here and the Council for GMOs, which, by the way, was, by way of a proposal for a bill, quite large and numerous, and by amendment of Mr. Jovičić, too, a number of something different by entities. I think we should think that maybe eventually and reduce the number of people that, I'm convinced, wouldn't diminish the quality of the composition of this body, would have perhaps more effective, more efficient work. And I think that from today's debates... it would be reasonable to suggest the following: perhaps to return this law to the Commission, to try henceforth to agree on these several unanimity solutions and then to come back here to Parliament with, in my opinion, a much greater chance of getting the law. Because I'm afraid that today from this, as I've heard and understood, there's no great chance that the law will pass, and it would be a shame if the law doesn't pass, because it seems to me that there's very little that we still get the law. In our first reading debate, we were, or at least most of us, thinking about how we imagine BiH as a country where every type of import, use of GMOs should be banned, etc., so that after a detailed study of the text of this law, we can see that this is not the case. That the law foresees, but controlled, however, the entry of GMOs etc. And I liked Mr. Živković's thinking, and it's very close to his thinking. However, it is now too late to talk about it, this law is already at a stage when we need to make a statement about it, and I think the best solution is to return the law to the competent commission again to try to agree on these several unanimity solutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22532	Thank you. Before I give my word to the director of the BiH Food Safety Agency, Master Sead Mačkić, I would like to ask you MPs to take care of business opportunities when you make proposals. There is no business opportunity to return this law to the Commission. There is no business opportunity for us to discuss this issue in any way in the next session, but there is a business possibility and here is our agreement in the College that after the address of the Director we do not conclude the debate on this agenda point. And while discussions on other points of the agenda continue that those who have different proposals to try to agree with, in accordance with Rules of Procedure of Article 118(3); means, when there are different proposals, the College approves the possibility of discussing modified amendments. And try to reach agreement on the modified amendments while the debate is under way. So, during today's day, we put these modified amendments on the stand when there's a time for a plea and we try to come up with a bill. This is what I was obliged to remind you of the rules of the Rules of Procedure and to try to use today to come up with these modified proposals. Dear Representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22533	Mr. Chairman, I understand, of course, what you're talking about and it's a business trip. I am afraid, beware, Doctor Genjac said one thing: 'The interventions of ten amendments by Mr. Jovičić and the intervention of several amendments of the other colleagues have led to the need to make some technical harmonisation, especially... the whole area is excluded from the law.' 60 And in addition to this controversial matter, it will be necessary for the Constitutional Commission to make successive amendments or consistently act or bring the matter to an end in the law. You today have, say, a criminal provision contained here for something excluded from this law. That's why I'm asking you to do exactly as you said. But that whoever does this will be the Constitutional Commission, that today we simply don't declare ourselves to this and plead at the next session. And by next session, you'll have it, and then we know who we're in charge of. It's not going back to this committee, and it actually is, and then it's like you said. Try to do it a little flexiblely, because our goal is really to have, I have signals that people will, people will. I talked to my colleagues in the meantime. I care as much as any of us do that we have this law. We're going to sit down and maybe not discuss these things anymore today, so that together with our experts and this specialized institution we can sit down until the next session, we can have that. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22534	Thank you. Here, we will now give our word to the director of the BiH Food Safety Agency, Master Sead Mačkić. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I hope not. I'm reading from the card I got from the magistrate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22536	The respected presidency, honourable MPs, the BiH state does not have a law on genetically modified organisms and is one of the few that does not have the law. We all know that when we don't have one law, then even the executives can't carry out their actions under their jurisdiction. The aim of this law is to protect consumer health and animal health. That's his primary goal. One chapter you asked for was the chapter on the intentional introduction of genetically modified food – it's zasijavanje. I responsibly claim that BiH has so many working areas, the 55% circus, that it is not necessary at all. Whoever was involved in this bill, and if there was a doctor in this area, I'd read: doc. Dr. Vojislav Trkulja, Prof. Dr. Kasim Bajrović, Prof. Stojko Vidović from the Faculty of Medicine Banja Luka, Ivan Ostojić from the Faculty of Agriculture, etc. and representatives of the Office for Law, the Ministry of Justice and the Directorate for European Integration. They all played their part. The Directorate for European Integration said all EU directives are in line with the directives introduced here in this law in the final provisions. And I would like to answer to Mr. MP for these penalties proposed by the Office of Law, those penalties that can now be imposed here under the applicable regulations in BiH. These experts and experts appointed by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Agency have here at the Constitutional Legal Commission headed by academics Berberović said the importance of passing this law. 61 Please, the Agency is two and a half years old. The agency is facing a major challenge. A challenge called food, food safety. It is the conclusion of the Conference in Rome where the conclusion of 180 states has been reached. To answer this question 'what kind of food are we eating?', we have to make such regulations, we have regulations, laws, which are the basis of which we will also bring regulations for the work of the lab. Everyone can say there's genetically modified food. From this place where I am, I can't say that, because we don't have adequate lab results from those who can only take and control that food. That's why it's very important that we have this law, that we have sublaws, regulations for laboratory work, and that we have what's called an orderly system. We've already prepared the regulations for lab work. BiH already has two laboratories that have been trained, which can control whether it has the presence of genetically modified food or not. That's why I'm saying this is so important to what we're talking about, and that's the law on genetically modified food. The question you asked me, Mr. Vice-President, in the Food Act, a member... The closed system was operated by this expert group and it implies a system, a controlled system, a laboratory system that will be provided by all regulations requiring such work by one laboratory, which means that under no circumstances can a genetically modified organism come out of that laboratory. [[Shortly disabled microphone]] It's, we say, a closed system. Now, from my human, scientific experience, we have open systems, we don't have laws, we don't have legislation, we don't have regulations that executives, inspectorates of both entities and the government of the Brcko District can take samples and control what's called the presence of genetically modified food. The Council of Ministers adopted the Declaration Regulation. It clearly states that... on each product must say: 'This product contains genetically modified organisms in that dose'. The European Directive stipulates that it is 0.9%. The law is also laid down under the European Directive, and these are the recommendations of the World Health Organization, and here I will remind you, we are an equal member of the... Code.... World Health Organizations and the World Food Organization and we follow all the recommendations of the World Health Organization because they are food regulations. The drafting of regulations already prepared at the Agency, which will be addressed to the Council of Ministers this month, is about 30 regulations, over 60 professors from different areas were hired. How do we do that? We send a memo to all the deans, to all the scientific institutions, and then they send us biographies and ambushed our body at the Agency, takes biographies and those teachers who have spent their whole lives dealing with it – if someone teaches milk, honey, certainly has something – that he can give his professional opinion on it. And that four or five experts give an opinion on food. So nothing comes up that ad hoc because it's about food and it's about people, people's health. And this is the best way to protect consumer health and I am responsible for saying it from this place. I'd like to thank you, and if any of the questions were to be asked, and I'll just add that there are over 100 questions in the Agency addressed by our producers asking if we're eating genetically modified food. You can imagine the moment we're in and what a challenge that is. Also, it can't be seen separately when it comes to food, we'll have lunch here today, and maybe we'll have dinner in another country. You know, the second question is whether we control it or not. And this is the best way. This is what I think, I am speaking professionally now, certainly that you as a legislator will decide or not, but now I am speaking both as a scientist and as the most responsible person in 62 BiH and as a man – we must give an answer to our consumers because it is their constitutional right to know what they eat and this is the best way, and other regulations that I have already talked about, means that they will regulate certain areas in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22537	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22538	I had to go out and type up the business question I had asked before, so I didn't hear the first part, Mr. Mačkić's answers. So if we don't eat half a pickle or half a tomato on a field trip, throw it on the grass out there, did we do a crime, punishable with about 10-20 thousand marks? Did we get this into the environment of tomato seeds genetically modified?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22539	... is the rule of the Office of Law and the Ministry of Justice which are now as they are and they are prescribed in the law. We need to know first whether the tomatoes are genetically modified or not. To know...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22540	If it's modified, I throw it on a field trip in the grass, did I commit a violation?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22541	Yes You, we must know!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22542	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22543	Please, we need to know that such tomatoes today cannot be under the current regulations in BiH. No Niko has ever asked to place genetically modified food on the BiH market, never in two and a half years' time. And it must be addressed to the Food Safety Agency. So I'm saying we never got a request.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22544	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22545	The exact dose, as in the EU – 0.9%, is indicated. 63 [[Common discussion]] Yeah. That's right. We can't throw.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22547	And we have to, here, I'll try to answer to an esteemed representative. So, you've appointed the Director of the Food Safety Agency, and I have to say that I don't know what he's a magistrate or a doctor or I don't know what fields of science is, but if he's not a man this doctor or a magistrate of law, he could hardly answer your question, he's probably a doctor, a master of natural science, as soon as he's in this area, is he? So you're asking the question: are you going to be responsible for something you'd do if you happen to come into possession and be the victim of genetically modified food, is it? And the victim, you're consummating her, and the man has been explaining all along that this law is precisely due to the fact that it would prevent you from owning such food in BiH at all. So the essence of this law is to prevent any citizen of this country - so I understood, if I understood correctly - to be the victim of genetically modified food. Then there's no way she can consume it, so there's no way she can throw away that food.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22548	Please, the answer is that each product must be marked if it contains genetically modified food.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22549	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22550	It depends on the law, the law, and those prescribed doses, that's what I'm talking about. ________ [[(?) /Disable microphone/]] No, in particular the procedures are prescribed in the law as products of genetically modified organisms are introduced. We're talking about control here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22552	People, genetically modified food is intended for consumption. Genetically modified foods can be produced five times as much as normal food, so this is all done. Well, this isn't about experiments, it's about better use of land, etc. It's easier to feed the people. Well, it's not for labs, it's for consumption, general. And people are going to eat that mass. And then, what they don't eat 64, they have to put in a plastic bag and, I don't know, take it to destruction. And I'm telling you about the senselessness of all this. That's the way it is. This is all done so that it could be used massively, whether it's true, not for labs.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22553	No, the goal of this law is to control the food whether it contains genetically modified organisms or not. Please, that's the purpose of this law. The aim of this law is to be able to pass sublegal acts for laboratory work.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22554	And what is the objective of genetically modified food? To be mass-produced and consummated, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22555	It's not the subject of this law at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22556	And what exactly is the goal of producing genetically modified food?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22557	That's another question. I'm talking about a controlled system of genetically modified food.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22558	I thank you, Mr. Director, for your answers. To whom it's clear, clearly, what we're going to do. May I have your attention, please? So today we're not going to conclude a debate on this bill. The ongoing debate on this bill will be held at the next session or at the follow-up of this session, unless we conclude this session today. In the meantime, in the name of the College, I call upon the Constitutional Commission to continue the session or the new session when we open again, continue the debate on this bill, inform this House of what they have come to, and then we will continue the debate and, after that, I believe come to the law. Is he okay? Thank you. Moving to the fifth item of the agenda: 65 Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Development of the Information Society of Bosnia and Herzegovina The proposal for this law was adopted in the first reading, too, at the 35th session. At the 40th session, the House allowed the extension of the deadline for the submission of the bill proposal after the Commission had failed to submit the report until the deadline set by the College. We received a report from the Transport and Communications Committee on 15 December 2008. The commission adopted 12 amendments. In the plenary phase, distinguished representative Branko Dokić defends 15 amendments. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. There is. Dear Representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22560	Mr. Chairman, I will try to defend these new amendments. Of course, I won't be able to do it as inspired as my colleague Jovičić defended his amendments, but I hope you understand me. You saw, the Commission accepted 12 amendments, as you said, and did not accept 15 or several other amendments. I want to explain to you how all this happened. And right at the very beginning, to say that I find myself guilty. For what?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22561	Wait a minute, I'm asking you for a little more attention, to listen to your colleague and to...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22562	What we've already delayed to plead on this law, no matter how good my intention was, but, I say, I find myself guilty first of all because I know something from this area. Secondly, I feel guilty that I have made every effort so far this law has passed in the Assembly but I don't think my colleagues have understood me, because how else do I explain the fact that it rarely happens that when certain amendments get the support of the promoter to be shot down on the commission? From the four-year practice, while I was in the Council of Ministers, it never happened: when we accepted the amendments as a ministry, that the automatic commission did not accept those amendments. That's one thing. On the other hand, I have shown an absolutely possible degree of tolerance because the Ministry of Communications and Transport is also responsible for these 12 amendments that have been accepted modified by my amendments. I, too, accepted their modifications without a change, without any change. On the other hand, these 15 amendments that I have renewed, only one is not an amendment to how it was defined, or redefined by a commission or a group from the Ministry of Communications and Transport. I can tell you that on the Commission I felt like Sokrat on my defense, don't get me wrong, I don't compare myself to Sokrat, but in the next sense. You know that in his charge, there was, among other things, Sokrat wants to do better things than bad things. And I really wanted us to do better things from bad things, but obviously there was some prejudice among certain members of the Commission – and what does he want, which is why he wants to make the bad 66 things better?- I'm sorry. How else do you explain the fact that here, for example, Now, the newly repeated Amendment I, it gives the definitions of three concepts that are full of the law – beware, you all know well that in that point of definition, when there is, and explain the concepts that are often repeated – that is the smoothness rejected. And yet I say that full of law is those terms. And he came in, for example. One term that I wanted to throw out, but not to be too much; it says,'single database under d',' and is only mentioned once or twice. Next,... look, please, Article 3, this is now my renewed Amendment II, i.e. the fundamental amendment of the task force of the Ministry of Communications and Transport because, I repeat, what I have restored, these are theirs, my redefined ones, and they are behind them and I have accepted it to move on. Take a look at the background definitions of the current law which says: "The aim of the Agency is to develop an information society in BiH". Based on development, the goal of development is based on the development and application of information society technologies. A definition that is polite, if nothing else, which I have proposed, 'The Agency is in charge of the development and promotion of the information society in BiH', is not accepted. And this is the kind of thing you have in all the places you want. I just had to tell you this. For some reasons, again, there was no willingness in the Commission to be heard and then I didn't try very hard, and I especially now care about something to adopt this. I'll go back to Socrates now. Unlike Sokrat who got the chance to defend himself and the people listened to him in that defense and eventually voted, so I didn't even have the opportunity to defend myself, not because I was banned, but because I was challenged, but because I got the impression that the members of the Commission had come with the paper on which it was written which should be rejected, what should be accepted and that any defence was in vain. I'm kazaću to tell you, that's why I'm saying I'm guilty of even knowing something, the amendment in which I suggested, it's the current Amendment IX, that instead of 'information society technology', the term that doesn't essentially exist, is used by 'information communication technology'. So this is also denied. Do I need to tell you anything else about this? So, I'm not going to convince you about these newly submitted amendments. I just want to draw attention to the following: that these amendments are accepted by the Ministry of Communications and Transport, from their working group, that I have taken them over again, and that this is one minimum that really improves; be careful, these amendments are composed of three parts, I have to explain to you, one part that significantly improves the text of the whole law; the other part that is accepted, which refers to a completely different position of the Information Society Council, the selection of members, then it was in the original text of two deputy directors, one part that is accepted; the third part without which the law will not get one good majority or, I would say, the required majority to pass, without these amendments, these are the provisions of Article 8 where it is spoken of competences relating to education, science, culture and health. So here's one of these 15 amendments of mys if Parliament is to identify them, it feels that it's not good to have a more precise, more beautiful, more adequate text that doesn't bring confusion, let them reject it, and I won't refuse the law as far as I'm concerned, now I'm talking about me, but if there's five or six of those competencies left there, which I mentioned, I won't suggest to anyone, nor can I support such a variant of the law. I need more. When I was talking about absurdities, which is why some amendments aren't accepted, watch out, one amendment says it's being kicked out of jurisdiction, says,'support', I'll read it so it doesn't come to mind, 'coordination of the work of a forum for the development of an electronic administration', and I suggested that this should be deleted for the simple reason that such a forum doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. And it is not respected as some reason and is not supported by such an amendment. So here we really are in a 67-specific position where, I don't know, it's probably my fault and now I'm in a big dilemma. Here, I have prepared a set of amendments to the Civil Aviation Bill and the Proposal for a Law on the Service Agency, and here I may have revealed it to you now, and it would have been better if I hadn't, if I had given it to someone else and someone else was defending them, because there's going to be prejudice again -- yeah, what's hiding behind this worse thing is that this one of the worse things wants to make a better thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22563	Thank you. The following was reported by distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22564	I thank you, Chairman. The fact is that this is one of the laws that should bear that particular label that we should define as Parliament, means a law that is one of the conditions and on the basis of which our progress is assessed and a report on progress is being made. And we can, if you have had the opportunity to read, this new progress report for 2008, it can be seen that it is still, it has been established, that no legislation has been adopted that is being established by the State Information Society Agency, in charge of implementing the strategy of the information society throughout the country. It's almost the same finding for 2007. So we need this law. In our first reading, we unanimously accepted it on the Commission, accepted the principles, and here came the second reading. What I'm trying to say here is that there are 24 members of the law in total. Here this is (the efforts made by Professor Dokić, and where really many amendments are quality, better define things, more precisely, terminological things are better arranged) we have a situation where from the Council of Ministers of the Ministry to a law that has 24 members sent 36 amendments to it, and that same ministry accepts 33 amendments. What is the Ministry's relationship to the law, and what did they want with that law? Here, I now ask the Ministry: 33 amendments accept, almost the whole text of the law has been changed!? The next thing I want to say here is that really with the efforts Professor Dokić made, especially Article 8, it's so much that I finally gave up finding and that I can compromise what's changing, what's left. ... I don't know, k) Article 5 is deleted, some are changed, one is a very confusing way of changing that member. And indeed to me as an MP, when we got these yesterday, I was a member of the Commission and I followed it, and when we got the Commission's report yesterday, Mr Dokić's amendment, the Ministry's report on these amendments and this law, believe me, no one can manage it alive anymore. At least I couldn't do those things myself. Next, I would like to say that what I told us at the beginning, when we discussed public administration reform, is one of the basic segments in the report on the progress of public administration reform is information technology, where 3.59% was implemented by this strategy that was adopted. So this shows we need the law. But at the same time, we can't abuse the fact that we need it and that we come from the Council of Ministers for this kind of law. We accepted the 12th of Mr Dokić's 36 amendments. They're far wider, here we have the new 15 again today. I wish Mr Dokić had filed a report in front of the Commission, not only his position as MPs but in front of the Commission that we had discussed it. The Commission has debated 68 of all amendments in quality and delivered its report and we need to make a statement about it and I would really, look, we have a situation again that, like the previous law, we have a situation that is necessary, that the law came into this phase when we have certain amendments that are irreconcilable and that we have a situation that the law can fall. In that sense, I would also ask, given the first of this fact that this is also in the 2008 Progress Report, as there is no progress in this field, and it is an obligation to find a moduso for this law not to fail and to remain, to be adopted and to adopt it and to make a final decision under that law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22565	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. We're moving on to an attempt... I apologize, Reverend Minister Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22566	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, here I am going to say a few words. I wouldn't be talking about the essence of the law here, because this is a debate today on amendments. He has already been presented, so as is said here in the debate and by the distinguished representative of Mr. Nanić and others. So it is very important laws that are the conditions for the BiH European Partnership and, according to all the strategic documents adopted by the Council of Ministers, and Parliament, and our obligations towards international partnership, we should already have a state institution that will deal with information society. I would like to say that a group of experts have been working on this law as we have, and that according to the Council of Ministers, we have sent a bill that is the result of the work of our best experts. Are they good enough, that's not what I want to say. On the other hand, I would also like to give a distinguished confession to Professor Dokić, who has done everything in his best interest to make the law better. I wouldn't agree with him to make a bad one better, because somehow the graduations don't match, but here's the good one, and we've appreciated that, and the Ministry's expert group has analyzed these proposals, which are made in the form of an amendment. However, in most cases, it was about minimum interventions concerning one word, one term, etc., and to be pretentious, to put it that way, to call them amendments, but to make it easier, to put it that way, presentations. It may be, in some ways, an answer to Agent Nanić, so about the 36 amendments. In fact, this is about minimum interventions: of 36, so 33 here is this intervention or improvement or correction are accepted, and three are absolutely rejected. Why? Because they touched the very spirit of the law. So, the spirit of the law is to coordinate these activities and this matter, and one of the proposals was an amendment to just promote, so, which I now absolutely consider to be insufficient state jurisdiction in this area and these amendments are therefore rejected. Of the other amendments, I would like to say that, as I say, both those or those, so to speak, the improvements that 13 have been accepted with the corrections that the expert group itself, so on the incentive of 69 MPs Dokić, gave the formulations and with which, as said MP Dokić, I agreed. However, the Commission has not accepted these indications and, of course, it should be taken here today with full respect and I think that it should go today, given these facts that I have said and that have been said by the honourable MPs before me, that this law is needed for us, not only for Europe but also for us here. When you see Article 8 and all those obligations that the Agency should also work on, so to speak, electronic business, electronic signature, academic networks, etc., and highways and a lot of other things, I think today should come to a conclusion, you will, of course, choose the best conclusion: to make additional efforts through the Commission to come together with the expert group of the Ministry to such solutions that will allow the adoption of the law at one of the next sessions. Here, I thank you and encourage you to make such a decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22567	I thank the Honorable Minister Ljubić. The word came from a respected representative, Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22568	Here, in response to Minister Ljubić, and to everyone else, let it be noted. These three amendments, which the minister says match, I would disagree. But I gave up on them, respecting that fact. I don't know what this panel with the expert group would do now when I'm all that the Ministry's expert group has suggested. So these 12 amendments that were accepted were largely modified, I, in order to do so, accepted. These were restored by the Ministry's expert group. So I don't avoid looking for a way to get past this, but I don't know, here, but I'm really telling you, I don't know. If anyone is prejudiced by some of this, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm saying again, I wanted to, I made an effort, and I'm sorry about that. I wrote a day and a half, you understand, because if someone was hard to follow, but it's not easy to write, you know, I lost a day and a half, a whole weekend, to create conditions for us to get to one law, and I didn't come across, I won't say, necessary but not minimal support within the Commission, I don't say any more. I thank the expert group of the Ministry who had the most right to express a certain dose of vanity, so to say, here, given the number of these, we will reject it. They've been very professionally sitting down, arguing, asking for an additional deadline, asking for time, making time, coming to the Commission, and the result is the one you have ahead of you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22569	Thank you. The next is the first deputy chairman, Mr. Beriz Belkić. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22570	I absolutely have no intention of opening up any further, enough of this is more or less clear, I just want to say to Mr. Dokić when it comes to his amendments. As far as I'm concerned, let me tell you right now, 70% are acceptable to them, because they're heading towards improving the text, etc., as far as I understand. However, the problem is that of Article 8 and the way you are amendments, something Nanić was saying, they are not even systematic and I can't do a recapitulation of what remains in fact, what doesn't remain. I see and there it is, I want to encourage you to go to this solution that we have recently agreed on for this previous law, this is what Mr. Ljubić was talking about, Minister Ljubić was talking about. So you can do very simply here, you just need to systematize what applies to Article 8 and see what it really is. Here, you see, let's say, I was amazed, to be honest, so I don't have any prejudice, but I was surprised, let's say, in your amendment XV, I support it absolutely, but here I am a little surprised, because I've experienced it so that you don't prefer and ignore participation in this advice of the constituent peoples, rather than going to the profession, choice, etc. That's what the amendment says. No need, no need, here's the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22571	Two members from every constituent nation and one from each other. I'll tell you right away. My Amendment XV is an amendment to the expert group. I've suggested...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22572	And it's great.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22573	Wait a minute. I've suggested...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22574	I don't remember anything I gave you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22575	But let me tell you how tolerated I was, please. I have suggested that members of the Council choose this home without going to the House of Peoples. They felt that it should be simplified and that it would be the Council of Ministers and I accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22576	Okay. Let me get this straight. I encourage you, sir. I think we have a chance and let what the chairman suggests we support.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22577	Mr. Nanić answered. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22578	Mr. Chairman, I cannot understand why Mr. Dokić feels that someone has come with prejudice to want to vote like that. We have adopted 12, plus nine, 21 amendments, 12 concrete ones, which are additional nine to think of adopted ones. 15 is now new that hasn't been restored. And so, and the Commission, the members of the Commission had the feeling that things needed to be fixed and here today, I, as a member of the Commission who was actively working on it, say that we still need to work on getting the law. And in no way does Mr. Dokić or any of us give ourselves a slightly greater right, or a little less right, so that he feels that someone is against him. This was simply a debate through 36 amendments and we had a situation like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22579	Thank you. In order not to make a good and necessary law and, better yet, to amend that law failed because of a lack of understanding, the College does not conclude the debate, or I do not conclude the debate on this item of the agenda. It's the same conclusion as the previous one. So, until the session continues, I leave this question to the Committee to seek agreement on these new aspects and to report to Parliament, or the House of Representatives on this at the follow-up of the session or at the next session, if we finish this session today, when we will continue the debate on this bill. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Border Control, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission As you know, this bill has been in the process for a very long time. At the 36th session, the House considered for the second time a negative opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, which did not accept the principles of the proposed law. The House did not adopt the opinion, and for reviewing and delivering a new opinion it gave the guidelines contained in the conclusions, proposed by prominent representative Šefik Džaferović: that the proposal for a law on border control should be returned to the Council of Ministers for a statement on the DCAF amendments, and then a statement by the Council of Ministers and after a statement by the Council of Ministers to continue parliamentary procedures. We received a new negative opinion from the committee on 11 December. Therefore, the principles of the proposal for a law on border control were not accepted. In its opinion, it also states that the Commission has asked the Council of Ministers for a statement on the DCAF amendments to the Bill's proposal, acting on the guidelines of the House since 13.10.2008. By the meeting of the Committee, held on 11 December, the Council of Ministers had not officially delivered a statement, but the Security Ministry's representative informed the Commission that the ministry had declared itself to the DCAF amendments and that they had been accepted by the Council of Ministers. The Declaration on Amendments received the House on 15 December and it was forwarded to you. The Council of Ministers accepted the DCAF amendments. We, for the third time, have a situation to discuss the negative opinion of the competent commission. 72 I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22581	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, when it comes to this proposal for a law on border control, and when it comes to the next item of the agenda, the proposed law on the control of the movement of military equipment and weapons, it is my impression that these laws simply cannot pass through this commission, because there is simply no will to adopt these laws. I may be in a situation where I don't find myself often, in a situation where I don't see what the way is. I don't see what the way out is, believe me. It is true that we did not have on the Commission a statement from the Council of Ministers, but we had a representative from the Council of Ministers who said: yes, the Council of Ministers accepted these amendments and combined them practically in its text, both as regards one law and the other. But then there was no agreement that the laws should be missed at least in the first reading. Look, this is about first reading. We haven't moved since the beginning, so we'll talk about the amendments later. And here we have the Council of Ministers' position to accept the amendments and we say all of us, who are for this first reading, here, we will accept all these amendments, we can also conclude, and we can put that into the opinion of this law in the first reading. But, again, there's no consent. So this is one situation where I, rightly so tell you, I don't know what's better. Should we today accept the Commission's report and bring down these two laws or return the matter to the Commission, that the Commission is doing the same job with the result that I am again expecting it to be as it is. This is an alarming situation, as it is a proposal for a border control law that should bring BiH more seriously into the implementation of its visa waiver obligations from the Roadmap. And let me, therefore, because it's the same situation with regard to this second law, that I don't report for a word later; I don't combine a debate on these issues, but I'm talking about one phenomenon over two laws. The second law concerns the transfer of the jurisdiction of an international institution to the BiH institution. As long as that law doesn't happen, that institution, i.e. EUFOR will do that kind of work. You, as a College, judge. Whatever you do, I'm kind of ready to back that thing up. I'm simply in a situation for the first time that I can't offer a solution, because I don't know what will happen when things get back on the Commission. Last time, there was a statement from colleagues who said the law was not passed unanimously by the Council of Ministers. The amendments adopted by the Council of Ministers were unanimously accepted by the Council of Ministers and the text of this law was unanimously corrected. Here, that's what I'd have to say, without any suggestion, and whatever you suggest by it as a college, I'm willing to support it. I just don't have any more cheeks to ask you to get this thing back to the Commission. I'm sorry we're in this situation and let everyone take their share of responsibility for their behavior when it comes to these laws. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22582	Thank you. The following has been announced by distinguished representative Jozo Križanović, and may the distinguished representative Mirko Okolić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22583	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will not repeat this part that my colleague Džaferović has expressed and with which I mostly agree. It is a very important law that should play a significant role in visa liberalisation. However, I want to remind here that this law has been in parliamentary procedure for eight months. That the Defence and Security Commission has expressed the maximum will, I say, and the willingness to do anything to keep this law alive and possibly eventually adopt. However, I was on the Commission's "for" bill, and today I will be "for" the Commission's report. I think it's rational and productive to, I mean, get faster to this law, proposing it in some new form. In my opinion, the main problem is why we came here like this, to say, in one long process of considering this law is a deviation from the Rules of Procedure. So by considering the law in the first reading, so on the principles of the law, we introduced some amendments that circled on the sides, whether it was the Council of Ministers' amendments, I don't know which organisations, and thus blocked only the statement of principles. We didn't give this law a chance to come to a phase of amendment. So, for the best of all, I'm not going to talk here about the responsibility and the Council of Ministers as a legislator of this law -- here, you see, it's a very important law -- which is not here to say what's essentially a problem. But I'm saying, in the best way to get to this law as soon as possible, I'm voting for the Commission's report today, to give the new bill a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22584	Thank you. The following has been announced by Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić, and may the honourable representative Halid Genjac be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22585	Here you see, I think, and mine will also be the suggestion that this law is better to bring down today than to bring it back to the Commission. On the contrary, I suggest that it no longer be returned to the Commission, because we will be dealing with it for perhaps as much time as they did and we will not get to the law that is absolutely necessary. I'm surprised by this tenacity that a law that's visible can't pass in this way is pushed by a pronoun in some form that isn't acceptable to all those who should vote for it. Since it is an extremely important law, I repeat, my proposal is that it is not coming back to the Commission today, because we are going to waste extra time. As 74 is, on the Commission he will not get a pass, and then we will again be in a position to bring this opinion back to the Commission, and this is the question: whether or not it fits the Rules of Procedure. ......... Before I say it, here you can see that these days we have a constant story, reports, statements, etc., that this Parliament has not passed the number of laws that were set before it as being drawn to adopt. Well, I don't think this parliament is guilty because this law hasn't been passed for eight months, because it adopts a law or a decision or anything else when it thinks that this law is good or that it has acquired the conditions to be adopted. And Parliament cannot be blamed for not adopting some law that does not have a pass-by in Parliament, which should be well suggested by the proviso. This is what I am saying in order to ensure that it is better not to return to the Commission, because in the ministry of a particular organisational unit on the Defence Commission, they did not agree with each other that the existing law is better than that proposed. And when you hear something like that on the Commission from people who would have to talk about this law in a comma and agree to it, to come before the Commission, then you can think whether this law is better to return it to the Commission, or if it is better to bring it down today. My proposal, as I said earlier, is that he no longer returns to the Commission, because we will waste time again. As a matter of fact, let one of the authorities put him on the same team, or on another team, in a new form, to propose him to this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22586	The next is Honorable representative Halid Genjac, and let the distinguished representative Adem Huskić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22587	Thank you, Chairman. Both the one and the other laws that are on the agenda today, and the draft law on border control and the proposal for a law on control of the movement of arms and military equipment, are one of the key conditions and one of the key priorities listed among other things in the Individual Partnership Action Plan for BiH on NATO Association.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22588	Would you be so kind as to sit down so your colleague can continue his exposure?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22589	So, implementation of IPAP, so-called The individual partner action plan is one of the key moments in our aspirations towards NATO membership, i.e. towards obtaining MEP, or... action plan, and since these two laws, as I said, are one of the key conditions in order to assess the implementation of the IPAP, the question arises: what are we actually doing. And in the making of these laws, one and the other, we had all the institutions and entities involved, etc., and in making IPAP, we had a number of representatives of all institutions and 75 entities involved, etc., and we agreed on that, and then simply two key laws on the Commission in the first phase we get on the grounds that this is a question – taking the authority of the entity. Maybe it is, but whatever we do today, or we get back to the Commission, or we ask for a re-design of the bill, we'll face this same problem again. So, with this approach to entity competence and competence, BiH cannot obtain the laws needed to continue our path into NATO integration. With this view, in fact, with this reduced understanding and attitude towards the competence of BiH institutions, we cannot have aspirations to make a more significant step in NATO integration. And we all swear NATO integration. I said this as some kind of appeal and as some kind of warning and I didn't have an answer to what to do. If before the law will be obtained in a way that it will experience its end today, then we will go that way, and there will be a new bill, because we do not have a business opportunity to take the endlessly time this report of this committee... which twice refuses - implies that the law has failed. If that means speeding up the adoption and adoption of these laws on some quality pantry, maybe that's a better way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22590	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22591	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe it's a little late for me to suggest, but here's my point of view. I think we could put together a debate on both laws, put together, because in fact, everything that's said about one is true for the other. These laws have been in parliamentary procedure since April. The laws of the Council of Ministers. I said last time, in one of the discussions, that I think these two laws are collateral damage to relations in the Council of Ministers. Now I don't think that's the case. These two laws are collateral damage to the overall political relations in BiH, in my opinion, and here certain political parties who do not want their people in the Council of Ministers to exhibit, here I will say so, in my opinion, against the international community to vote for these laws, and then order their MPs in committees and Parliament to take them down. Here, in a particular case, it's SNSD. This is the Council of Ministers' law, not the Ministry of Security. There's the gentleman from the Department of Security, and it might be good to hear from him, too, but I think that's what this is about. With one of these laws, it is a proposal for a law on control of the movement of weapons – just to remind you, I know we are not at that point in the agenda, but I have suggested that we conduct a joint discussion – just to remind you that this is the last function that EUFOR has in BiH from military jurisdiction. All other EUFOR functions have been transferred to domestic authorities, this is the only one left. I personally don't think there's any need, let EUFOR, let it control it, and I don't see much of a problem with these laws being pushed at all costs. They are only burdening the work of the Commission, including Parliament, and I suggest that 76 adopt the Commission report, as counterpart Križanović and Okolić said, to return and not to be hasty now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22592	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law on the control of the movement of arms and military equipment, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission We have exactly the same situation as in the previous point. So for the third time, we have a negative opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee under the Proposal for a Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment. Opinion delivered on 11 December. The Council of Ministers' statement on amendments to the draft law was delivered on 15 December 2008. You saw, the Council of Ministers unanimously adopted the amendments. I'm opening an opinion debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22597	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I won't be long, I'll watch as soon as I can lay down this law as I've proposed, because last time I've made such a little more extensive statement of intensities and reasons for the passing of this law. First of all, I still need to remind myself of some things. This law should be in line with the laws already passed in many European countries, more specifically, in 11 European countries, where genocide occurred, have this kind of law. So if we are discussing this, there is a basis for us to accept this law in our first reading and move forward in its procedure. Besides, I would remind you that in the explanation there also exists that they are... Since 26 January 2007, the UN unanimously adopted a Resolution on the negation of holocausts in which, in the Additional Protocol with the Convention on Chinese Crime and Crime, the acts of racist xenophobic nature have also been adopted, that this matter must also be processed in the Member States of the UN, i.e. it must be regulated, which is clearly explained. And I'll remind you that this house has also adopted the Genocide Resolution... that is, the Additional Protocol to the Kinemetic Crime Convention, so that as a state, it obliges us to pass this law. I will also say that the Council of Ministers at its 37th session made it clear that this matter is not criminal, is not covered by criminal law or by other special law. It means that the matter needs to be done, and it should be accepted as such. Taking this into account, and I will take into account that the three commissions, meaning the Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives, the Constitutional Commission of the Peoples and the Commission of Human Rights gave a positive opinion on this law in the finality, although the law has only three members, I think this law would regulate that gap that the Council of Ministers observed and gave the Ministry of Justice to respond to this law. And from that point of view, I think today the support of this law in first reading would be one and a moral act fulfilled by this home, this parliament towards the people who have suffered the crime of genocide and other crimes that took place in BiH, and the law requires everything. So it's precisely precise, and there's no reason no MP would vote for this law. I hope you will all support this law together in this form. Thank you very much. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22598	I thank the esteemed representative Ajanović. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda: Ad. 11. Report by the College Committee on the Effort to reach agreement on a proposal to show the House to be considered in the second reading of the draft law supplementing the Law on the Public TV System of BiH You got the report. No consent has been reached. There will be a statement in the second round. We're going to the 12th point, Ad. 12. Report by the Commission on the attempt to reach agreement on Sadik Bahtić's request for consideration of the proposal for a law on state property of BiH under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22602	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have no intention of discussing this item, but I have one request. I was in the office doing some very important work, and by the time I got here from the office, I crossed the point where I was proposing. I expected that the representatives of the Association, as in some way here was promised, would say a few words about this subject and in the meantime that I from the office would come to the hall and that I could say something. I think it would be useful to discuss this point for a few minutes, so I suggest, if this House agrees, to renew the debate on point 9 and to hear the president of the Association about this very important topic, because I think there's a lot of information that would be useful to know.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22603	Thank you. Is there someone on the 13th agenda to answer for the word? If not, I'm closing the debate on the 13th wheel. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics The Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics is 4. 12. In 2008, the proposal for a decision was submitted. It is proposed that Hidajeta Redžić, under decision 11, be appointed to the Council of National Minorities. I'm opening a debate. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 15th point of the agenda: Ad. 15. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement on air traffic between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of Ukraine, (b) Agreement on Cultural Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of China, (c) Note of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Norway on the revision of the succession of bilateral agreements concluded between the former SFRY and the Kingdom of Norway, 81 (d) European Treaty on the Main Internal Waterways of International Meaning (AGN), (e) Protocol between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary in connection with the succession of bilateral international contracts concluded between the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia/Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the People's Republic of Hungary, (f) Act XXIII of the World Postal Association – Bucharest, 2004
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22608	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22609	Dear Representative Bahtić wanted to, we haven't finished yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22610	Today is my birthday, December 18th, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-17-0.u22611	We congratulate you without flowers. Please, just for a little bit more attention, we're not done yet. So in accordance with the earlier plan and agreement, so that by 18,00 hours we could not complete or begin the next point of the agenda, the College has determined that with these 15 points of declaration to conclude work today, by informing you that... we have assessed the legitimate remarks of the distinguished representative Vink Zorić, and we will not propose a continuation of this session for 23.12. but for 29.12. As it is a 24-hour deadline, a 24-hour session interruption takes House consent, so I ask you to support this proposal from the College, or to make your statement on this proposal. Please prepare for a plea and join the plea now. With 37 votes "for", one "against", one "abstained", I find that the House of Representatives has accepted this proposal from the College to continue this session 29.12 at 10.00 hours. 86 I would like to inform you that a special session will be scheduled for that day to discuss the draft budget of the BiH institutions after the end of the 42nd session. I thank you all for your attention. Goodbye. The seat was suspended at 17.36 p.m.
