ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21147	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, please take your seats to continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 38th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. At today's session, apart from the representatives, our regular guests were invited: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs. I welcome all present representatives and guests, I also welcome representatives of public information funds. According to service information, I'd like to conclude that there are 35 representatives present at the session. Justified absence: Jovan Todorović and Snježana Rajilić. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have received a draft agenda for this session. Before moving to the debate on the proposed agenda, I would like to inform you that the distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović re-delivered the proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production in the procedure on 20th of this month, with a request to be considered in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. I remind you that this is the third legislative proposal from the same area Mr. Lijanović submits in the procedure. The first proposal was tabled on 24 April 2008 for which we delayed the statement at the 32nd session, with the adoption of the conclusion that the proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production within the CEFTA Agreement is delayed by the end of 2008 and the Council of Ministers and the Competent Ministry is tasked with preparing a comprehensive analysis of the impact of the application of the CEFTA and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement on the BiH external trade balance. 2 Next draft of the law, distinguished representative Ivanković Lijanović submitted 1. Nine. In 2008, and in view of this law, the College, by interpreting its Rules of Procedure, established the fulfilment of the conditions for the application of Article 101(7). So, the procedure has been put to rest until the completion of the procedure in the House, according to the previous bill. And lastly, third in line, the proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production was submitted by a respected representative, Jerko Ivanković Lijanović, on 20 October 2008, with a request for an emergency procedure. At yesterday's session of the College, in accordance with previous interpretation, it took the view that Article 101(7) of the Rules of Procedure of this House should also be applied for the last Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Domestic Production. So, it's a completely dying procedure, and as far as the request for an emergency procedure is concerned. This is what I am reporting to you to understand why this request for an emergency procedure is not included in the agenda of the 38th session. And one more question. Dear Representative Rifat Dolić directed the initiative to include a point in the agenda of this session in terms of curbing and easing the financial crisis and its consequences for the economy and the citizens of BiH. The Dom College discussed this request and presented it at a session of the Enlargement College, which was also attended by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. After a comprehensive debate, the Extended College found that it was a very serious issue to be better prepared. In this context, it is taken the view that the College of the House, in collaboration with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, prepares material for the next House session and formulates the agenda point. I, before the beginning of this session, also informed the distinguished representative Dolić and he agreed with this proposal from the enlarged College. We are now going to consider the draft agenda. This morning you received the consolidated text of the amended and updated agenda proposal. The amendments concern the 6th point because we have received negative opinions and the Constitutional Commission and the Finance Committee and the Budget on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Bank of BiH, Proposer Milorad Živković. The 10th item of the draft agenda "Adem Huskić's initiative in connection with the Decision on the restriction of imports of passenger cars, freight vehicles and car tyres" was removed because the Committee for Foreign Trade and Customs failed to hold a session due to the lack of quorum. The agenda is complemented by the inclusion of three agreements in order to give consent to ratification. Here, these are the amendments and additions to the agenda. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Dear Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21148	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 101 and paragraph (7), if I understand correctly, I should not be included in the agenda in the request for an emergency procedure that I have filed. So I'm asking to consider an emergency procedure for the adoption of this law, the opposite of the decision that was made before. I think we should discuss an emergency procedure today. Whether we need to do something urgently or not, depending on the vote in the emergency procedure, we will see how the law will have a further destiny. And only after the emergency procedure has not been passed can it possibly be included in Article 101 and try to synchronize these three laws in some subsequent period, although they have great differences, as they relate to different goods. Well, here, I'd like to ask you to put this emergency procedure on the agenda. I would also like to propose a new agenda item, which is: - Voting no confidence to the Council of Ministers in view of the financial and economic situation that has hit the whole world, especially the United States, the EU. Since this is already taking place throughout this year, and even in the past year, it has been seen in many ways that something like this will happen, and our Council of Ministers has practically no significant measure, although this financial situation will have very negative consequences for our economy, as our economy and its development has largely been based on loans and on the financial support of banks coming from EU countries, it is now evident that this support will be far less, and that the interest rates will be far higher than they have been so far. Also, foreign savings where BiH guarantees only 7.5 thousand marks for the savings and announces an increase to 15 thousand marks, while neighbouring countries guarantee the same savings in the amount of 100,000 marks. The consequences of such a decision are that a large number of our citizens are raising money from our banks and taking it to banks in neighbouring countries. So our citizens' money will fund the economy of neighbouring countries. That's one tip that, in my opinion, spilled a glass. Although the Council of Ministers, lastly, in fact its entire mandate, practically, not applying the CEFTA Agreement, not applying safeguard measures, favours the products of neighbouring countries here, and essentially, now and through this is to see that it goes hand in hand to neighbouring countries. I practically feel like we have a Council of Ministers of the Neighbouring Countries, not a Council of Ministers of BiH. For this reason, I was also signed by counterpart Hadzhi Jovan Mitrović and counterpart Sefer Halilović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21149	I thank the distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Branko Dokić. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21150	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I owe you an apology. In fact, at the previous session at the beginning, I wasn’t focused enough and I didn’t understand that these two sessions were separated. That's why I went with that motion initiative. And I got into, I admit, an offside position, so to speak. But because of the stenogram from this session, I want to repeat some of what I just said. cijeniti I find the matter very important for BiH as a whole not possible today, I am asking that this initiative be discussed at the next session and that MPs, apart from the full presentations of Mr. President-in-Office Silajdžić, except those of the two UN, the other from Strasbourg, be delivered to the presidency on the visit of Mr. Ren ten days ago. In addition, here is now an additional request, indeed, to discuss this in this House, I would like to remind MPs who were not at the meeting of the National Assembly of the RS, who discussed this, that some of the MPs from both the Party for BiH and the US have pointed out the fact that this issue should be discussed in Parliament. So here is the opportunity to really discuss it in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21151	I thank the esteemed representative Dokić. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21152	Gentlemen, the chairman, here is the fact that several events have recently defined our political activities, so we, on behalf of the SNSD Club, will try, in a way, to unite all these discussions through the proposal of one item of the agenda. We voted today on granting consent to ratifying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. One of the important conditions in the agreement is regional co-operation and obligations BiH has in terms of regional co-operation. I, like many others in this country, are not sure that the BiH presidency's Silajdžić have contributed to this regional co-operation, but rather we think that they have reduced it to the worst possible measure lately and that the situation threatens to endanger the fulfillment of these conditions. If these steps have, and normally they have, a major impact on the internal political relations in BiH that can be our internal affairs and that we can... in one way and in another, it is very difficult when one man's feet question regional co-operation as one of the important conditions whose fulfillment requires the EU. Since there have been more initiatives and more demands and more calls for this place to be discussed and, perhaps, for various procedural reasons and initiatives and requirements not to be included or subsequently included in the agenda, the SNSD Club today proposes... the next item of the agenda: yes, in accordance with Article V 3e) of the Constitution of BiH and Rule 5 171 (1) Rules of Procedure, as well as Article 150 (1) and (2) under b), the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives takes a decision: 1. It is up to the BiH Presidency to prepare 'Information on the members of the Presidency's positions at the 63rd session of the UN General Assembly as part of the general debate and the fourth part of the regular session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe'. 2. The information is to be delivered by 1.11.2008 for consideration at the House session, scheduled for 5.11.2008; 3. In accordance with Articles 171 and 172, the House of Representatives invites you to explain 'Information' and participate actively in the debate. I think this is an opportunity to bring all the initiatives together and all the demands that can, in some way, be covered by this agenda point and all the things that have been heard in the past few days. We think that putting this point on the agenda and voting this decision thus enables a full debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21153	Thank you, drag Kalabić, for your esteemed representative. I invite him and the others to deliver all their proposals in writing. The following is announced by the distinguished representative Rifat Dolić, and may the distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21154	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I have accepted the proposal from the College of this House to assign the Council of Ministers to submit complete information on the situation and on the undertaken and planned activities in this direction, but since I have submitted a written proposal, allow me to explain my expectations of this information in just two minutes. So, five days ago, I submitted this written request to include the agenda item "A proposal for a conclusion on emergency construction and adoption of the Strategy to combat and mitigate the financial crisis and its consequences for the economy and the citizens of BiH." In that request, I gave an explanation for the same. I don't think a broad explanation for this is necessary, given that the financial crisis has knocked on BiH's door and already produces negative effects for BiH, its economy and its citizens. As usual, there is no systemic response to counter the crisis and to mitigate its consequences. Instead of a systemic reaction, we are able to listen to individual more advisory than the official steps of individual responsible officials of this country in which, unfortunately, there are also content of combat paroles. I'm not prone to psychos and pessimism but I'm not even a supporter of combat parols that lead astray and create an unreal picture in the face of this world's problem. 6 Gentlemen, the situation in BiH is, unfortunately, far more dramatic than it looks and is presented. Realistically, we have an incursion into deposit-lifting banks, which is, in part, driven by the real effects of the financial crisis, and the other part is driven by the lack of confidence in banks that have a real foothold in the fact that the googogue of the owners of the old foreign savings continues today. In this situation, we can only be helped by the country's systemic reaction, and combat passwords only deepen the confidence gap that causes chain reactions. With my request to include this item on the agenda, I've only actually initiated a systemic reaction to the state. I accept the College's proposal but at the same time I warn that the time of reaction here is a very important factor and that is why we really don't have time to wait. And here, so the 5th of next month is the next session, it's not a long period, and I hope that there will be a lot of answers to open questions in that information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21155	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković, and let the distinguished representative Denis Bećirović be prepared. Mr. Novaković has not been reported. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, and let the distinguished representative of Remzija Kadrić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21156	I must first express my regret with the fact that on today's agenda, the 38th session, there is no law on the agenda, if of course we don't count these amendments and additions. Here, today we are the state that signed and ratified the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Unfortunately, we continue one completely wrong trend of work. That is why I first propose to the College, if possible, that this Parliament achieve insight into the agendas, let's say, the Czech Republic and Slovenia or some other countries that have entered the EU, what these countries have done and what their parliaments have done when they have signed and ratified this agreement. If it is truly possible for us from the College, all MPs in this House of Representatives, to see what this is all about. So, the way you're scheduled for session sessions, I really don't think it makes any sense. I have announced myself, first of all, because of some proposals from people who make up the ruling coalition here in the state parliament. I think and I call, here, and this time fellows don't need to put any more burden on this House with empty issues. It is a completely empty topic in this parliament that we are also discussing Silajdžić's speech and possibly Dodik's speech in the RS Assembly, etc., for the simple reason it is in this parliament, counterpart Dokić, a clear waste of time. And you, and me, and everyone here knows the result of that debate very well. All day we will be bothering Parliament, citizens, media, etc., in the end, the result of the vote is known and clear. I think and call on people who make up the parliamentary majority that all that does not agree within the six parties that make up the parliamentary majority that you are no longer sending it to Parliament's agenda at all, because it is clear that we are wasting time here with such agenda points. That 7 is then really pure demagogy, pure politics, and it has no use for a pronoun, nor us, and especially for citizens. So my proposal is to really try to do what we need to do after today's ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and to stop these points that really have no purpose, for the simple reason that we know in advance and before we determine such points in the agenda how the debate on these points will take place, and we know even better the result of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21157	I thank the esteemed representative Bećirović. The following is the registered honourable representative of Remzija Kadrić, and let the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21158	I thank you, Chairman. So, on the trail of what Denis Bećirović was saying, I, and on the proposal of the initiative of the honourable MP Dokić, that this parliament discusses a speech that he had chaired the BiH presidency in the UN and the Council of Europe, I would like to say two things. I understood from this initiative Mr. Dokić two things, at least two things. First, I understand that he wants to say that Mr Nebojša Radmanović, as a member of the BiH presidency, does not know how to do his job. I believe that Nebojša Radmanović, as a member of the BiH presidency, knows that he is doing his job and that he is doing it in one responsible way, and he has shown it in his work so far. Therefore, Radmanović had opportunities when it comes to the BiH presidency's decision to do what the BiH Constitution tells him to do. Therefore, this proposal coming from the PDP has a background to show us here that some things about the relationship between the PDP and SNSD do not go there, that there are certain misunderstandings, so here he wants to show publicly that Radmanović as a member of the Presidency does not do his job or that he does not know how to do it the way the Constitution tells him to. Therefore, this speech by the BiH presidency in the General Assembly is a matter of the BiH presidency, a matter of foreign policy and these things, of course, should be resolved within the Presidency in the way the BiH Constitution requires. For these reasons, it would be a really unnecessary waste of time for us to talk about these things that are done here. Of course, MPs from the SDA and the Party for BiH in the National Assembly asked for these things to be discussed, not in Parliament, but in BiH institutions, referring to a presidency that was only authorized to address the issue of foreign policy, to resolve these misunderstandings among themselves. Therefore, this requirement is really unnecessary and just a waste of time, which we so need in this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21159	I thank the esteemed representative, Kadrić. Replica, distinguished representative Branko Dokić. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21160	Well, I can say, Mr. Chairman, that what Mr. Kadrić said brings into contact some intentions hidden and related to Mr. Radmanović's presidency – simple insinuations and really no comment is needed. And as for the, here is the request, I repeat again, the debates of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia from the Order of the Party for BiH and the SDA on the requirement to speak, now quote 'and to discuss them in this Parliament', and Mr. Kadrić was sitting in the same row where I am, so if necessary, stenograms can be delivered. On the other hand, I just didn't mean to replicate Denis. But by the time I got up, right here, this is where it's supposed to show how we look at things. And until as long as we look at things in BiH's joint institutions who say them, and not what they say, who sends messages, and not what messages they send, there's no happiness for us. Well, it's an opportunity to see if we're mature enough to submit to our messages. And they're so much stronger and harder when they're sent by the first man, independent of the name and last name, the first man of the state. That's why I'm asking. This has nothing to do with, once again, the relationship between the PDP and the SNSD, and especially with the relationship to Mr Radmanović, whom I deeply respect, appreciate and who is doing a great job.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21161	Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21162	Very short. I would ask my colleague Dokić... not to insist on something special on his proposal, since I understand in the presentation of Mr Kadrić that the BiH Party MPs support my proposal which is better than yours and where you will have the opportunity to, in some ways, participate and say what you wanted. I understand that he has nothing against this proposal and that this proposal has support, that he has support and that he will get, because through this proposal we have respected the demands that Mr. Kadrić made these days in public and his party and I think they are on their way, to cancel this debate, and to give support to this proposal and to get to the point of the agenda. I think he is, I thank him for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21163	Replica, a respected representative of Kadrić, and a respected representative of Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21164	So, I, this is the correcting of the wrong allegation, so I answer to Mr. Kalabić, so I'm not up for that initiative at all to have Parliament discuss this at all. I said his speech is a matter of the BiH Presidency, Mr Silajdžić, and a matter of foreign policy, which the presidency should deal with. Therefore, I am against Parliament talking about these things at all. And secondly, so Mr. Radmanović had the opportunity. He, if he had estimated that this speech by the chairman's presidency was harmful to the vital interest of the RS, he would of course have drawn 9 protection of the RS's vital interest. Since he did not estimate that this was harmful to the vital interest of the RS, he did not raise the question, nor was he interested. Therefore, for these reasons, I appreciate that Radmanović did exactly the right thing and in such a way resolved this issue, and not that we are now here, through the National Assembly, discussing this matter from which no one can benefit.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21165	Dear representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21166	Here, first of all, I have not yet been given the opportunity to express my views on the behalf of the Party's MPs' Club for BiH and here are so many corrections to Mr Kalabić's false allegations when he spoke about the views, that is, the Party for BiH MPs' club. If I get my word for the discussion now, I'd keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21167	You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21168	Thank you, Chairman. Here, let me begin the discussion to acknowledge my colleague Dokić, a double confession. First, which at the very beginning of his discussion admitted that he was not concentrated and, secondly, to give him the confession he said 'that as long as we watch whoever speaks some words, there is no happiness in this country', finished quote. I literally wrote here, so full confession from my colleague Dokić. First, I hope, colleague Dokić, that next time you will be concentrated, especially when you are initiating that this parliament is discussing speeches that 99% of the MPs of this Parliament have not even read. And secondly, as it turns out, whoever initiates these things, especially as the initiative is related to this decision proposal, that Parliament is in charge of the Presidency that it is up to the Presidency to provide some information, which we can also bring to the context and, let's say, the limits of taste, that I am not speaking in the procedural sense of the words of questionable initiatives. If you hadn't been focused, it would have been the content of your initiative, and in part it refers to the SNSD Club initiative, i.e. counterpart Kalabić, SNSD MPs' Club, which, of course, the Party for BiH will not support. The more this initiative elaborates, the more the decision-making proposal mentions the question of regional co-operation brought by the chairman of the Presidency to his speeches. I happen to know the full content of one speech, this second speech full of content I don't know, as we assume 99% of the MPs of this Parliament don't, either. Secondly, what I mentioned earlier is that the Bureau is in charge of preparing this information. Can this House be in charge of the Presidency, or have we chosen the Presidency and will we after the debate in this House, which can be conducted for hours, etc., will we be anything smarter, will we change the situation? Or, if we're just going to argue, are we going to put all the speeches in this country, the leaders of all the parties or the officials of all the parties on the agenda and discuss all the speeches? So I'm only saying what I appreciate is that the background of all of this, that is, the initiative of this kind, and that is why Party 10 for BiH will not support, of course, these initiatives. This team is more at stake in the presidency's position in the context of relations between state institutions, because as it stands in the elaborate – in addition to the presidency's duties, the Presidency is obliged to give an explanation, and I appreciate so much that no initiative of such a kind from this Parliament, regardless of who it is, cannot pass. And when it comes to concrete initiatives, here's to repeat in the end, you said really well that 'as long as we watch whoever says some words, there's no luck in this country.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21169	I thank the distinguished representative Hadžiahmetović. Business intervention, the second deputy president, Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21170	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to point out that we've left the agenda and we're dealing with something that's not on the agenda. Mr Dokić made it clear and loud, at least I understood it so, I hope that he will correct me if I did not, said that he is not putting this initiative today, but that he expects this initiative to take place in a regular procedure, as we have done so far, at the next session of Parliament. So that's the end of the story. This initiative has gone, as Mr. Kadrić's initiative has gone, into the commission. The Commission will give an opinion on this initiative. The next time we have Parliament, 5, there will be a agenda point and you will be able to say something about this initiative. So you don't need to discuss this right now. The only thing we can discuss is what SNSD suggested. You have received this decision, the above-mentioned points of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to which the SNSD Club is called to believe that this could be the point of the agenda and the consideration of this Parliament, at the next session. Please, let us quote these points of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and see if that's what the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure say? Do we have the right or do we not have the right to open up this debate? These other discussions will take place on the agenda at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21171	Thank you. Honorable representative Branko Dokić has a replica and distinguished representative Kalabić has a replica afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21172	Mr. Chairman, if it's also from Azra, not that it's a little too much than it's too much. kolegica Azra, I am very, very focused, and I confessed to the moment when I wasn't focused. It seems that in this country it is a shame to admit something and to remind you of only one wonderful song by a Croatian cantator who says - it seems that we are more prepared to die 11 than to say sorry. It's in this country. And you, apparently, colleagues of Azra, are not focused. I did not ask that without Mr Silajdžić's speech we discuss it, as you say 90% of the MPs do not know. I've just asked MPs to be spoken to by those two and another, so the MPs can surrender. And Mr. Kadrić's replica. This is not a question of the vital interest of the RS, and therefore Mr Radmanović, probably, is now reading 'not raised the question of this interest'. This is about, I am deeply convinced, because I have read the speeches, about the vital interest of BiH, and that is why it is the place to discuss these issues in this house.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21173	Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21174	Here, very briefly, though I thought I was clear enough. And now I'm convinced I have the support for this SNSD proposal. Rule 171 (1) of the Rules of Procedure states: "At the request of the House, the BiH Presidency expresses views and reports to the House on issues falling within its jurisdiction." If the border of distaste from the Presidency, which is not a sacred cow but which is related to this Parliament, is to ask that such things give information to this home, then something is wrong. All BiH Party MPs in the National Assembly asked to discuss it here, not in the National Assembly. And we just listened to their demands, made it up, here's if the others didn't, procedurally right decision. And what is disputed is that we cannot get here a speech from the chairman of the presidency in accordance with the procedure? We don't order him, we don't write him speeches, but if you want him to be able to say whatever he wants and whatever he wants and that's the inside thing, he's not even there, but he's headed by a very important institution. And if this Parliament is imposed on the rule that the Presidency is not discussed, does not discuss views, statements, and if you think that we can go on, and then we can only extend it to others and then we will talk about the views of the Council of Ministers, ministers, members of the Presidency, entity governments, prime ministers and others, we will not discuss here, we have no right to do so. Who are we to ask anyone anything? We'll just discuss who's who of us told whom. If that's a new rule, so let's think about it if it will improve Parliament's work. I think we've done everything here with the procedure and I think we've made it possible for everyone who has different views on this matter to participate together in a debate that, as someone said, is also in the next session. It's up to us just to vote this point and get people in line with the procedure for this preparation. We're not looking for anything here, we're just looking for information, nothing else. If someone thinks it should be stopped and that this parliament should not be held, then I don't know who is destroying this parliament's dignity, who wants to be discussed in the entity parliament, not in this. If, if that is the intention, we can interrupt and then let the two parliaments, which also make BiH in a way, then let them discuss it, if we do not have the strength or the agreement to discuss it here. We'll leave it to them, because it's obviously easier for them to agree in entity parliaments to put this on the agenda and discuss this. The same political structures are in both parliaments, the same political, almost the same political parties, so let them be discussed there if we have no will or need, and some think that we are also violating procedures if we are discussing it here. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21175	Dear Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21176	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, I believe this is a matter of the ruling six and not for this House. How your members of the presidency will step forward one or the other or what they will say – that it is for one coalition meeting. Sit down, agree and don't actually waste time... because we have more important things in this country. So I suggest you leave this topic for a coalition meeting, not a session of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21177	Thank you. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović... then Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21178	I just called to confirm what I was talking about earlier. I knew that even in the agenda, there would be a political dance like this that was created at the moment. If you open the debate, there will be a political dance again and there will be no result in the end. And do we really need that here? Does that have any purpose? Does that have anything to do with people getting any use for it? I don't think such debates that don't agree within the ruling six parties really make sense to appear here on the agenda. We can also discuss Silajdžić's speech, we can also discuss Dodik's speech, the conclusions of the National Assembly of the RS, about this declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia this spring, which is about secession, about the right to secession from BiH, what is it. In fact, I would call it a referendum on the abolition of BiH. In response to that, probably, someone will come and say, well, now we're going to call a referendum on the abolition of RS. So perhaps a larger number of people will plead at that referendum. But I'm asking a question - what are we going to do when we're putting down some of that bullshit stuff? That's nonsense, it's not in the BiH Constitution, no right to secession. The BiH peoples are equal and constitutional in the BiH Constitution, and here it is up to us when we will remember to allow them to live in a better way. So, I repeat, no debate should be opened that will lead to this country in 1992. We need something else entirely, and really, if possible, let's get back to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21179	I thank the esteemed representative Bećirović. A correction of the incorrect allegation, distinguished representative Vinko Zorić, and then distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, then respected representative Jozo Križanović, also a replica. Right? 13
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21180	I wanted to correct Mr Lijanović's incorrect allegations – that this is not a matter of the ruling six or unruly six. And I'm going to start using the term "uncontrollable six," because they're doing a lot of orchestrating work. Chuck, I'd say, at some point, there's a stronger orchestra than the ruling six. So, it is not a matter of this initiative proposed by the SNSD Club of the ruling six because, unfortunately, the ruling six are not all members of the Presidency, unfortunately, a great deal of sadness.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21181	Thank you. The next is a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21182	At first, Mr. Dokić, who is not in the O.R., but here, I have an obligation, indeed, to apologize for quoting Mr. Dokić without permission, at the very beginning of his speech, when he said that he was not concentrated and, at the end of his speech, when he said 'as long as we watch who speaks certain words, there is no happiness in this country', finished quote. So, I apologize for quoting Mr. Dokić twice here without asking his permission before. Secondly, I understand a colleague of Kalabić who says they have acted on the obligation of the National Assembly of the RS. But here, I'll tell you that I don't have that obligation, so I'll do, maybe, some other way. I may eventually identify myself with, possibly, the conclusions of the congregations of both entities, perhaps sometimes I won't, but I have no obligation to act on it, unlike, perhaps, from you who feel that you have an obligation. Likewise, you mentioned: if this parliament, or whoever refuses to discuss it in this House, is agreed to be discussed by entity parliaments. I want to correct you in that sense. I don't think it's an address to discuss that kind of thing. And the constitutional and both entity parliaments can discuss in accordance with their responsibilities on different topics. I just want to say that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is not binding on me on this basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21183	Dear Representative Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't want to contribute to the adoption of the agenda. In principle, I would like to say that there are no, in my opinion, issues that are not within the scope and authority of this House to discuss it, therefore neither foreign policy. But for me, it's a much broader issue, leading the 14 foreign policy I have a lot of objections to, than this problem of the UN presidency and Strasbourg. Today we have a relatively modest agenda, both in its contents and in its scope. Therefore, since there are many proposals here, including a proposal on the confidence of the Council of Ministers, I would suggest that the College and us ask colleagues to withdraw all their proposals, to move on to the proposed agenda, and that these initiatives which may, possibly, have some basis to negotiate with their colleagues more in preparation for the next session and that what counterpart Bećirović said is that they are really running for some topic that seems to have some success here, rather than for further deepening here disagreement. I don't think any of these initiatives that are highlighted here today will get a pass in the agenda itself, including in the agenda, let alone in some productive outcome. Is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21185	Thank you, too, but I just didn't understand whose incorrect allegations you corrected. Business intervention, esteemed representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 65. The Rules of Procedure gave the Member's right to propose some part of the agenda and all other colleagues who dispute it today, and you, like the College who allow that debate, violate the Rules of Procedure. Someone can't suggest to me what I'm going to call the agenda point I'm proposing, but they can't vote for that agenda point to be on the agenda today. By engaging in replicas and discussions, we enter into the essence of the proposal, which is also not allowed in business. I would ask, Chairman, the College to observe the Rules of Procedure in this direction because it is not a vain question of replicas, false allegations outside this section of the Rules of Procedure where the agenda is spoken of. I would pray, indeed, not only today but also in the future that we have these two members of the Rules of Procedure in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21187	Thank you. I hope my colleagues heard that. Dear Representative Kalabić, you have taken advantage of two options. The esteemed representative Milorad Živković is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21188	Correction of an incorrect quote or perhaps a little clarification about what a respected colleague of Azra was saying, which is a matter of obligation to what entity congregations bring, office or debt to one of us here at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. That attitude of yours that you just said earlier, I would understand that in the last year, you didn't absolutely do the opposite or you want each of us to have a short memory and not to remember what was done, let's say last year. I will remind you that the Resolution on the Srebrenica Parliament of the Federation 15 adopted on 24.4.2007 in which he said in one of the points that it is necessary to adopt an emergency law on the status of Srebrenica, as your party has proposed, and that we expect a constitutional procedure to be launched to regulate and secure the territory of the Srebrenica municipality, etc. etc. And you have proposed amendments to the BiH Constitution to single out Srebrenica. Was it by the order of the Federation Parliament or was it your own? Is it? Of course, it's personal, just for a reminder.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21189	Thank you. The following has been reported by distinguished MP Beriz Belkić, for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21190	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it seems to be a growing problem to apply for the discussion. So, I'm applying for a discussion. Of course, people sign up for the replica, for the wrong allegations both this and that, and then the discussion. So I fully agree with Mr. Novaković and his interpretation and I will discuss it in this direction. So I volunteered to discuss the agenda, specifically the SNSD proposal, not the measure of things. It's not fair, so abuse the Rules of Procedure and discuss Mr Silajdžić's speech, what happened here. So, we've been discussing the agenda, so the man's not here, and we've already discussed it, and we've opened up a series of other issues, which is not in line with the Rules of Procedure. When it comes to the SNSD's concrete proposal, I find it unnecessary, not contesting the right of the proposal, not contesting anyone to propose any part of the agenda. Why do I find it unnecessary? If you heard both the chairman and the second deputy, we in the procedure have this initiative by Mr Dokić, who has already passed through the College and forwarded to the competent commission. So we have this thing in the process. When it comes to speech both, I am absolutely certain, especially when it comes to RS MPs, that they all had it because it was the subject of detailed analysis and expertise from all angles. So we have the possibility, Mr Silajdžić will certainly not avoid in this parliament, nor will the BiH Party's MPs avoid. So we're not about to include this agenda point for the simple reason we have the same thing through this initiative. So it is certain that you will have security and speaking, at least those who do not, and there is no need to discuss this further. Of course, we should put it to a vote, so we'll see.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21191	I would like to thank the esteemed Deputy Belkić. The next one was announced by a respected representative, Sadik Ahmetović, and let the distinguished representative Husein Nanić be prepared. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21192	Given that all of these initiatives and proposals on the agenda today, or most of them, therefore, are also aware that they cannot get support or passage to be placed on the agenda – were intended only to speak of them today or possibly transfer them to means of information, I, in that sense, and suggest one conclusion: to reach a conclusion on the time of voting at the House of Representatives' meetings until the amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, and the reason is that sometimes in late hours, at the end of the session, we also vote and the means of information are not able to transfer what we are doing at Parliament's session, and all of us individually and this Parliament are obliged to vote and to the public to be informed or informed of what we have been doing today. Therefore, the conclusion was about to go, or I would suggest it in writing: that at four or five, the first vote should be held and, eventually, the rest of the agenda would be at the end of the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21193	I thank the esteemed representative Ahmetović. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21194	I thank you, Chairman. First of all, I wanted to get involved in the agenda debate, estimating that there was a Council of Ministers and that one of the ministers might hear the debate. I think we need her before everything we have today, here's what Mr. Denis Bećirović said, we have 10 points of the agenda. In those 10 points we have two points of formal nature, we have five points proposed by the commissions, we have one point proposed by the MP, we have one report of this directive that is not from the Council of Ministers and we have one point proposed by the BiH Presidency about consent. So, today, of the 10 points of the agenda, we don't have any points proposed by the Council of Ministers. We had a similar situation in previous sessions. What I'm trying to say is that today from those two contracts, or one ratified by 600 pages, it really says in big fat letters that it's our obligation to discuss the talks of the Prime Minister, members of the Presidency, etc. etc. And largely, we have to have an extraordinary session tomorrow, so we'd better call it in, and let's talk about stories about what someone's walking around the world and saying. What I want to say: The College's decision that we finally got a schedule by the end of the year when the sessions are held. That, with us fellow MPs, removes the great responsibility that we do our duty and that we demonstrate our activities. And what do we get on the agenda? So, to wait for decisions, legal solutions from the Council of Ministers, we shouldn't have a session in two months. This is a good opportunity for us to put all the questions on the agenda, to sit down a few times and a week. But this shows us, indeed, how much we have the Council of Ministers' activities. 17 In that sense, I really welcome the College's decision to make this clear. What I'd like for the College to continue on with the introduction of this order: is to make the daily schedule of our sessions, to say the session starts at 10, ends at 18 hours. It's been a break ever since. Because I really don't want to go to lunch illegally, I want to participate actively in discussions on all the points, to contribute, to prepare the discussion and to have an exact schedule and to know when the vote is. In that sense, I would really like to appeal to the College to make this effort too, to have that agenda, and to the Council of Ministers, I would really like this to be heard by my one of the Council of Ministers and to share it amongst ourselves, that indeed Parliament is working regularly, works with the points of the agenda that come in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And I would completely agree with Mr. Novaković about the Rules of Procedure and today's work and future our work.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21195	Thank you. The next was announced by the second vice-president, Mr. Milorad Živković, and may the distinguished representative Drago Kalabić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21196	Thank you, Chairman. First, I want to say that obviously there are no TV teams to monitor the transmission of this and that obviously for a report that the media, printed, will get two or three rows, will not be adequately explained. We didn't talk about the measure of things today, proposing this initiative. We never once quoted the speech mentioned in this initiative, because if we did, then we would have broken the Rules of Procedure, and some of them said that we were going into the measure of things, that we quoted for example. that the Dayton Peace Agreement has stopped war, aggression and genocide, even though we know that aggression has not been or has been decided. That entity voting is a continuation of genocide and ethnic cleansing by other means, because citizenship law is five times brought down here by the same anti-constitutional law. So we didn't talk about the metrics. We only asked that two initiatives that would come to the agenda next time be complemented so that there would be no other interpretations than as interpreted by a member of the Bureau himself, who gave these speeches and asked in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which we have the right and the Constitution, that the Bureau deliver that information next time to the session. What's so controversial about that? So no one said this parallel couldn't talk about it. It is disputed that we ask the Bureau member, or the Bureau, to carry out his duty, the one given to us by the Constitution and this Rules of Procedure, and to come here next time to open this debate together and then to get into the scale of the matter, so let's talk about this. I just mentioned, that's two things, not to mention that just quoting documents is actually one very bad way of making speeches. Because I have made a speech quoting the Venice Commission, the UN, decisions of the European Commission, etc., drawing only one sentence at a time. You know what that speech would look like? This is not the way a member of the Bureau can speak on behalf of a state, quoting one sentence 18 from any document that comes into his hand. That is what we wanted to talk about, and it is the duty of this Parliamentary Assembly to discuss it. We of the SNSD have offered a way to resolve this with a decision. This decision, this is the possibility given to us by the Rules of Procedure, has never been used in this House. So we don't use what the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution allow us to assign a member of the Bureau to come and talk about it. It's not anti-constitutional, nor meddling in their business. It's a conversation that we just had a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, actually a duty. This is what Europe wants us to do, as the rest of the countries have problems in their countries, but these problems are solved by agreement, compromise, conversation. And I don't think there's really anything controversial or anything besides the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution in this decision we've proposed. We know that there are others who think otherwise, that this shouldn't be a part of the agenda, but we think that what will come as initiatives next time on the agenda would only be complete and only the discussion would be much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21197	Replica, distinguished representative Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21198	If these discussions and these proposals proposed by the SNSD are going to take place, I would like to have the meeting provided, in order to make the best sense of what Mr Silajdžić was saying in the UN and in Brussels, I do not know, it would be good to have the International Court of Justice president from The Hague at the meeting. If you can secure it, Mr. Živković, it would be very good.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21199	Replica, the esteemed representative of Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21200	My replica refers to the presentation of the deputy chairman of this house, Mr. Živković, when he said, therefore, about this initiative proposed by the SNSD -- it does not go into the scale of Mr Silajdžić's presidency. So then he entered the measure of the presidency's speech when he said that he said there in his speech that aggression had been committed to this country, and then Živković said that there was no aggression, and I am correcting his guilty allegations that aggression was being committed to this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21201	Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21202	I had a chance to say a few things. You see, we could easily get out of this if we accepted the discussion of the SDA MPs, of which one said earlier: there was someone there talking around the world. If that someone is irrelevant and that someone is absolutely irrelevant to us here in the sense that 19 we minimise it in this way, here we can accept it from the SNSD, but that this parliament says that someone is irrelevant and that someone we don't need to pay attention to; if that's the attitude, then we can also talk that way. But if it's not someone, then we have to revise the attitude, so let's say who it is, is it important for us and should we discuss it? Secondly, counterpart Azra, struggling with Dokic's concentration, forgot her concentration. And then she came: 'the concentration problem', forgetting that I, as a State MP, and you like to hear it when I say State MP, in accordance with the state procedures here, spoke to Parliament's State Rules of Procedure and everything in this context, and you persistently want to make me an MP from the RS and work hard. And you keep wanting us and Jerko in some T-shirts to come here and separate us in some way. You don't need that. I think you're persistent about it. I spoke as an MP for this House of Representatives, in accordance with procedures, with my right to run for office on behalf of the SNSD Parliament Club. Getting into motives and stuff, I think it's below level. I think it's very incorrect. I think that's what got you lost, which is why and how, why someone here legitimately suggests agenda points and who has motives. That'll do a little bit in the hallway. I can explain to you the motives and, I don't know how I got into the club that decision. But I don't think it's correct, it's not correct. We're trying to stay right at the procedural debate and tell if we have the right to the presidency, we're not asking Haris Silajdžić, we're asking the Presidency, and I keep saying that Remzija is with us in that story, we're asking Radmanović as well. So this is where I expect your support. And I agree, they're members of the presidency, to hear each other here, or one on behalf of them, it doesn't matter. I don't agree with what's said to be irrelevant. It's not someone and it's not someone out there who's saying something in the world. Those are the qualifications of the U.S.A. I refuse. It's about the BiH presidency. And we wanted to comply with the Rules of Procedure, the procedures, to declare today a decision in which we cannot influence. He has just sent that we will influence, in accordance with the procedure, what people will write, how they will deliver, and in what way and how it will be. We just called for our right, as MPs and procedures, and then when we say here that under some kind of silent pressure on us to work, someone gets angry. Here, it's this kind of pressure, where we're... imputed to something that we didn't do and we don't want to do, but in advance with assumptions, we're saying that in that way, in the name of something and someone. If we can't use these procedures and if we can't get to our views in this way, then we should be told that one group of MPs here is in invalid status and that they are under special surveillance when they propose. Because those who are calling for demagogy and taking time, they took all the time of this Parliament. Well, don't remind us now of a story that hasn't had a chance to pass, but we've spent hours and hours. But it is their democratic right and we have accepted that we participate in these procedures. I think we should cut this story short, go to the polls. It is about the motion for a decision in accordance with the procedure, one can vote, not vote. The result of the vote is that we move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21203	Thank you. 20 Business intervention, Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21204	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since this debate on the proposed agenda has turned into a debate on all the points of the proposed agenda and the points that are not even proposed in the agenda, here I am, in the name of the Club of Representatives of the SDA, looking for a half-hour break to calm down a little passion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21205	At 13.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21206	Thank you very much. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21207	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue to work. Does the club's name want to explain the motion for a break? Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21208	Well, here, after this short break in the euro, as they have said, I would ask my fellow MPs, given that the debate on the proposed agenda has gone pretty far, and given that we should end this session today, I ask representatives who do not need to replicate their counterparts to give up their replicas, and to approach a statement on the proposed agenda, i.e. amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21209	Thank you. At this point, I have no more applications to discuss nor to reply and I am concluding a debate on the draft agenda. I would remind you that Jerko Ivanković Lijanović, who, despite the explanations I gave on behalf of the College on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, insisted that his proposal on the procedure under Article 127 be voted on. I just want to establish, for the sake of a stenogram and for your information, an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure by the College. Consensus has been passed, and that's final. When the College disagrees, then the House declares it. Therefore, this interpretation remains in force and we cannot plead on this proposal. 21 The second proposal by distinguished Ivanković is a statement of mistrust by the BiH Council of Ministers. He cannot enter the session's agenda in business today, but, according to the Rules of Procedure, he will be processed. So in accordance with Articles 143 and 144. Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Branko Dokić explained the initiative he addressed at the previous House session and was sent to the business procedure. So as soon as the business assumptions are fulfilled, it will be included in the agenda. The request of the honourable representative Kalabić will be made after these opening arguments and the request of the distinguished representative Sadik Ahmetović for the enlargement of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21210	Mr. Chairman, I have made some consultations and I suggest that this conclusion be made at the next session of Parliament, in order to reach some conclusion or voting procedure, that today I do not make it quick, and then perhaps we have some failures in the way of voting again.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21211	So today you're giving up this proposal and you have until the next session to prepare this proposal, so deliver it. So, at this point, we have only a statement on the proposal of the esteemed representative Drago Kalabić to include the item on the agenda of today's session 'Decision' (which you have received, that I am not reading it now). And I ask you to prepare to vote on this proposal. Please prepare to vote. Don't say after the vote that you failed, you didn't know, etc. So we are voting on the proposal of the distinguished representative Drago Kalabić on the entry into the agenda of the Decision, which takes 1. It tasks the Bureau to prepare 'Information on the membership of members of the Bureau at the 63rd session of the UN General Assembly as part of the general debate and the fourth part of the regular session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe'. 2. Information should be delivered by 1.11. in order to be considered at the House meeting provided for 5.11. 3. In accordance with Article 170(1) and (2), the House of Representatives invites you to explain 'Information' and participate actively in the debate. Prepare and vote now. With 10 votes "yes", 19 "against" and seven "abstained", I find this proposal not accepted, and I find that the session has the next 22 1. Approval of the minutes of the 35th and 36th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Agents' questions and answers; 3. Proposal for a Code of Conduct for Representatives and Envoys – Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigrants, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics (second reading); 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Security and Security Agency of BiH – Proposer of the Joint Security and Intelligence Committee for the Control of the Work of the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH (first reading); 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of Secret Information – Proposer of the Joint Security and Intelligence Committee for the Control of the Work of the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH (first reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Central Bank of BiH – Proposer of Representative Milorad Živković, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission (Constitutional Foundation), and Opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget, (rules); 7. Report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in BiH for the period from 1. 1. 2008 to 30. Six. In 2008, with the Opinion of Conclusions; 8. Temporary report on the work of the Interresor Working Group on the draft Immunity Act; 9. Declaration of Good Administration – submiter Constitutional Commission; 10. A Memorandum of Understanding on the Institutional Framework for the Initiative for Prevention and preparedness for disaster in South East Europe (b) of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Hungary on Social Security and Social Security, (c) Administrative Agreement implementing the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Hungary on Social Security and Social Security, (d) the Cartagena Protocol on Biosecurity with the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity. We're going over the agenda. First point Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 35th and 36th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21214	Dear chairman, in the name of the Party for BiH MPs' club, I'm looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21215	At the request of the Party for BiH, I am giving a half-hour break. We'll continue at 2.30. [[PAUZA]] I hope you've had a pleasant rest after these two consecutive breaks and we'll work a little faster now. Is there any need to explain this vacation for a break? Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21217	Well, here I feel the need, if nothing else, for all those who have been surprised, because the Party for BiH Club has so far not used this mechanism to seek a break, at least not in this session, and let me just remind you that the previous break was agreed with the expiry of time at 1.15. Only BiH Party for BiH MPs were in the hall at 1.15. The first next MP appeared after 8 minutes, and the last after 35 minutes of delay. And here, let me maybe draw attention to the fact that we have a little bit of collegiate behavior and respect for each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21218	Thank you. I would like to remind you that on the first item of the established agenda, we have opened the debate on the adoption of the minutes of the 35th and 36th session of the House of Representatives. Slavko Jovičić is not. We have a registered record here. All right, I don't have any charges to discuss, I'm closing the debate. Moving to second point: 24 Ad. 2. Agents' questions and answers For this session, the answers were received: Rifat Dolić of the Council of Ministers, asked at the 30th session; Bajazit Jašarević of the Council of Ministers, questioned at the 31st session; Jovan Todorović of the Council of Ministers, asked at the 32nd session; Lazar Prodanović of the Council of Ministers, asked at the 33rd session; Milorad Živković, Zlatko Lagumdžija, Denis Bećirović and Adem Huskić of the Council of Ministers, asked questions at the 34th session. Any comments on the answers? Dear second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21220	Thank you, Chairman. I'm sorry there's no foreign minister, I think you could just get an answer. However, I will then ask that this answer be completed in writing, and now I will set a concrete example. Before the break-up of the SFRY, or after that, BiH took over all bilateral, until then, international agreements it accepted to continue implementing them. In particular, if we accepted with, say, the state of Kuba on visa-free treatment of citizens of one state and another: - Did BiH have the right to unilaterally terminate this contract and has the other party been informed that this was unilaterally done because we introduced visas for these citizens? I've listed a particular state, and there's plenty of countries like that. And I have asked specifically in this sequence of my question to answer me: - Is that why BiH violated international law and what makes it not to continue to violate state law in such a way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21221	Thank you. The following is registered for comment by the esteemed representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21222	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21223	Okay. The following is reported by the distinguished representative Rifat Dolić, the same for the setting. No more comments reported. Please sign in electronically. 25 So Slavko Jovičić is the first to be asked questions. Here you go. Next, prepare the distinguished representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21224	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests from NGOs, of course, and media representatives, respected members of the Council of Ministers who are never here and representatives, there is no one here, thank Bog. Mr. Chairman, this isn't about you, let me start by saying. Now that we are going to adopt this code and you are calling me 'honorable MP', I am proud, as I say to you'respectful chairman', but I am here humiliated and representative and MP, not from you, of course, to be clear immediately, but from all possible institutions of BiH. I stress, the humiliated MP Slavko Jovičić again on the 33rd time asks the same questions and every time I am humiliated by these institutions. And yesterday, over a hundred new candidates who will be admitted to the authorities of the country's administration were here for informative talks, so that some competent authority, institutions, ministries, will not once again begin to respect the constitutionality of the people guaranteed by the Constitution. And we all stick to the consistency of the people, the '91 census. The year, Dejton, this one, that one. So, no one has yet to engage, two years past my term of office. Now the next parliamentary question. Of course, I am putting it into the Protocol of the Presidency, Parliament, Council of Ministers and all the protocols in whose organisation foreign representatives come, no matter what level. I ask the question: - Who makes the program of their visits, so that every almost delegation goes to a famous tunnel? And I respect the Bošnjak' opinion that he meant life to them, but I ask that what happened there be respected. An accident, where 50 of my campers were killed in the construction of all the tranches at the initial stage of the tunnel construction, where I was involved. So, will anyone in the protocol say, "Here, people, this is where the Srbin died." If he meant salvation to the city of Sarajevo, here 50 Srbin were killed, forced to dig a tranche and tunnel. I respect every delegation of sides who express their desire to go to Srebrenica, and where I am fortunate to go with them, I really respect it, and no one can dispute it. But everyone who comes here, every time in the paper, on television, a delegation, I don't know which countries, what level, visited the tunnel. If there's anything else, here's what they want to see, here's how I'm hosting that delegation once, so let me say, welcome and let me say objectively, that's exactly what this meant for Sarajevo and that, but this was also, not unilaterally. So I ask that protocol once, someone let me know who makes those programs. Is it really these delegations all come who are interested in seeing it either these imposes or someone else is breaking out, so you have to go to the tunnel all the time? Here, let's go to the tunnel, I won't take Srebrenica, don't get me wrong, Srebrenica is a priority at the Bošnjak, and here I welcome it. But can you go to Jasenovac once? Can you go to Nazdol once, I don't know if you can go to Jablanica, can you arrange a visit anywhere else, so that these people can see that he's here, not making it, I repeat it all the time, and no one can ever trap me, I'm not looking for a balance in the amount of crimes committed, but a balance in the amount of justice. Here we have heard the story here today – aggression. What court said it was an aggression against BiH? As soon as the court brings it, I'll be the first to stand up as I stood up for Srebrenica and said, "Srebrenica was 26, the International Court found it, none of us disputed, that's how it is." As a legalist, I accept the court's verdict, but what court ruled that it was aggression? She wasn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21225	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21226	There, time's up. Thank you, thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21227	Thank you. I would like to thank the esteemed representative Jovičić. The following is announced by the distinguished representative Rifat Dolić, and let the distinguished representative Husein Nanić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21228	Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have two questions for the Council of Ministers today. The first question is: - What international conventions, agreements, protocols and memos of BiH have not signed and ratified so far, and there is an objectively expressed interest in the state of BiH and its institutions and citizens? And what state institutions are individually competent and responsible to launch initiatives and carry out their signing? There is information that the BiH state has not signed a large number of international conventions, agreements, protocols and memos to date, and that BiH, its institutions and citizens suffer daily damages due to the non-consuming of the rights and advantages they bear with them. The alleged reasons for the non-signature of these international conventions are mostly referred to as the nelados, inactivity and irresponsibility of officials and responsible persons in BiH institutions, from the ministries and the Council of Ministers to our diplomatic and consular representatives and the BiH Presidency. I ask that this question be answered analytically, citing a list of unsigned conventions, agreements, protocols and memos and BiH institutions that are competent and responsible for their initiation and signature. And another short question: - What is the exact number and what is the fate of pre-war personnel in Sarajevo, Banja Luka and some other BiH cities that were owned by the BiH state and used to accommodate selected and appointed personnel in BiH institutions, and after the war they disappeared under the auspices of the privatisation of BiH apartments? Unofficially, more than a thousand of these apartments in Sarajevo, Banja Luka and some other cities in BiH, used before the war by the chosen appointed personnel in BiH institutions, which were divided in the war and after the war by law and without any valid criteria and priorities. I also ask that this question be answered by as many analysts as possible about the number of apartments, 27 places where the apartment was located, the institution that used it, the institution and the responsible person who assigned the apartment and the names of the person to whom the apartment was assigned, and who therefore later acquired a tenant right and made a purchase of apartments in privatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21229	I thank the honourable representative, Dolić. The following has been announced by the distinguished representative Husein Nanić, and may the honourable representative of Sadik Bahtić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21230	I thank you, Chairman. I want to ask the Minister of Transport and Communications today. And it's about the next one. An annex to the IX Dayton Agreement on the establishment of public corporations in BiH, which stems from the fact that the reconstruction of infrastructure and operation of traffic and other capacities is important for bringing BiH back to life, has been given special attention to rail traffic on a regular schedule along the railway so-called "rail". The Union railways connecting Croatia and BiH, as can be seen in the letter of obligation of the then head of the joint delegation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Republika Srpska addressed to the President of the Republic of BiH, Mr. Alija Izetbegović, as well as the fact that the letter of obligation is in the Dayton Peace Agreement, means the text of the letter is in the Dayton Peace Agreement. I ask the question of the minister of the said ministry: - What have you done so far and what are you doing to put the Unska railway, which connects Croatia and BiH, and which is particularly important for the further development of the economy both of these two countries and the Unsko-San canton, into office? And I ask you to provide me with information on the state and plans related to the Union Strip. The second issue is for the foreign ministry minister and it is related to the current event, an unfortunate event in BiH. I ask the question: - What will the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs do to ensure the fair and legal treatment and protection of BiH institutions towards foreign diplomats, or ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia to BiH, who took part in a car accident with consequences for BiH citizens who are in grave danger?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21231	I thank the esteemed representative, Nanić. The next is Honourable representative Sadik Bahtić, and let the distinguished representative Šemsudin Mehmedović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21232	Thank you. 28 I will continue by tradition: to pass a law on the census and return of property to the state of BiH, means. And yet one more question, and I hope that soon the law will come to this parliament, too, that it will be adopted. - When will the Council of Ministers, in accordance with Parliament's request and with a series of answers to my parliamentary questions, register and confiscate the former SK's assets that the SDP unrequitedly took, usurped, robbed, and used and rented? I am particularly pleased to hear today's discussion from SDP comrades saying this parliament is not implementing, that the Council of Ministers is not implementing the conclusions of this parliament. I'm here to support you 100%. There is a conclusion in this parliament that the assets of the former SK are to be entered into and that the law is passed and the Council of Ministers has not yet done so, but very soon the law and the name of the Council of Ministers will come to this parliament, that Parliament will declare it. I'm not going to explain much today, because I always say the same thing, I just want to say that I have all the answers of the state's attorney where all the assets of the former SK are seen to be run as state property and given to the use of the former SK of Yugoslavia. So there's no SDP anywhere! I'm saying this for the reason that this year's 2009 Budget Proposal costs 31 million KM. Last year there was a 19 million circus. What kind of Council of Ministers is it when it has property and it gives so much money?- I'm sorry. In five years we will rent 100 – 150 million marks, and one political option illegally uses and raises huge funds. The law will come to Parliament very soon, so we will adopt it. And after that, I'm going to ask for the return of the illegal property benefit from the SDP with tight interest, after the passed law. My second question concerns the Council of Ministers, i.e. the BiH Competent Ministry, which concerns the topic: compensation for... maternity care. You know that we have adopted the Law on Payments here in BiH institutions. The 35th member defined the maternity leave fee. An employee in BiH institutions on maternity leave has the right to compensation in accordance with the regulations governing this area according to the place of payment of contributions for each employee. With them, the RS will, therefore, make a fee of 100% of their unheating under the law, amendments and additions to the Children's Protection Act. The Federation? In the Federation, maternity benefits as well as all social protection grants are financed by cantons of between 50 and 80% of the Federation's average salary. However, not all cantons have passed laws, so in some cantons it is not paid at all. Article 35. The law on salaries and fees in BiH institutions does not comply with Article II item 1... The BiH Constitution, that is, to non-discrimination. BiH and both entities will ensure the highest level of internationally recognised human rights and fundamental freedoms, Article II of Position 1. The BiH Constitution. I'm also talking about the white plague and the natality and all sorts of things that can be fooled by this. So I ask that this amendment to the Payments Act be arranged so that everyone has the same rights. Because I'm just going to give you an example... for example. Canton of Sarajevo has a monthly fee of 360 KM, RS 1.170, Livanski, Unsko-Sanski 0, and I think this law should be brought into line to bring all the foster parents across BiH into an equal position. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21233	I thank the esteemed representative of Bahtić. The next is distinguished representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, and let the distinguished representative Mirko Okolić be prepared. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21234	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have two brief questions to the Council of Ministers, or Minister of Transport and Communications. One is: - A year ago we are convinced that the implementation of the software procurement project is under way for a fairer distribution of CEMT transport permits through third countries. I ask, is this realised, that is, when it will be realised, because the distribution continues to be done unfairly and according to the established principle, and where the funds spent are planned for this project and in what amount? And second question: - How many new workers have been employed since the appointment of this Council of Ministers in this ministry?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21235	I thank the esteemed representative Mehmedović. The following is the registered honourable representative Mirko Okolić, and let the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21236	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, no Council of Ministers, but well, representatives of NGOs, means of information, the international community and other guests. I will ask a parliamentary question of the following content, and I will give a brief explanation. - Due to the frequent speculation and abuse of political purposes of refugee returns or levels of displaced persons in BiH, I ask the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees for a comprehensive response, I believe they will understand this 'integrated', what should be given of the data, to the extent that Annex VII, the General Framework Peace Agreement in BiH, by municipalities, cities, cantons and entities, has been implemented in absolute numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21237	I thank the esteemed representative of Okolić. The next is the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović, and let the distinguished representative Sadik Ahmetović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21238	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, fellow MPs, honored guests, 30 I have a short question. It concerns BiH's obligation, or BiH's institutions, to rule on the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg. My question concerns this: - When will the PIO/MIO Federation of BiH respect the ruling relating to 38,000 pensioners who have the right to use pensions in the area of this entity? So when will this decision be respected? I assume that this issue could be referred through the competent Ministry of Human Rights to the PIO/MIO Fund to determine according to this judgment, i.e. to give an answer when this ruling will be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21239	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of Prodanović. The next is Honourable representative Sadik Ahmetović, and let the distinguished representative Branko Dokić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21240	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, my question concerns the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Civil Affairs. - I ask for urgent and detailed information on the possibilities and scales of abuse of the CIPS system, and the arrest of employees working on this project has been discovered. As far as this business is concerned, what is the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Agency for the Identification of Documents doing? How much damage this is doing to our path to the EU, visa liberalisation and trust in bh. institutions and who will be responsible for this?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21241	I thank the esteemed representative Ahmetović. The following has been reported by distinguished MP Branko Dokić, and may the distinguished representative Denis Bećirović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21242	Mr. Chairman, I have two questions. The first question was addressed to Mr Alkalaj, the foreign minister. So, I'm looking for an answer: - Why has diplomatic visas been issued in passports lately, so diplomatic passports for half a year? I note that it was always for a year before, and when visa relief came to us, then we in BiH seemed to have made it difficult for ourselves. That's one question. The second question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, and I would like that answer to be at the next session, the joint session of both homes, and it would read about this: - Is the Council of Ministers planning and, if it plans, how does it plan to decentralise state institutions in BiH? 31 I would like to remind you here – from here Mr Džaferović is present, there is no Raguž – we were at a study room in Germany and my question about how many state institutions Germany is outside Berlin, the answer was - as a rule they are outside Berlin. We know well, I would not now remind you of the situation with us, so I am not only speaking here from the point of view of Sarajevo – Banja Luka, or possibly Mostar, but generally: Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Zenica, Bihać, Tuzla, Mostar, Trebinje, Bijeljina, etc. etc. So this is the principle that democratic modern federal states have guaranteed in their legislation. So once again, I'd like to get an answer to this question at this joint session.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21243	I thank the esteemed representative Dokić. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Denis Bećirović, and may the distinguished representative Velimir Jukić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21244	I have one question. At one of the meetings of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, the question was asked: "When will the subject of Brcanska Malta be processed?" How come the MPs didn't get any answers to this question today, today I ask the question: - How far did this case come, or at what stage is the resolution of this case? I refer the question to the BiH Prosecutor's Office and seek the answer in writing. The rest of my right to other questions, I leave it to my esteemed counterpart, Bahtić, in hopes of intensifying the question in the next two years.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21245	I thank the esteemed representative Bećirović. The next is distinguished representative Velimir Jukić, and we no longer have any reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21246	Here, a very short question, I think it is current: - What does the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Central Election Commission, OSA, SIPA, the BiH Prosecutor's Office investigate the purchase of votes in the 5.10.2008 elections – local elections? I'll have a very brief explanation. These days and after the elections, at least I sit wherever I sit and talk to anyone, the inevitable topic is buying votes. I don't think we have the right to remain silent about this, and that these bodies and agencies are bound to do their jobs here, and I think they need to investigate this: whether there is any truth here, what is true, who did it, in this way, and in this way, radio-prohibited acts, or activities. I'll just point out that this is sanctioned by the laws and BiH as well as by the entity. I didn't call here, although it might have been necessary to include the prosecutions here at entity level, the MUPs, also at the level of the county and the prosecution and the MUPs. Because two days ago, the Electoral Commission published the results, the deadline for complaints is running, in a few days final results will be announced, and the question is 32 really legality and legitimacy of the elections and every mandate that has been elected in the way that votes have been bought. So far in the election process, at least I, I haven't heard you talk so much about this phenomenon, you show up buying votes, and I think, if it happened and happened, if you pass without sanctions that really BiH enters a new era when she, if she has money... democracy and what we want to build in BiH, free society, democratic society, and that the government is elected in free and democratic elections, and not by buying votes, and in particular by bringing in people of poor property that are ready, if they are ready, some may be, giving their voice to a political party, a candidate, etc., for, I don't know, some money, 100 marks, 200, as already mentioned, 300 etc. [[Disable microphone]] I think this should be investigated and these are listed in advance, in my opinion, mandatory and they should do this. If we just say there's no evidence, if there's no investigation and no access to it responsibly and seriously, then there's definitely not going to be any evidence. Niko one's coming to pick up, you know, I was paying someone to get me votes, etc. It'll never be.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21247	I thank the esteemed representative Jukić. No more reports. I'm closing this agenda. Moving to the third item of the agenda: Ad. 3. Proposal for a Code of Conduct for Representatives and Envoys – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigrants, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics (other reading) I remind you, as early as December 2007, at the 18th session of the House, the proposal for a code was adopted in the first reading. It's been in the process for a long time, therefore. Finally, on 17 October 2008, we received a report from the committee responsible after considering the Committee in the second phase. The report shall state the chronology of the examination. The commission, as you have seen, adopted eight amendments to the proposal for a code in the report. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: 33 Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH – Proposer: Joint Security and Intelligence Committee for the Control of the Work of the Intelligence and Security Agency (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21250	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, these two amendments come from our Joint Committee on Intelligence and Security Agency's work and this matter is, as far as I know, agreed on that committee, so there's no problem here. Both laws concern a very sensitive area, both the Intelligence and Security Agency, and the protection of classified information. Proposers of the original texts of the law, both the Intelligence and Security Agency Act and the Security of Secret Information Act and the Council of Ministers of BiH, should give their opinion on these two bills before we decide to vote on the laws in the first reading. I have information that the Security Ministry has sent a proposal for an opinion to the Council of Ministers on both laws, that the Council of Ministers should adopt its opinion now and inform Parliament. And I'd like to wait for a statement until we get a report from the Council of Ministers. I therefore propose that we postpone today's statement on both laws in first reading and wait for the Council of Ministers' opinion on these issues. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21251	The Council of Ministers' opinion has been requested on time, but we are not bound by the Council of Ministers' opinion. I'm just talking about the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Mirko Okolić, chairman of the commission proposed by this law. Here you go. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21252	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I will take a very short look at this bill that is before us and I will not say anything different from my colleague Džaferović who said that this is mostly a harmonised part of the amendment and addition of this law with the most relevant factors that treat this area, or this law. In your explanation, you will find that he is in agreement and that in the working group for making changes and supplementing these two laws he was also a representative of all those who should give their opinion. So he was also a representative of the Ministry of Security, the OSCE, the Ministry of Defence, then the OHR, EUFOR, NATO, and I don't think I skipped anyone, and this amendment and addition of these laws has been done, mainly, on a professional basis and consensus, by no means revote. As for the consent and opinion of the Council of Ministers, I am obliged to tell you that we in the Commission knew that it was a very sensitive matter and a very sensitive law, and we wanted nothing to leave the case despite their members being at these working meetings every time, working on these amendments and additions. This commission has concluded that the Commission's chairman and its co-workers are also meeting with the Minister of Security, meaning which one will give, if it should be given, an opinion through the Council of Ministers and we are at that meeting, on the general satisfaction and on one finding that it may be for the first time that the promoter with such one ministry that is competent finds – is Mr Sadović there?, is, eh, here he is, excellently, he will now confirm it – we have had this one meeting where we have all the things here: the amendments and additions of this law agreed. As far as relevant factors and domestic and international factors are concerned, there is no way that any decimal here is consistent. Therefore, it is one such addition to these... with which I agree that, eventually, it should be an opinion, but not binding, to say, and it will also confirm Mr Sadović now that after our meeting around these amendments and the additions of the law, and by one and by another, everything is clear and that we have worked it out and agreed and that we have really given in the procedure a law that has... been adopted in the form of amendments and additions to the proposal without any overvote but consensus, exclusively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21253	I thank the esteemed representative of Okolić. Since the next item of the agenda is very similar, and here I see already through the debate that MPs seem to be having such a unconscious discussion of both the one and the other proposal, I suggest that we discuss these two laws together. So points 4 and 5, if you agree? I see a nod from the bench, so we'll bring together a debate on points 4 and 5. Point five is Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Secret Information – Proposer: Joint Security and Intelligence Commission for the Control of the Work of the Intelligence and Security Agency (First Reading) 35 As before, this legislative proposal was submitted in the procedure of 23 September 2008. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of 17.10 also established the existence of a valid constitutional basis and that the draft law complies with the Constitution and the legal system. The opinion on the principles of the committee responsible also delivered on 21 October and the Commission accepted the principles of this draft law. Here, we have united the debate on both laws. The next one was the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21255	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree to bring the debate together, although these two laws are separate. The Security and Security Agency Act does not treat, nor does it have anything to do with practically, under the alleged signs, with the Ministry of Security, and this other one is fully in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Security. But let me expand a little bit, and I'll be as brief as possible, just reminding my colleagues that we've come to this stage. So, back last year, somewhere at this time, Mr. Lozančić, as vice chairman, proposed amendments and additions to both laws. So later, of course, since he is a member of this committee where Mr. Okolić is the chairman, where I am a member – he accepted that it be the Commission's proposal. And I'm not going to say now that we've been pulling this bill for a year, under alleged signs, and both of these laws, but really, if we've done anything and if we've dedicated ourselves, then we've dedicated ourselves to doing both of these laws the right way. Of course, there was a group working here, and we were always on the Commission giving comments, returning, correcting and achieving, in the end, one consensus, where there was really no dispute, or even one for other laws where there was something entity, where this one wasn't. These are two laws at ground level. No political party, MP, this one, had a chance; he had the possibility but he did not behave like that to represent this or that now; because this issue is important to the security of this country. And I said in some other debates: a man will suffer to be hungry, but to be insecure, he and his child will not. So we did a good job and Mr. Okolić said there was no problem. Whoever was connected somewhere, we consulted him. Both NATO and every international organisation, they participated, made proposals on how to be democratic laws, how, and here we ended up. Of course, since they're in the first reading phase, everyone has an opportunity to try the amendment. I don't plead to say now that this is the best solution. Maybe someone will find something that doesn't answer. But I think for the first time, this commission has done two legal projects. And since we've united both points, I'm going back to this other law to protect classified information. There was a big change, because we were really in an absurd situation. Not defending myself as members of the Commission, but as colleagues and in Parliament, I did not allow ourselves to be humiliated, to carry out checks, not underestimating, of course, the operational workers working in that 36 service, to carry out the checks on the MPs, and we oversee them. And everyone checks us out alive, there'd be nothing if they hadn't checked us out. And, since this isn't a session where I have a major word, in my name, what happens when he wants to wash? These days, who's been reading the paper, the whole crowd, the affair -- how is it possible that I, who didn't pass a security check and can't work at the Intelligence and Security Agency, am now controlling these people. But no one wonders what I am, here's the simplest thing, driven out of that service, gunned down! I'm in a hurry because I appeared in public and criticized the then mugging authority that was in the RS. I couldn't go out on the media, and thank Bog, they flew on me, too, so I wouldn't mention that Mikerevic thief in every variant, in every variant, in public speaking, right here. __________? [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, I respect PDP. But he's not a PDP, even Ivanić said to me, "Glory, you're not touching us, okay, so let's go." But I'm not good at leading the line with you, I'll do it later. So that's it. The other thing, what did they challenge me in court? How could I, as a RS Intelligence Inspector, appear in public? Well, because it suits them, which no one should have shown up to say, but any silent-mouse system, the Nightingale is going to push it public, and it's going to be a little tight and that story is going to start! I've never been warned orally, I'm not being punished, not having a criminal or criminal record. All right. Let the media question it, so I'll give them an explanation. So, we did a big thing, and now I see the misunderstanding again. Neither of us will any MP have the opportunity to access any information on these three grounds, confidentially, in secret and very secret. Only if he needs any information that's within the scope of his work or any work he's doing as an MP, so he needs information, he'll have a right. And there's a competent security minister who'll give the permits. Of course the minister will give the permits for one of these three degrees. So what do we want now? We wanted for the first time to put ourselves in a position to really bring Parliament, if it makes laws, if they have given us the trust of citizens, that we do not humiliate ourselves. Respecting the people who work in that service and always supporting them, as well as other security agencies, and the SIPAs and the Border Police, this country is safe compared to others. It's just that the people here, all kinds of isolated cases, they're everywhere. When I look at those strangers, every ambassador says, "Get away, they're beating your people up over there, you're telling us about democracy!" So, what did we want? We wanted to make really two laws that would put security in place for every citizen and man, not for protecting us, as the media will write: behold, the MPs gave themselves the right to see every information. That won't be possible either. So, if he's looking for a job, where someone's gonna need some data, under the permission of a minister who's gonna issue a permit there, he's gonna be able to access that data. So there's the main thing, and there's nothing else. Of course, this second technical sector, like I've been making statements for the last 15 days: is 37 listening to aunt, Nana, Grandma, this one, and when will there be an anthem text? Just those two things... I can't live with any more journalists or the people who call me - "Glory, do they listen?" They're listening! Now they will, I heard, telecom operators suing me for harming them. And that's true. No more thief, a criminal can buy 100 cards today at five marks, so he sends me threatening messages and just throws away the card. His voice frequency, his voice color will be recorded, so let him call from Mr. Lozančić's phone, and he knows it's him if he gives him Mr. Lozančić! Don't give him the phone, I won't give him the phone. So, this is not a cartoon statement but a serious process that we've been conducting in the Commission, we've really brought laws, I'm not going to say perfection, nothing is perfect, but it's up to optimal functioning, to put the Intelligence and Security Agency in office so that it really responds to its tasks and intentions. And of course, this second law that is fully in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Security, and we gave support to the Minister then. I don't think the minister had any objections about what we did, either, because everything, people, is in our place that BiH and the people, and we, of course, are safe. Any law that goes in that direction, I will immediately support it, whether we delay it for another five days, ten, next session, it's less important, but they are, they will only contribute to the people, I repeat, being safe. And here I may not reveal the secret, I'm proud that the obavještajan Security Agency is ours, which we've given maximum support to. Of course, there's Mr. Lozančić, all of us on the team, Mr. Chairman, which has done the great thing about this last event in Knights. They gave the data first. And I don't reveal any secrets. I'm proud. And if it were another state, so it would be on all the media, it would be sent to the agency, and it's always going to humiliate us, and they're doing listening there, this, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that's how we always end up. So, these laws, dear colleagues, read, you have an opportunity for amendments, but I think they're good. Even if they are not, if you think so, there is not a single Scriptures, the Kur'An and the Bible that we will not change it. But for this stage, in my opinion, they're the best. I mean, if nothing else, by filling, I understand these jobs, so here's my modest contribution and in that, and they will contribute to establishing this structure that will be the most important, I repeat, for the security of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21257	I thank the honourable representative. A distinguished representative, Momčilo Novaković, applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to admit that I tried, first, to find out something about the principles in Mr. Jovičić's discussion, and I couldn't find anything. Secondly, I've been trying to find a connection between these two laws and the thieving authorities, and I haven't been able to find it either. You see, Mr. Jovičić, as you fought against the thieving power, today we are fighting a criminalized thieving power. So it's going round and round. You guys fight a little bit, so we're a little bit out there fighting that thieving power. I must say, very often saw you on 38 RS televisions back then, not as a fighter against criminalised authority, but as vice president of the association, I must say, much more often than you see me on the RS Public TV service. It's about the freedom of the media you were talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21259	Honorable representative Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21260	Dear friend Novaković, neither did I mention you nor did I say that you were in that structure of authority that I criticized, but a man by the name and last name that is constantly mentioned. Did anyone hear me mention it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21261	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21262	And you were in power back then. Then I didn't mention you, you weren't valid, you were the one who ran the government. I mentioned him and I'm doing the same thing today, because people have already forgotten him. So I wasn't saying then who was in the structures of the government, but I know what I was saying. And today I'm going to repeat every word, it wasn't 100 years ago. And I didn't give up, because I was right. I didn't attack any of the parties. No party, no people are guilty. Individuals with a name and a last name were doing this or that, and they were like that, so I said earlier. So it's a relationship. Another thing, like, a relationship about principles? Well, these are all principles. How did we get to them? We wanted to relax completely the atmosphere that you don't have the opportunity, not you, but anyone, to be investing a lot of amendments so this doesn't go away, because it's very important for us to pass. We're under pressure from the NATO Pact, we're under pressure by everyone. Here, to respond to their and their tasks. So that's what I explained. And secondly, what I was saying about my personal self-inflicted, that's what I said on purpose, because I'm expecting 20 journalists now who are going to ask me, who forgot, to explain it to them, because I really don't want to justify myself, but that was the case. So, in order for me to sit here in Parliament and be a member of that committee, to supervise, if I had what they said, I was hired. For what? Say it! But, okay. It's my private right. So, Mr. Novaković, I didn't mention you at all. I even forgot that you were in power back then with what I mentioned earlier. Sometimes I'm sick of mentioning it two or three times. That's enough once.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21263	Thank you. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Selim Bešlagić. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21264	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and fellow guests, I must say that I am fascinated by uniqueness, I would say, members of the Commission on the preparation of this law. I mean, we really don't have any arguments, and that's why I was surprised if you were still asking for the Council of Ministers' consent but they didn't deliver, and the status doesn't oblige us to have it. I think it would be good for these laws to go in first reading. In our first reading and then to leave the Council of Ministers and to the MPs that, possibly, we act on amendments. Why am I saying that? I speak for one simple reason. Even if we do something today, people of God, which is worth something! Here, for the first time, I am pleased, let me say, to the members of the Commission who have expressed their position, starting with the chairman and all the members, that these are laws that have been harmonised and that are not exactly what happens here all the time. For these reasons, my proposal would be, I would ask Mr. Džaferović, if there is no significant explanation, to allow us to go in first reading with both laws and then, during the time that comes, the amendment phase and, with the Council of Ministers' statement, to adopt these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21265	Thank you. Dear Representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21266	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, in my first report, I did not want to get into the essence of the matter, expecting that there would be an understanding for this proposal to await the Council of Ministers' position. I guess I'm going to have to say a few sentences now, maybe open the whole debate, but here's the debate for it. So, the essence of both of these laws, they lean on each other, they bond at certain points, as regards security checks and newspapers in these laws, concerns us here, MPs at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the essence of these laws, among other things, is that the MPs of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes are excluded from this security verification system. I didn't want to say that, not wanting to open a debate. BiH is a state that has concluded numerous international agreements and does not depend on us here in BiH whether MPs will be subject to security checks or not subject to security checks by some members, members of some commissions. To be precise, BiH has obligations towards access to classified information, the NATO Treaty and other other international institutions have concluded a contract with BiH and it would be very free to adopt the law today in the first reading before we get a serious and responsible position of the Council of Ministers on the issue. That's it. That's why I've suggested that today delay the statement of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21267	Dear Representative Velimir Jukić. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21268	Here, I'll do it very briefly. I was a member of this Joint Supervisory Committee in that previous meeting, and at that time this law was passed, and these laws were already being considered and the sessions were also talking about the bad decisions in this law, namely in these laws and one of them, it was almost unanimously said that this particular section concerning the checks of members of the Joint Committee. I think this proposed solution is good and not only that but also other solutions and that we need to support this. Just here, for a reminder, would I give an example of how important it is, however, that someone has direct electoral legitimacy? The U.S. Attorney is elected directly. The D.A.! And now, who should check out the one elected directly by the citizens, unless there's a court thing, I don't know either, that about someone, that they've already been prosecuted, etc. Otherwise, what better and better way to get to a position than a direct choice? And now we should leave me a solution that, I don't know, I'm also checking up on those people. Of course, those who are authorized under the law to do checks can do checks and if they find something in someone and the chosen one, and directly elected, should do their job, again through the prosecution and courts, etc. And yet there's a seizure, of course, if there's a reason, an argument, a suspension of office. However, to say immediately at the outset: 'E, now we need to further check', I don't think that's good and that this solution that is proposed in this law is a much better solution and I think we should support it. And I just called to support this solution. I believe that it is good and better and that it is on the trail of the solution of most European countries, most of them.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21269	I thank the esteemed representative Jukić. The following has been reported to the esteemed representative Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21270	I thank you, Mr. President. Here, just one, maybe two sentences. So what we have heard from those who have prepared this law, so they have consulted all relevant institutions and they have reached agreement on the principle, for me it is a very important thing and it is very important that we support this law in the first reading. And another thing. Respectfully, I respect what Mr. Džaferović is saying, but there is another dimension here. This parliament should work alone on its own credibility and dignity. And the prepared representatives of the Ministry of Security have been consulted, meaning the competent ministry, there were no negative reactions. Comparative experiences in countries, the most developed democratic countries in Europe, those that are the standard of democracy, Norway, Germany, have these experiences. And now we in Parliament have an opportunity to adopt it, and now we wait for someone who has already had the opportunity and the duty to report whether they will return. I'm not, just for that reason, and I think that for these very principled reasons, we need to support this today.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21271	I thank the esteemed representative Raguž. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21272	Mr. Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21273	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, we have here two draft laws that are the fruit of the work of MPs. After these two, we're going to have another law that's also a fruit of work for the MPs. And after that, we don't have the law anymore, and we didn't have the law before this. So we have the work of this Parliament as the sole consequence of the parliamentary initiative. I'm not talking about the quality of the solution right now. If we still choke on that parliamentary initiative, I'm afraid we'll wait five or six months to see each other at all, we'll forget about it. So let this be understood by all the members of the Council of Ministers, and those from my party and those from all your parties, as one assessment of their engagement and the responsibility we all carry because of that condition. And now I'm going to talk about the laws a little bit. Someone has already said, I launched last year, proposed amendments and additions to one, or both of these laws, and then, in the competent commission, I was asked to withdraw those proposals, because the will and willingness to enter into a more comprehensive review of both laws and in a more comprehensive amendment and addition of both laws was expressed. I've accepted it, normally, very gladly, because my insides and then and now it's that we have better quality legal solutions. And I have to say, in this committee that is proposing both of these laws, results have been achieved by the absolute consensus of all members of the Committee. And let me remind you, there are representatives of all parties to the parliamentary majority and representatives of the opposition. So, the commission is like that, at the head of the commission is a member of an opposition party. The drafting of these proposals was attended by all those who were numbered by the chairman of the Committee and representatives of the resolution ministries, i.e. the services that work on the application of these laws and who are experienced in saying whether certain solutions are good or bad, representatives of international organisations who could also say what is in line with European standards, which is not, which is in line with democratic standards, which is not. And all of this is in a democratic and constructive debate, with no raised tones, discussed, accepted and, after a year, a solution that is a consensus. If there is a need after that to delay a plea in the first reading of this law, I don't mind. Let's just ask ourselves: who's going to tell someone else tomorrow, when they're more complex solutions about which there's no consensus, when they're looking for a delay in the plea, because, you know, there's a problem. There's no difference here. I don't really see any essential, no political, no other reason, no business, which is why we would delay the statement in the first reading. I'm talking about the principle of our work. To be honest, nothing will change drastically unless we adopt these laws. Unfortunately, I wish we had a lot of other laws we don't have, but we don't have them, we have these we have. So nothing's going to happen dramatically, it's going to continue to function normally, but this is, 42 I'm convinced, improving both of these legal proposals, both laws, improving. No law is perfect. If they were perfect, there probably wouldn't be... a change of law. Here, in that sense, I call, respecting the explanation he gave, the respected representative Džaferović. I call on him to withdraw his proposal for a conclusion on the postponement of a plea which does not dispute any of us or from you the right to, in the second reading, in the amendment phase, to make your contribution and to further correct these laws, by additional proposals, or amendments and additions. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21275	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I did not dispute with my discussion the consensus reached in the Joint Commission. I know that in that commission there are representatives of all the political parties here, it is one important and important commission and it is represented representatively, I would say, from here on out of this house and to me it is all quite clear. But I don't understand one thing that makes me point out this proposal today, waiting for this matter to be clarified. Will this law and the reduction of the number of persons subject to a security check violate BiH's contractual relations under the Law on the Protection of Secret Information when it comes to accessing classified information, and will BiH interfere on its path of European and NATO integration? That's the question I'm asking the Council of Ministers and I'm going to say right now. If so, and this is not up to us, we have contractual relations with NATO, BiH has only one step to NATO candidacy!? Now, there are, of course, long international organisations with which we have contracts, I just want to get an answer to that question, nothing more, I think we all care about that question here and that none of us are ready to make any move that will make this country a problem tomorrow, so that we need to sit down again and change the law. So that's the essence of what I was going to say. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21276	Thank you. The following has been reported to the esteemed representative Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21277	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, it may be good to have some more questions, before the minister answers, that I may arrive in one wave. I, of course, will agree with the chairman on this environment of droughts around legal projects and agree completely that everything should be done as of course, I am convinced, that the chairman did not think that because of this drought of legal projects we should make it easy to adopt very important laws. I fully share the view that it is two very important projects of enormous importance and that we should see well what is in these laws. I also agree that the laws carry with them an exceptional quality contribution in respect of 43 violations of the law. First of all, I think of the fact that the issue of keeping the confidentiality of the information of another country, the international regional organisation, where it is stated, when it comes to this data, is that all persons are subject to security checks regardless of who it is. So there's no concern of this kind about our international agreements. The improvement is also the introduction of an industrial security permit and thus the resolution of a single issue that is very important for our economic operators and behaviour and behaviour, and thus bringing to a certain level with European and NATO standards. The position of this Joint Commission for the Control of the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency in view of that it is no longer a second-degree body, which was not appropriate, etc. etc. And this second law, which termologically introduces the position of the Commission, is all very important quality improvements and I really welcome and appreciate the efforts of these people who have made a great effort and done a good job. What interests me is that both the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Defence and the European Police Mission, the NATO Pact, the OSCE, etc., have been consulted. I'm interested in how and are they really consulted on everything? That's one thing. And secondly, the key question that I really want to clear up is to keep the reserve. It is said that from now on, the data of all degrees of secrecy will have MPs and delegates of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, of course only those required to carry out their duties. And the key question here is: Who is this and how will it be determined that this information is necessary for an MP to perform his duty? Believe me, any information I ask for I can present that I need it to carry out my duty. That is, there is no information in BiH that I cannot bring into the relevant relationship with the performance of my duty. It's a very delicate position. For these reasons, whether in the second reading, to specify, to clarify, decidently state the procedure, whether to wait for a statement by the Council of Ministers on how it will be resolved and what it means, I am holding that reserve, because I see this very delicate possibility of coming into the misunderstanding zone. So, it can be improved either in the second reading by the amendment – by precision, or to wait for the Council of Ministers to declare how it can be clarified in the first reading, and in that sense I think there is also the initiative of our club and Mr. Džaferović, etc. You will agree that the question is very appropriate and that we can really expect a problem here. We don't need to reverse the data-preservation procedure, handling classified information, with this quality of the law. We need to improve it, and with all these improvements, and this can be an improvement if it's precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21278	I thank the esteemed representative Halid Genjac. And the esteemed representative Jovičić came forward. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21279	I agree with Mr. Genjac's presentation, but there's only one explanation for the press. So, we didn't want to -- I apologize to my colleagues, I don't want to humiliate anyone, of course, because I'm in this group -- to protect ourselves like in that system so that we can be protected as bug bears, not that. Two are fundamental differences. When we come to the list of candidates for MPs, the checks are done by the Election Commission, SIPA, I don't know who, and it will continue, once we've been elected to Parliament, to have access to one of these three visions. That's right, in many democratic countries, we've asked around. And visited some countries that do. We wanted to give rise to this House who actually passed all these laws. I said what's the difference, I didn't care that much, because I was their colleague, so the operatives are checking me out now that everyone's been checking me out and they're gonna check me out again, and they're gonna do it without us. But also on the Commission, as far as I'm concerned, I speak for myself, I'm not interested in any information, not confidential, not secret, not top secret, not very secret, not one. The more I know, the more my head hurts, the more I don't need any information. And besides, to be honest with ourselves, honestly, this is a country, however we make the law, that two people have access, it's no longer a secret. Only one who has a character can keep a secret. Since they know two, three, there's no secret. And what's the secret in this country? What could be a secret and protected something so we could jeopardize the security system, the Constitution, I don't know what? What would that be, what approach? This country is full of spies, I don't know who comes from on the side, we don't know anything. So, what did we want? We wanted to give the first reading an improvement that I think is good. Here's a chance to get into the next phase, and I already said in that exhibit, when Mr. Lozančić gave these initiatives, you got it. I explained it as much as I knew it, we accepted them as a commission, and we didn't do them for 15 days, but here's a year. Every session of this was: how, what's better, with the main goal of putting the security of the citizens and this country at a higher level! How licenses will be issued, who will decide, because someone has the right to access classified, secret, very secret information. That's another thing, you won't be able to use the key in your pocket to get into the office where those data are stored. There'll be a code on the door, there'll be a photo, there'll be a print. Well, ask every colleague, no matter who has the courage and courage to go looking for secret information when they'll record it all there. What's he gonna be able to pull in his hand and bring out so no one can see, right? I don't scare you, but you're not going to make any of them want to know what's in that office at all. So, we don't need to be scared, people, so we're normal people, but let's bring this in the interest of the security of citizens and of the country, not us. So that tomorrow the press doesn't write that we're just protecting ourselves, we're taking ourselves out of this, it's not true. When we've already checked everyone alive by the time we got on the list, why now to do someone again, let's do the checks again, and not in the sense that I can't see the confidential data, and every reporter here behind my back, which I highly appreciate, has more and more confidential data than I have come from that service. And I can't get rid of it, I know it, so I say enough, I'm not that anymore, I'm an apostle.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21280	The name of the applicant was given to clarification by the distinguished representative Mirko Okolić. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21281	This way, I can't really get the impression that in this assembly of ours, if we want to make any shift, that we're ready to mine it right now and that we can prove that many are right when they say - there's nowhere near the number of laws that should be passed in order to be able to monitor as much as possible the EU's approach. So now I'm going to look back on just a few things in this law whose principles are most important, which is what we need to support or not support today, in line with EU and NATO principles. This is a condition for us to join the EU for the future. We passed this law in 2004, and unanimously. I looked at it on the document, unanimously, and it could have been proposed at that time either way, it would have also been brought probably unanimously, with one abstention, because in this matter as a new matter and because it was believed to these people what they were doing – they believed that it was good and so accepted. However, as time goes on, it comes to the fact that the law, both one law and another, needs to be modified in terms of what needs to be corrected to comply with EU and NATO principles. And every law needs to be upgraded and this is the upgrade of this part of the law, which I think may not have all read the full law but simply read these amendments and additions, so in that sense, they are in doubt. So I'm going to say specifically later on, let's say, access to classified information needs to be read and that other part of the text that doesn't change in the Secret Data Protection Act, so see what the criteria are and how strict they are and how it's not exactly true and it's not true that everyone can get to every data. So there's got to be a reason, an explanation, a written, a signature, that you received, a return. There's this thing that's written in that part of the law that we're not changing right now. However, this is not just about allowing covert information to be accessed by the MPs of both homes. Of course, with these conditions that I said, they have no right to all approaches but only from the work they're dealing with, but it's about other very important things. If there were any problems here so far, and I'm going to tell you before that, and I repeat that in the amendment and addition of this law, the most professional people in the working group worked on several occasions, the representatives of the institutions that I'm going to name and that we didn't allow it to be a revote at all, is that it's a profession? No Srbin, Bošnjak, Hrvat, SDS-ovac, PDP-ovac, SNSD-ovac, or SBiH, etc. should be declared here. Here we have concluded that this is really a profession that needs to be done as best possible at this given moment. The most classed lawyers and acquaintances of this matter were both from the Ministry of Security, from the OSCE, from the Ministry of Defence, from the OHR and NATO, and... none of the things at the end came unanimity, nor outvoted, nor did we raise our hands and say - who is for this proposal and who is not, but it's the law, it's something we can't outvote. There have been consultations in the process of making changes and supplementing these proposals and there have been returns to agree, say NATO and the OSCE, our NATO and the Ministry of Defence with some stance, NATO and the Ministry of Security of our own or the Ministry of Security and the OSCE, then the OSCE and the Ministry of Defence. And people have managed to bring it all together. Of course, someone in some parts gave in, someone in some parts got in, and they came up with a unique attitude that was then just embedded in this text. Furthermore, from all these representatives, everyone... gave their positive opinion. If there were any reactions from the international community, from some of our institutions, so my people, today we would have at least ten media outlets of various calibers writing about how it was reacted and how it shouldn't be done 46 and how else it should be done. Here, you saw, when Mr. Lozančić made his own motion that it would be the one to propose amendments and amendments to the law, that before the session was even scheduled. Here, now you see that there is no reaction, I'm telling you that there will certainly not be any reaction from these institutions that I've said. Is this about some other essential thing that, besides what's changing, changes, let's say, complaints from people who don't pass a security check,...no country in the world has that. And that's that whoever doesn't get access to classified information complains to our commission, to the parliamentary commission, who is now under no jurisdiction to enter every file, every act, etc. And see if he received it in time, whether the Ministry sent him mail in time, etc. Some details. And life goes, we have as many as you want people who have complained, etc. And it's impossible, the nonsension is that this committee of legislative character does it. Furthermore, the nonsensus, we've visited, we've been to Brussels both Norway and Slovakia and Germany, and there's nowhere to see if there's any country in which they have a different view. Everyone said and everyone gave us the data, backed up the paperwork that it was, and we're just the principles. So these principles of the EU are also fully respected by NATO standards when it comes to this. Next, we have something that's not even covered by this law, and every day it can cost us, I don't know, and life and billions or millions of marks. And that's industrial security that wasn't touched at all in that past law. Now we have tried hard to put into this law what was possible at this given moment, and we have given something to this law to further and regulate the Council of Ministers through the Ministry of Security. I think the principles, as far as the principles of this law are concerned, must be respected and can be accepted in the first reading. In the amendment phase, whoever wants, let him put the amendments on, let him challenge this part, etc. if he thinks there's gonna be a problem. We'll see, we'll wait for the reaction and all our domestic institutions, we'll wait for the reaction of international institutions. But it's too bad. It doesn't mean anything to me at all, I was the first one to say, "Here, I want my check done right now." A lot of people said, "Why should someone check on me, where I keep an eye on me?" No, I want for myself what I'd be chairing those committees if I didn't have permission to access the highest level of classified information. And the first I did it, I got that license and this suits me, now the rest of you don't, you just have access... to me here as something, as a match. However, I do not agree with the overall state of what today-to-morrow to respond to the public: Why is one law which has been thoroughly prepared a year by MPs, which has included in the preparation of all relevant factors, has fallen? ...except that it's a political game and that we in this House will, apparently, not adopt anything. Oh, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21282	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. Honorable Minister and Chairman of the Council of Ministers Tarik Sadović. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21283	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, what this distinguished home is today debated is the matter of an extremely delicate law, with which this country met over a relatively short period of time and whose implementation is actually expected in the next few years. When you look at the general idea of the Law on the Protection of Secret Information, it is actually the introduction of a security culture into all the structures of society and state and it is a process that will certainly take years. Of course, this law as it was adopted was probably not good in some of its solutions and that the practice of applying that law shows that it should be changed in certain things. The committee responsible is responding to a parliamentary debate, to the idea of one MP or more of them, trying to resolve certain things and, behold, I certainly welcome this kind of parliamentary initiative, because I, as an MP, loved that kind of engagement, because it speaks of the interest of MPs to change certain things. Although this is still the first law reading, it seems to me that there have been some misunderstandings. I'd like to try to clear them up. Of course, the Council of Ministers has not yet adopted an opinion on this law, although that opinion, here and that it has adopted it, ultimately does not have to be a relevant thing. Parliament can pass the law, although the Council of Ministers' opinion is completely negative. In that sense, so I'm expressing the reserve. The Ministry of Security, as a resolute ministry, which is responsible for implementing this law, consisting of a state security authority or a secret data protection sector, has made that opinion and sent it to the Council of Ministers. Here, the fundamental problem was, in fact, the exemption from security checks and obtaining security permits for MPs in Parliament, i.e. MPs and delegates in both homes. It's 57 people. The arguments for one story and another story certainly exist. In this regard, the parliamentary commission has indeed come to me and to my associates, and we have conducted a quality debate, in which we have made arguments for and against. But I'd like to do one thing again. We as the Ministry, there is nothing in this law that is disputed for us except for this key matter, which is the verification of MPs, or delegates, for the reason we have signals. So that's what the people of NATO and the EU have already told us. So they're inspecting our security authority. So people come and tell you that. I also trust the parliamentary commission that it has collated certain NATO experts, from the EU, etc. And that people might have told them: it's okay that you do what you do because it's a practice in some European countries as well. But then it's, believe me, about the double channel, the double standard, because our information that we as the Ministry have received and these information that the parliamentary commission has told us is completely opposite. I can show you an agreement between BiH and the EU on security procedures for the exchange of confidential information this Parliamentary Assembly has ratified. This is the 2006 Agreement, which I quote in Article 7, provides: 'The Parties will ensure' (and the parties are BiH and the EU)... that all persons who have access to or whose duties or functions may allow access to classified information, delivered or 48 exchanged in accordance with this Agreement, are adequately verified before they are granted access to such information.' So this is a fairly clear agreement between BiH and the EU. Of course, we signed, the Council of Ministers with NATO, also an Agreement on the Security of Information which is quite restrictive and what I repeat: that their inspections and their signals were that you should not extend the circle of people who are not subject to security checks. So, we'll meet here in front of a dilemma. This is a bit of an unpleasant dilemma for me and, believe me, I'm asking you to understand me that way. So, as a representative of the Ministry, the most responsible representative of the Ministry who will implement these matters, it is my duty and obligation to warn you of the possible consequences of adopting such a law, possible consequences. I would like, therefore, and I think that would be a perfectly reasonable approach, that a high-level parliamentary delegation, from the people who say this parliament, actually carry out further consultations. No one's gonna lose or win anything. With NATO, if necessary, and Brussels to go, with the EU, etc. to solve this issue. And if they really stand at the point that parliamentarians should not pass security checks, I am for it, I will enforce this law whatever you adopt. But here, I want to tell you that I am in the capacity of Deputy Chairman and Minister of Security to whom many of these services were subordinated I passed that security check to get a security clearance for access to data very secretly, which lasted several months. So the question is, among other things, rhetorically, who's going to sign my security clearance? I was signed by my head of security, so my subordinate, my assistant in my ministry. But it's a simple matter of security clearance, bringing you into a vicious circle, who's going to check on who. Here I am, with all these dilemmas, with all the arguments I've made and heard and heard, etc. I have expressed one concern that things may not have been fully clarified by the parliamentary commission or that they may not have spoken at a sufficiently high level. Here, maybe I'm wrong. I'm asking for further consultations, but whatever you decide, it's up to me to enforce the law and implement the decisions that you make. And of course, I would like to inform you that in the Ministry's work plan and in the context of a twinning project that we are working together with our Czech friends, we are also preparing amendments and additions to the Code on the Protection of Secret Information that should be reunited with this Parliament in a few months' time, where we would actually comply with the existing law with EU directives and NATO standards. Here, I hope I've been helpful in trying some dilemmas to resolve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21284	I thank the Honorable Minister. Dear Representative Mirko Okolić reported on the replica. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21285	Look, I'm going through the replica to Mr. Secretary to try something else and explain that there is no confusion and delusion. When it comes to checks, or when it comes to abolishing checks for MPs, this applies only to the national level. That we're clear right now. This has nothing to do with accessing EU, NATO, or other organisations. That's why you get special permits with a protocol agreement that's signed and that's what that's all about. For these national, as far as they're concerned, the direct question was us and by them the answer: As far as we're concerned, you give it to everyone, that's your business! Let's move on. So, don't mix those two checks because it has nothing to do with each other. I who have now received a check or who will be freed tomorrow by this law, I have no right to access NATO with classified information until I submit a request for approval and permission, and I will get as their procedure requires. So it's a separate thing. He says there's some data that's going to be given to the faces before, after they've been checked out. Well, of course, it's meant for persons who haven't been checked, and the persons that are legally free will not even be checked. But this again applies, as Mr. Minister has said, to the international secret information available to NATO, the EU or someone else. He says he needs to go to Brussels. I agree - to Brussels. Your representative was with us in Slovakia for the last time. We purposely put it in the parliamentary commission to be as executive authority, when it is as the head of the sector, to see how it is in Slovakia, in a country that is in transition, which has been the last to get over the goddesses and which was also a condition to enter the EU, because in the first round it has not entered, because its experiences can help us more than the experiences of Great Britain, Germany, France, which were founded by the EU. They didn't need it then, but they did. There isn't, gentlemen dear, anywhere, we say there's a check on the MPs, and by the one we control, people say that's weird and funny. Furthermore, I am responsibly standing and, behold, in front of parlament, and this is recorded, that in the work of amendments and additions to this proposal, a NATO representative who is responsible for what he has done and who we have asked: Are you behind this as an institution? We're standing. Furthermore, as chairman of the Commission, I referred our conclusion to NATO, here are my colleagues who are here in the Commission, a memo to delegate their people to the drafting and supplementing of these proposals. You know what they did? In the first round, two were delegated. The other day, there's a letter here asking if there's two more. Come on, you can, I said, although it's not operational, it's hard to do it, but let it go, don't think anything. Day three, can he send three more of his personal associates? I said yes, come on. At first, we had about five or six NATO representatives who followed this issue so closely to see that it was not something beyond their principles. And when people saw that that's what they want and what they're forcing us to do to get close to NATO, there was Mr. Dario Šikujak, whose name I now mention, who is behind this, who is an authorised representative of NATO and can't tell me that NATO suspects anything. I know that some have spoken to individuals from NATO in some personal perhaps stories where someone didn't like it or at any seminars off the record, but this is official. 50 And the proof of that, I knew that it might be so, so we at the Commission said, every working group record exists, every presence exists, every discussion and every decision stands in the record of the working group when it comes to making and supplementing this, starting with NATO, EUFOR, the OSCE, our institutions. So we don't need to mix up what's on the national level and what's not there. And in the end, we've visited these countries, the key ones we've visited, through other means, services, etc. And we've come up with information on whether there's anything else or not. Now, I don't know if I'm wrong or not, but this last thing the minister said, and the two of us talked about it, and we agreed on it, and then I talked to Miletić, and now I'm a little surprised, and we'll probably get a positive opinion from the Council of Ministers, and if we don't get it, then it doesn't matter, I'm surprised what he said, which I can draw one conclusion from: don't beat me to it, or don't beat us to it, because then our law knows how to go, etc. Here you see, the last one was yours, Mr. Minister - we are also preparing changes and additions to this law, so it might not be a good idea for you to do anything right now, to do it, to adopt it, wait for us to be our promoters. So we don't suffer from it, and we don't suffer, people, but this law is such that it has to be done immediately; you supplement it, build it, suggest it, perfect it, have time before us, perfect it now even better, we'll accept it here if it's even better. After all, maybe it's something we didn't cover, and you're going to include but we need... security as soon as possible. We have to, because we're going to have huge problems, solving complaints from a second-degree body that we're working extra-constitutionally for people who don't have the consent to access classified information, they're complaining to us. And many more questions about compliance in this law with other principles and EU and NATO standards. Eh, I would like it now, I would like you once again: and if there is any law that we have put on the agenda, and they have not, if they had any objections, responded immediately to the international community, from OHR and beyond, the means of information, etc. Here, give me now the official response of any international institution or any domestic institution, I accept it immediately. As far as I'm concerned, I don't need this law at all. I'm more comfortable with the old one. But I'm saying it doesn't answer to this parliament, that it doesn't answer to BiH, that it doesn't answer to its citizens and that it doesn't answer to us at all because there's nothing we can do in this assembly that seems to agree and adopt. And we have a deadline, until the second reading, for the amendment to be fixed. I don't mind, here, let the amendments be made immediately, or let MPs be excused for checking, etc. But when all these things are seen, then you will see, take a look and see in which countries the messengers are freed, in which countries they are not, so you will see that there is no land yet... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21286	I thank the esteemed representative of Okolić. I don't have any more, or he's got a respected representative, Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21287	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I signed up electronically. I thank the minister, Mr. Sadović. 51 I think it was useful what he told us here what the Ministry is doing and what practice it is. But he did, and that's why I answered, and I said one thing which is actually the basis of this whole story, which is, in his words, the vicious circle between the service and the ministry, the minister to whom both the legislator and who is there. I think there should be no doubt here, not here, but in every democratic society Parliament is above all and beyond that vicious circle. And here's the point of the story. In fact, I'm afraid and I don't want to question this with the Ministerial debate, but I'm afraid that's the essence of political concepts in approach to how this country will be arranged. And this is a very serious question and I cannot understand the MPs who avoid this role of Parliament and transfer it to executive or other power... in democratic terms, I say this in a democratic sense. And to me, this is too serious a matter for us to move this easily just to question whether or not the Council of Ministers will deliver that opinion to us. It is actually a principled political issue that we need to determine here, because it does not exist above this Parliament, not just above this, for every country, for every society it holds to itself, only Bog above this Parliament can exist in terms of democratic structure and control and the trio of power, who exerts influence and control over it. So, ultimately, this country will have a chance if this parliament chooses people in a way that they match their voters and the public according to the Constitution, not some centres of power and services. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21288	I thank the esteemed representative Raguž. Now, at this point, I'm no longer registered and I'm closing the debate on points 4 and 5. And we're going to the sixth item of the agenda: "Ad." Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Central Bank of BiH – Proposer: Representative Milorad Živković, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission (constitutional basis) and Opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget (rules) On 8 October 2008, Honored counterpart Živković submitted the draft law amending and supplementing the Central Bank of BiH Act to the procedure. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 17 October. The Constitutional Commission found by majority the votes that the bill did not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. The Financial and Budget Committee is relevant. The opinion on the principles of the committee concerned delivered on 21 October. On 21 October, the Commission for Finance and Budget submitted its opinion on the principles of the proposed law. The commission, as you have seen, did not accept the principles of the bill most of the votes. 52 Now I will remind you of the provision of Article 107. Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives shall be governed by the procedure when the Constitutional Commission has not established compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, as well as where the competent committee has not accepted the principles of the draft law. Paragraph (2) of this Article states: ‘If the House accepts the opinion of the Constitutional or Competent Commission, the proposed law shall be considered rejected.’ Article (3) of the same article says: 'If the House does not accept the opinions of the committees, the House requests that the committees', i.e. in this case, the Constitutional Commission and the competent committee,'making new opinions based on new guidelines established by the House and within the time limit set by the House.' Here, I have reminded you a little of the provisions of Article 107, since we have not often had a situation that the Constitutional Commission has not established constitutional basis and non-compliance with the legal system. I am opening a debate on the opinion of the Constitutional Commission and the competent commission. The first person to speak was the legislator, the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21290	Thank you, Chairman. So, a little bit of these life questions. In fact, even though you have a reason for this law, let me say a few words about this proposal. In fact, part of the first tranche of the stand-bay arrangement of the International Fund of 29 million was purposely made, intended for the Central Bank of BiH and 98's provision of 25 million, as an initial capital and for the cost of establishing the main branch and units of 4 million. The Council of Ministers' Decision "Official Messenger No. 9/98" provides for RS to serve one-third of the debt per loan, increased by corresponding interest and costs, and the Federation of BiH two-thirds. Liabilities on loans taken over by the RS, according to my knowledge, increased by costs and interest, were paid to the IMF in 2001, 2002 and 2003 from the RS budget. It was probably done by the Federation. However, as far as I know, the Ministry of Finance has on several occasions addressed the written process by demanding that RS funds be invested, meaning the funds invested in the sense of opening these main branches and units, the return. Until now, however, they have not received any written response. In 2005, there were amendments and additions to this law. RS participated directly in making this, however, its remarks were not adopted and I felt that this could be done in this area. And as you have seen in the draft law in Article 5, the way in which the funds used to establish the main units and branches are recovered is described. The second member, which concerns Article 25, set the value of the Central Bank's initial capital of 25 million, but is not defined as providing initial capital, nor is it defined by the Article 1 of the same law as the Central Bank's founding capital, as well as by Article 27, the change and supplement, defined the distribution of the profits made by the Central Bank, and I believe that the net revenue is being allocated to the general reserves of the Central Bank of BiH and its capital increase, and 60% of the net income is being paid to the account of the institutions in charge of the BiH budget, which I believe would be better settled this way. Because this institution, which provides these 60% of the funds, did not invest in the initial founding capital of the Central Bank of BiH, i.e. He's not her founder. 53 I believe that these proposed amendments regulate the recognition of the entity's funds as the initial capital invested in the Central Bank, that entities may require compensation for the paid costs of setting up the main units and branches from the Central Bank's assets and that the rest of the Central Bank's net profit is allocated to the founders of the proportionate amount of funds in the initial capital, instead of the deposit on the account of the institution in charge of the BiH budget, which is not the founders of the Central Bank. This would be a brief explanation of the proposal of this law which, as you have seen, is in the ordinary legislative procedure. So there's plenty of time and opportunity for the amendment to work. If anyone does, they can fix this law. And, given that we have received two negative opinions, let me look back as a proponent of this law on these opinions. 1. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission which, I must say, has two different approaches. So, one approach, if you look at the Opinion on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH, it is said that this commission, after the debate, simply found that there is a valid constitutional basis for the adoption of the law. 2. The draft law is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. By contrast, the opinion we have received on the proposal of this law is otherwise formulated. So, it states here that after the debate, with two votes "yes", three votes "against" and one "restricted" vote, the Commission did not determine the compliance of the proposed law with the BiH Constitution and the legal system. So, I have a first remark on the principle work of the Constitutional Legal Commission which, in my opinion, should also say that this law has a constitutional basis, and that under 2) it is said that it is believed to most of the votes, this and that it is not in line with the BiH legal system. Why the Constitutional Commission has two approaches to resolution, i.e. giving its opinions. And the other thing I have, meaning on this bill of objections, is that the explanation is deficiting. The argument in the first sentence says most members believe that the bill does not comply with the BiH Constitution and the legal system, because it contains solutions that are contrary to the BiH Constitution. This is not an explanation, this is a finding. The main reasons or opinions of most members of the Constitutional Commission in which parts of this law are not in line with the BiH legal system should be given in the explanation. So, in my opinion, this Constitutional Commission report is not good. And we have the opinion of our Finance and Budget Commission. What to say for the Commission's opinion? In my opinion, it is inappropriate to write in the Report, it is said: 'The Central Bank is not a shareholder society, and for this reason it is not necessary to emphasise the entity's participation in any segment of the Central Bank.' What report indicates such a single finding as the Central Bank, or what is not the Central Bank? There could be another 10 examples of what the Central Bank is not. I think it's inappropriate to put in this report one such finding that the Central Bank is not a shareholder society. I think that this report is also trendy, either a little funny, or it is said, 'Indicating the participation of the entity in providing the initial capital of the Central 54 Bank in relation to two-thirds of the Federation of BiH and one-third of the RS would significantly undermine the independence of these institutions." Emphasising the fact that this is so, that the RS gave one-third, that two-thirds gave the Federation, by putting that fact only, which is generally recognised and not disputed by the law, would violate the independence of the Central Bank's institution. This is what it says in our commission's report. And under three, it seems to me to be a little bit politically colored, because the last sentence says, 'The BiH Central Bank's budget is the only original revenue for now.' What does it mean for now? That means there's gonna be more or it should stay like this. I think the reports written by our commissions should be concise reports, which would be focused on members of this law that concern, not on writing reports politically colored and given in this way. In any case, in the end, colleagues and fellow MPs, these amendments to the law, I think that matter is being clarified and completed, that it is being introduced in the legal way of clean bill policies, the only policy or one of the principles in political relations in BiH which, in my opinion, has the chance to exist and function on the benefit of everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21291	I would like to thank the esteemed second deputy chairman and legislator, Dr. Milorad Živković. The following has been reported for the debate, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović, and may the honourable representative Ekrem Ajanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21292	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the Constitutional Commission of this House gave a negative report on this law, not establishing what the Rules of Procedure state here, the compliance of the law with the Constitution and the BiH legal system. And it is true that Mr. Živković is in positive opinion that it is a technique of the Commission's work, that the law has a constitutional basis and that another sentence in those opinions states that some law, some, is in line with the Constitution and with the legal system. It's a technique of the Constitutional Commission's work. Obligation of the Constitutional Legal Commission pursuant to Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, as well as Article 107, are clearly defined and it reads: 'The Constitutional Commission, after considering the harmonisation of the draft law with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system, delivers an opinion to the chairman of the House...'itd. This is a question raised before the Constitutional Commission and it is the only question that must actually be contained in each report and that is the key question whether the report is the answer to that question is the answer and therefore it can be appreciated whether the Constitutional Commission has given a positive or negative opinion. As has already been said, the Constitutional Commission has found in this law that the law does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system, because it contains solutions that are contrary to the BiH Constitution. There are other opinions and, at the request of the members, this is a majority opinion and, therefore, the opinion of the Constitutional Commission; there are colleagues who have expressed a different opinion. The two colleagues said that this law has – it says, so here in the Report – it has a constitutional basis because 55 is about the Central Bank being in the jurisdiction of BiH institutions and the BiH state should edit the area, and that was an explanation, read it precisely. A colleague also said the law has a constitutional basis, but that it does not comply with BiH's legal system. I honestly said this to know what the atmosphere was like in the Commission, but the Commission's decision is that the proposed law, Mr Živković, is not in line with the legal system, with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system, and that is what we are now discussing. Why is that? We have so far, there will probably be discussions later and on this topic, several situations in which we have changed the existing laws that the BiH Parliament had previously passed to, and some have served as a reason to say that there is a constitutional basis, but all these laws did not contain solutions contrary to the BiH Constitution. What is the law, in the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, proposed by visiting fellow Živković against the Constitution of BiH? Mr. Živković explained precisely what the substance of this law is and I have no intention of adding anything. I would like to invite you, so that I do not interpret to you the provisions of Article 1, Article 2, Article 3 and Article 4 of this law of our distinguished colleague, that, instead of my argument, you may read in the light of this law on this second page of the reasoning, in the first, second, third, fourth paragraph from below, or the third paragraph from above. Thus, it is said: 'Article 1. The law on the Central Bank of BiH is not stated who founded it, remember this well 'who founded the Central Bank.' Next, I think nothing needs to be read, but here I will continue to read: 'not in Article 25. Laws defined as providing initial capital. As the initial capital was paid to the Central Bank by the entities, the addition of Article 25 is proposed. The law in order to define the entity's participation in initial capital.' By law, according to our colleague, it is not defined who founded the Central Bank and he is now proposing to us this law in which, through the participation of the entity, he is trying to answer that question. Now, a respected colleague, in Article III of the Constitution of BiH, it is said, in point 1 below d) Monetary policy, so the competence of BiH institutions and this exclusive jurisdiction of BiH institutions is monetary policy, as provided for in Article VII. And Article VII of the BiH Constitution says: "Central Bank", says: there will be a Central Bank of BiH that will be the only one responsible for issuing money and monetary policy throughout BiH. And I'm still following the provisions of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 and I'm not going to read them, I'm just going to answer the question that you asked in the law, actually to conclude that it wasn't defined who founded the Central Bank. The Central Bank was founded Annex IV, which is the Constitution of BiH and is its founding act. Because if we start talking like that, as it says here in this law, then the question will be who founded the BiH Presidency, who founded the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, who founded the Council of Ministers. So, the BiH Central Bank was established by the BiH Constitution, a law that was later adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and it is not a stock company, as the Finance Commission report says, that its shareholders must register in court, so that it knows who founded the BiH Central Bank. Everything else is operational. The central bank was founded at the time of the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement. The Central Bank of Post-Dayton BiH was established at the time of the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement in April 1995. So, the Central Bank of Post-Dayton BiH. Everything else is operational. And your law, Mr. Živković, I don't know if you were aware of this or not? Let's say that you weren't aware that I am now not accusing you, your law within yourself, through an attempt to settle some technical issues, carries such a danger that 56 can therefore conclude that you have a very different view of the way BiH institutions, the original BiH institutions, are created. No original institution forms any entity and no level of government in BiH. It is done by what is written about it in the Constitution and the acts stemming from the BiH Constitution. And that is why, I repeat, it is correctly written in the opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission that your law is actually an attempt to make the Central Bank of BiH a shareholder society. That's why your law is a direct act on the BiH Central Bank institution and an attempt, I want to believe that it is unconscious, the destruction of the most successful institution in BiH. And that is why he is opposed to the Constitution of BiH, and that is why this is the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission, and that is why I call on the House of Representatives to accept the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission. This is as short as I've had to talk about this. This is a matter that can be talked about for far and wide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21293	Correction of the incorrect allegations, second vice president, Honored Dr. Milorad Živković
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21294	I think, Mr. Džaferović, that you said a lot in this inspired speech, but you didn't say the basics of me being in my objections, which I made to the Constitutional Commission report, you didn't answer. First, why you make two kinds of reports. One report that suits you and, you might say, most of the cases are identical, which is that the legal project has a constitutional basis. And two, that legal project is in line with the BiH Constitution and the legal system. I ask, why didn't you do the same report in which you would say that this bill has a constitutional basis, because it has to have a constitutional basis if it's about amendments and additions to the law, but an existing one. And two, that you have stated that it is not in conformity, in your opinion, or the opinion of the majority in the Commission, with the legal system of the state! And two, so that's one; and two, in your argument, what you're saying now is, at least you write in three sentences, and not just point out that the opinion of the members of the Commission is that this is not in line with the legal system of the state. Why? Because in those three sentences, I might be a little bit better prepared to know why you think it's in sentences, not in your mind, why you think it's not in line with the country's legal system. So you didn't answer my questions. On the third point, I think I will stop at all any law in this Parliamentary Assembly because obviously any legal project that comes here to Parliament is immediately condemned, it is said that the attack on this poor state of BiH and that it, God Bog, will fall apart, if this legal project is adopted, which puts me as an MP in a position that no legal projects really need to be submitted here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21295	The following has been reported by honourable representative Ekrem Ajanović, and let the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović be prepared. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21296	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I will say, first of all, the law came at a very awkward time. At a time of financial crisis in the world and at a time when the Central Bank makes certain reliefs and aids to the citizens of this country, which means that its function and its role in the future should be as great as possible. However, it is not the reason, meaning it is a financial crisis, to reject the law. There is an unconstitutional law here that indirectly wants to change the functions of the Central Bank given to it in the BiH Constitution. I've spoken to some economists, since I'm a doctor as well as a legislator, so let's just happen that we can interpret it one way or another, but I've talked to economists and I've actually asked what's in the domain of monetary policy. By adopting this law and by turning the Central Bank into a shareholder society, which means that entities share profits, it directly affects the stability of monetary policy and otherwise the policies of money in BiH. The central bank, whatever has a higher profit, whatever guarantees there is, is a coin that exists in BiH – it is getting stronger and better and I don't think this law should be allowed to see the light of day, that is, that this law comes to a second stage at all, to fix it with some amendments or something else. And I, as a member of the Constitutional Commission, have not changed my mind today and I believe that this law does not comply with the Constitution and is not in line with the legal system that exists in BiH. And that's why I'm voting against this law. The President of the Constitutional Commission spoke of all other details very closely. What was not such a detail on the Constitutional Commission, certainly that there were different opinions, it was without further ado and stated in the Constitutional Commission Report, but after that meeting, thinking and... of this law, I am even more convinced that the Constitutional Commission did the right thing and that this law is directly contrary to the Constitution and the legal system in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21297	Discussion, Azra Hadžiahmetović. Was it a replica of anyone? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21299	Dear Chairman, 58
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21300	Is the replica the same? _________(?) Discussion, discussion. [[no microphone turned on]] AZRA
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21301	...a very short replica. My colleagues and colleagues, since counterpart Živković said he would not introduce any more legal projects in the parliamentary procedure, because there is no suitable ground and adequate response, I ask him, and I promise him that he will have my support, to introduce the 'law on the establishment of a public health office at BiH level', which would deal with the problem of maintaining the health of BiH residents. You'll have the full support of all doctors, I mean within the parliamentary benches. So, don't give up on your projects and let's go to the BiH Public Health Institute to form at the level of BiH at full capacity, so that this is an assumption that we are safeguarding the health of BiH citizens. I promise you my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21302	Discussion, Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21303	Thank you. Here, let me get on with this. I'm glad my colleague Živković said that giving up on these, I... I suppose, these initiatives. I know and respect both my colleague Živković and his profession but some of the essential things in the area of economy and macroeconomics that are subject to the regulation of this bill – I really cannot bear what is written on this paper. I know that this fellow Živković did not write as a doctor, but here is quite well thought that whoever prepared this for him for today's session that second time consults another opinion, at least an economist, because any economist who has read, here I will list three of the most famous textbooks: Sameulson's 'Economy', i.e. Samuelson and Nordhhaus 'Economy' or Blanshard, who is the main economist of the International Monetary Fund, his 'Macroeconomy' li Stenli Fišer, not to list further, has examined the basics of monetary policy, has examined the basics of banking which include central banking and business banking, which, among other things, differs according to what business banking is a unique way of functioning, and central banking. I'm only saying this for one reason, for a better understanding. I want to believe that only out of misunderstanding could one proposal come to an MP. The central bank is the bank of all banks in all countries, i.e. in the euro area where the European Central Bank exists. She's not a common bank. In order to be more adequate, the title of an institution on the basis of, possibly, such a proposal as in the proposal to amend the Law, as is before us, especially not operating on the basis of shareholders, based on the distribution of profits in a way based on the size of the roles etc. And to mention, it's not by any chance called the Central Bank. In some countries it bears the name National Bank. There's a Federal Reserve System in the U.S. In the euro zone, the European Central Bank is where, meanwhile, 59 also exists the European System of Central Banks, which did not possibly position the European Central Bank in such a way as to position such a law. I am not going to enter the procedural, possibly, proceedings related to this law, I am not going to enter into any arguments concerning the constitutional basis, although both deserve attention, but I have had the need as an economist to defend the language of the profession when it comes to the Central Bank, that is, the functioning of the central monetary institution and the underlying preambles and the rules applicable to all central monetary institutions, regardless of what they are called in some countries and which distinguish them by the mechanism of functioning from commercial, or business banks that can function, perhaps in this way that was proposed for the Central Bank here. I, if what I said at first was quite well-intentioned, here and I will end up quite well-intentioned – to suggest to whoever possibly prepared this for you, because I know that you are not a colleague of Živković, as a doctor, I think it is likely that you suggest that there is at least one of these textbooks that I mentioned. Only a small part relating to the distinction of the central monetary institution, i.e. central banking and business banking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21304	I thank the distinguished representative Hadžiahmetović. The following has been announced by Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković, and may the honourable representative of Sadik Bahtić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you look at the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission, it can be seen that, as in a rare coma, a number of members of the Constitutional Legal Commission asked explicitly to point out that they were not or were for the constitutional basis, and even in one, however, sentences are the reason why they were not, or were. That in itself tells us what kind of debate was on the Constitutional Commission. First, I must say that I do not understand what the role of the Finance and Budget Commission was after a negative report by the Constitutional Commission and what would have happened if the Constitutional Legal Commission had given a negative report and the Finance and Budget Commission had given a positive report on the principles. Therefore, it is obvious that the Commission for Finance and Budget should not have discussed when it received information that it has a negative report from the Constitutional Legal Commission on which there is no constitutional legal basis and compliance with the legal system. The further debate in any competent committee had no meaning. Probably, if that hadn't happened, one part of the debate would have happened today or the arguments – we wouldn't be talking about them here. So we wouldn't talk about principles because we just didn't get to the principle. At this stage, we have not come to the principles of this law. Also, I must say that I have proposed a law on amendments to the BiH Constitutional Court Act on time. After the long and discussion and formation of some commission by the High Representative, i.e. the Working Group, etc., we did nothing in the end, with the conclusion that this could not be changed by ordinary law but by constitutional law. After that, we made 60 changes. So it's the Constitution. So, where the Constitutional Court is listed, it's said we can't touch it, but only by constitutional law, so the two-thirds majority, the constitutional law, there's no... Afterwards, we held a debate, held a debate on finance, Article 8, and we said that the Federation, in the Constitution, would determine two-thirds and Republika Srpska's one-third of the revenues needed for the budget, and then reformed indirect taxation without constitutional law. So we didn't have constitutional law, so we changed these two-thirds -- one-third, and that's how we ended up talking about that reform that I don't want to go deeper about. I want to tell you about the arches when we're discussing the Constitution and some things that have been defined by the Constitution. Today, when we are discussing the Central Bank, which is also the same constitution, that is, in the same Constitution, we are now not discussing the constitutional law, nor are we discussing any other variant, but we are merely saying that this law has no constitutional basis. Please, the Central Bank was established by the Law on the Central Bank of BiH, not by the Constitution, but by this law, and all positions related to the Central Bank, by the administration, governors, etc., repeating what is in the Constitution. So what's in the Constitution is repeated in the Law, which is perfectly normal so that it doesn't come into collage. In itself, this implies the possibility for the Parliamentary Assembly to amend and supplement the Central Bank Act. And how is it possible, then, that there is no constitutional basis for law? We can talk about compliance with the legal system but it is not possible that there is no constitutional basis and that this parliament cannot discuss the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Bank Act and can adopt the Act on the Central Bank of BiH. This is an illogicality that suggests that the Constitutional Commission has dealt with political aspects, not constitutional aspects of the issue. And there was no argument on the Constitutional Commission that we were talking about today. She wasn't brought to the Constitutional Commission, she's out here today at the House. So there was no such argument on the Constitutional Commission. I don't even know now, and I'm a member of the Constitutional Commission, I was on that committee, in which this law is not in line with the legal system. I don't get it, here's what he's not in line with the legal system. Look, some people see more in this law than they have. I'm not going to talk about the content of the law, I'm not the legislator, there's no need for me to talk about it, and I don't want to defend the content, I might define some of the provisions here differently that I'm the Proposer, but the promoter defined it the way he defined it. But it is not clear to me that we are touching any stability of the Central Bank of BiH. Here, I've been trying here to see where we're touching it, whether we're taking more money than we're taking after this now, or we're taking the same 60%, and anyway, we're just dividing them differently. We are now dividing them into the BiH budget, and then dividing them into two entity budgets. Those 40% would still remain as long as the Central Bank is now, but here I am not getting into it. I'm not convinced after the Constitutional Commission session that this law does not comply with the legal system. The principles are different. I don't think we should talk about principles today. If he comes, and obviously there's no way he's coming into that first reading, so let's talk about principles, then that's something that most of these discussions would make sense. In fact, then we could defend it to the principle of complete independence, independence of the bank, etc. is threatened and therefore the law cannot be adopted in the first reading. But if the law could not be accepted, the constitutional basis of his and compliance with the legal system, I really don't understand, here, as a member of the Constitutional Commission. Thank you. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21306	Another replica, the esteemed representative, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21307	The chairman, colleagues and colleagues, just for a little while, so there's no confusion left. My colleague Novaković is, in my opinion, one systematic representative who prepares and is sure to present, as I would say, precise formulations and I follow that, of course. I only need to say two sentences. So, the Central Bank was founded by the Constitution of BiH and the Central Bank Act, so it's an indisputable thing, and we shouldn't have replicated it. And it is true that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has the authority to pass the law and amend the law. These are indisputable things, but unlike you, I do not think it has the authority to pass such a law as it was proposed, because its solutions are contrary to the BiH Constitution. And there was a debate, Mr. Novaković, you remember well at the Commission's session, the three colleagues said as I say, not as exhaustively as I was saying, but there were discussions and all these thesis were given on both the Constitutional Commission and the basic problem of this law is that of the original BiH institution that formed or was created under the Constitution and under the law is trying somewhere directly, and somewhere around it, the small door will be made by an institution that was created by entities. The entities here have not created any original institution and that is the fundamental problem of this law, and that is the difference between you and me. I needed to answer this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21308	I thank the esteemed representative Džaferović. The following has been announced by the distinguished representative Sadik Bahtić, and let the distinguished representative Bajazit Jašarević be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21309	Thank you. I'll do it briefly, in front of the Finance and Budgets Committee. As you know, the Commission has not accepted the principles. We had a negative view of the Constitutional Commission and, colleague Novaković, it was the Commission's secretary who interpreted whether we could work or not. So we're not at all an economic committee, and we're neither legal nor political committee. And based on economic criteria, we took a stand and we refused, first of all, because the Central Bank, a colleague of Azra, said, is a bank of all banks, an independent institution whose primary task is to maintain monitor stability, which it does effectively. And to me, this is one of the best and most important institutions in the BiH state. This has also been demonstrated in these last days of the global economic crisis, when the Central Bank reduced reserves, as much as regained citizens' trust in savings and deposits from 7.5 to 15, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers, the same initiative came from the Central Bank. So, the institution still takes care of BiH's monetary stability. 62 I have to say that when it comes to audit reports, there are always positive reports saying how independent this institution is, how law-abiding, how well it works. The credit rating for us is as good as it is, too, thanks to the Central Bank, their annual reports. What are the reserves? They're always growing. All these are economic reasons that give as much positive economic image to BiH in the world. I said it, in my opinion, is one attack on this good institution, the Central Bank, wants to weaken, which is nothing new. And here I am in the proposal of my colleague Živković, saying that they had not received an answer to their earlier enquiries. I have information that since 2000, the Central Bank has been responding to the RS Finance Ministry's request that it cannot enroll their share of the Central Bank's initial capital of 4 million, as the Central Bank is not a shareholder company, as colleagues said earlier. In my view, the Commission for Finance and the budget was nevertheless guided by economic criteria and... therefore received this proposal from the law a negative position. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21310	I thank the esteemed representative of Bahtić. The following has been reported to be a respected representative of Bajazit Jašarević, and may the distinguished representative Martin Raguž be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21311	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to make my point that by discussing the report on the work of the Central Bank of BiH unequivocally that the Central Bank of BiH is the most competent institution of BiH, and I was concerned when the news was made public that it is going to change this law, fearing that someone in this sensitive time will challenge such a single position as the Central Bank of BiH. When I received the text of the law, it was clear to me, or so I understood MP Živković's initiative, that this was an attempt to solve some unresolved things from the past, from the time of the Central Bank's creation. Therefore, it is very important that the objectives and basic tasks of the Central Bank are fully achieved, and the capital issue that was the founding capital of the Central Bank raises the question which would be the government and which states would seek to help lower levels of government once it has established their own institution. And I came up with the need to find out if it was then perhaps a time when the BiH state did not even have its funding and therefore reached for some parallel ways to provide funds and for what is the original constitutional jurisdiction of BiH, especially for the Central Bank. Since she had no money, and we need the Central Bank, I am convinced that with the presence of the entity, there was such an arrangement, which was prescribed slightly from the arbitration decision for Brcko Distric BiH, that two-thirds were provided by the Federation, one-third of RS. Well, if that question remains open, I think we should keep it open. And I'm sure there will be no other solution. And if it was a normal time, BiH would probably have the opportunity to set up the Central Bank itself, because it has to establish it itself, and the requirement to reconcile these funds is somewhat understood. But under that request, this arrangement in the 63th establishment of the Central Bank, I think it is inadmissible, and I think the position of the Constitutional Commission and the Finance Commission and the budget should absolutely be understood as inadmissible content of the law. As an electric engineer, I came up with it myself. It's not a questionable title. The content of the law is controversial, which is why it cannot be in accordance with the Constitution, nor with the legal system, and some other law, other content, would, of course, pass this commission, which Mr. Džaferović, as an expert in the area, has given us enough information in his second address. And I must say, although I am sorry that I wasn't on the Commission yesterday, that the Finance and Budget Commission also prevented this open issue from being resolved in this way. So, the open question of founding capital. The question is, can he even calm down? He could calm down if the court could settle down. So if there is some legal procedure to settle once the money is given to the court, it needs to be opened. And the court is the solution when it wants to clean up. But if the money that was once given voluntarily is going to be used to make one exceptional institution for this state of BiH some other bank with the uncertain success of its work, then I think it is necessary to understand why the commissions and most of today's debaters are reserved and I don't think there's any way that this text can be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21312	Dear representative Milica Marković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21313	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really didn't think I was reporting on this item of the agenda, not for discussion, not for replication or anything else, because simply this topic of the Central Bank, by my profession, is not close to me as a person, but I answered for the replica for the reason that it has really become more unbearable to listen in this House to such a measure of entitiate negation. So, not only the RS, but in this case both entities, but I know and I am convinced that it is especially one entity, at the price and so on, although these two entities have given these funds for the establishment of that Central Bank of BiH, let us now deny it and say that it was not, that it was given by the RS and that it gave the Federation of BiH to change it all now and that it is now called the Central Bank's capital, or BiH. I think MPs who are thus trying to deny and disqualify entities that are only two components of BiH are actually putting BiH in a situation that, I say, shakes the ground on which BiH exists, although the finding, this shaking and shaking of BiH as a state, is constantly attributing to MPs from the RS. But here I am listening here today, when my colleague Živković proposed a bill on amendments and amendments to the BiH Central Bank Act, it is now unconstitutional, not in line with the BiH legal system, 100 of some reasons is listed here. When it is said, when... there is a requirement from the RS to return property to the Serbian Orthodox Church in BiH, it is said: neither can it because it is a requirement from the RS. When we had a Bill on Census at last session, which was proposed as a BiH law, then there are third reasons, he says, we don't need a census now either. Two sessions ago when we had one law that came from the Council of Ministers, it came by revoted three 64 ministers from the RS in the Council of Ministers, and it was considered good, it should have been supported, it should have been voted. And it's not at all now, I say, in a revolt or a regency of any kind, this finding that Mr. Živković said here was being created and it's becoming absurd to suggest anything and ask for anything to be done in this country on a legal basis, to make certain things right and bring them into order. Because whatever is proposed, if it comes from MPs from the RS, it needs to be done immediately, it needs to be rejected, it needs to be found for some 100 and a million reasons why it doesn't need to be done. Only what corresponds to politicians from the Federation of BiH, eh, that should be supported. But to know that even such demands will not go away and that in this way they will seriously question BiH's existence, because when we ask for consent, and when we want some things to be regulated in this country, it is rejected. And then don't attribute things to the RS and to us from the RS that we're unmounting and disrupting things in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-1.u21314	No more replicas, no more debates. The College concludes today's work session and gives you a proposal to continue this session on 29th after the end of the joint session of both homes – MPs ask, the Council of Ministers answers. I'm making this proposal on a plea date. Please prepare to vote. You'll all get your word. There's you... if only one wouldn't, there's a dozen of you, so don't worry, you'll all get your word. You're registered. Prepare to vote. Vote now: 29 after a joint session. 20 votes "yes", with no votes "against" and no "abstained" votes. So, we interrupt the session and continue the 29th after a special session of both homes – MPs ask, the Council of Ministers responds. Thank you very much. The seat was suspended at 17.02 p.m.
