ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18306	Representatives, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 29th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Our regular guests, presidents and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs, were invited to attend the meeting. I warmly welcome all those present and thank you for having responded to our invitation to attend the House sessions. I also welcome the representatives of the media and thank you for the attention they pay to Parliament's work. I note that we have timely informed the relevant...in the Public TV Service of BiH about the holding of the session, and in order to organise a direct television broadcast of the session. According to service information, I find that the session is attended by 39 representatives. We don't have an adjudicated leave of absence of any representative. Two signs are absent. Therefore, the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, before we discuss the agenda proposal, I'd like to say a few words. Namely, as you noticed, there was a rotation at the head of this high house, after the end of the eight-month period in which Dom was chaired by a respected colleague, Milorad Živković. On this occasion, I would like to thank Dr. Milorad Živković for his correct cooperation and constructive work in the past period and, of course, wish that our cooperation continues to be high-level. Also, I want to invite all of you to a proper and better cooperation and in the next eight months of my presidency this home, through clubs and individually, because the success of this home certainly depends on the cooperation of all clubs and representatives with the College of the House. I thank you in advance for your correctness and good cooperation. Also, I call on the media to properly monitor the work of this home. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you received a draft agenda in the invitation to the session. The basic materials for the proposed agenda points, you received earlier, and 2 later, as they arrived, submitted opinions and reports from the competent committees on materials. Meanwhile, for justified reasons, there has been a change in the agenda proposal. From the proposed agenda, two points have been removed: point 8. Proposal for a framework law on secondary vocational education and training in BiH, at the request of the competent constitutional committee. On 10 May, the Commission sent a request to the College for an extension of the time limit for the delivery of the report, which the College accepted. Also, point 2. Proposal for a law on border control. The competent commission also requested an extension of the time limit for the submission of an opinion on the principles, and it was also approved by the College. The agenda is complemented by one point: Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the proposals for the conclusions of Representative Zlatko Lagumdžija from the 9th joint session of both homes. I am obliged to note that the business conditions for inclusion in the agenda have also met the Council of Ministers' decision on the resolution of the foreign ministers and Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs and Deputy Minister of Defence, without being included in the agenda for justified reasons. Given the tragic car accident in which the father and grandmother of Mr. Igor Crnadko were killed, the College of the House decided to put this item on the agenda for the next session. On behalf of the House of Representatives and personally, the Crnadak family express my sincere condolences in their grief. Also, the SDP's proposal to amend and supplement the BiH Election Law, which is addressed in the procedure, in accordance with Article 127. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives are not included in the agenda, as the reasons for the proposal have ceased. The amended draft agenda you received on the representative benches. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear Representative Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, I would like to propose one item of the agenda that would be formulated in the light of the conclusions which would be addressed to the Council of Ministers. Namely, the proposal says: The BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with launching the process of identifying the assets of the former Alliance of Communists of BiH and carrying out appropriate legal procedures to take it away from the current users. The council of ministers is obliged to notify the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of these activities every three months. I would also like to present my argument immediately as to why I propose this conclusion of the agenda in the agenda, and possibly the debate on that conclusion. 3 Because we all know that there is a political party in BiH that is at the same time in this house and a parliamentary party who uses, in a way, all the property that remains behind the Alliance of Communists in BiH in a way that is recklessly and in a way. Although this could be a parliamentary initiative, I have decided, however, to propose this to the agenda, not only to conclude it, but for the reason that the people should be returned to what is his. And not only that, but to expose the redheaded manipulationists who are immorally using people's property, and present themselves as the saviors of BiH and its only progressive future. If that's the case, we'll determine for ourselves, if we ask ourselves a few questions, of which I'll just bring up a few. How do you call someone who uses a donated Mercedes, not one or not once, and the story of social justice, someone who spends at a bar in Paris 4,000 KM taxpayers, and when budgeting a budget to help farmers? How do you call someone who takes his party colleague to New York to help him get better and more twisted by the RS and advocates reconciliation in BiH? Someone who without any effect goes to Montenegro with a dawn that would envy both the president of the United States and spends about 200 pensions in BiH, and advocates a decent life as a pensioner? What do you call the rest of this family who retire one day, and the next day they apply for salary and compensation in Parliament. Someone who twice voted to pass the Law of Salaries, after which, by doing nothing to fix it, organises protests against their colleagues? What do you call those who have two-digit receipts of thousands of marks, and tell the people about the hard life, or someone who agrees a day before the agenda, and the next day, and only when the cameras are on, make a circus out of Parliament? How do you call one who does not participate in the work of the committee and is never until the end of Parliament's sessions, but only on the agenda points transmitted by TV cameras? What do you call a party that beats reform laws and which are the preconditions for signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, thus pushing the European future of BiH and the EU? Someone who wants to break the nose of the Prime Minister to our neighbouring country, who has such members, how do you call someone who has such members, such a policy, a party policy that collapses, not builds, who calls for disorder and chaos in the state? These are just some questions that I have asked myself and I believe that you all know a lot about them and you know a lot of answers to these questions, but I want us to talk about it publicly and I want this Parliament to take a position as well as the Council of Ministers of BiH that this society is obliged to what the people acquired and created their membership fee or any other way back to the people. So I'm asking that this agenda item be placed on the agenda, in the light of the conclusions and I said, possibly, possibly open a debate about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18308	Thank you. Is Mr Becirovic a replica or a debate? It's a debate. I've previously registered an esteemed representative for Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18309	Dear Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of NGOs, international institutions, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like first to congratulate the new chairman and to wish him to endure this mandate, means until the end, of course. When I say hold on, I mean and successfully, it means... it's been eight months. I just wanted to warn you of one thing and say right now: I'm not suggesting that this point be removed from the agenda, but I think we've made a business failure. Namely, point 11. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties was discussed at the Finance Commission before a constitutional basis was established on the Constitutional Legal Commission, thereby injuring the Rules of Procedure. It is clear that the Finance Commission could only deal with this after establishing a constitutional legal basis by the Constitutional Legal Commission. But keeping in mind, I repeat, the day after that is a constitutional basis, I'm not proposing a takedown, but I'd like to ask that in the future it means we pay attention that these things don't happen to us. And of course, when I'm, I'm going to comment, that is, this proposal on the agenda point, because I realized that this is now a proposal for a agenda point in the debate, so that the SDS Club can identify whether to support it or not. I'd like to know specifically, so who's the one who spent 4,000 marks at the bar, who's the one who drives the Mercedes, we just need some additional information so we can make a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18310	I thank the esteemed representative Novaković for his recommendations and for his good wishes. The next entry was made by the honourable representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18311	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, esteemed media representatives, since here we are in the mood today to include new points of the agenda in the offered agenda, I suggest that we not go far past but go from this closer to the past. So, unlike colleagues from the SNSD who have this initiative, I propose the next item of the agenda, if possible for today's session, if not, then for the next session, and the next item of the agenda would be: Information on who are the winners of medals and recognitions that were handed by the most wanted war criminal and Hague fugitive Radovan Karadžić from 1992 to 1995 and whether it is true that this Karadzic's Law of Rewards was still in force in RS on 27 April 1993. I am asking the Council of Ministers, especially the Ministry of Human Rights of the Council of Ministers, to provide us with full information on this because if this is true, and I am not going to speak in advance, I think it is really scandalous for both BiH and civilised Europe, and I am asking that this be the point of the agenda, and I believe that no one will object to that proposal either. So if it's impossible today, then I suggest that we conclude today that this should be the point of the agenda at the next session of the House of Representatives. Thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18312	I will only ask you, and the esteemed representative Marković and the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović, means to make precise statements about the title of the agenda item he proposes and to deliver it here, means in writing. And Mr Bećirović to determine whether he is asking to put that item on the agenda today. I wouldn't want to decide on his behalf: whether it's today or at some next session. The word has a respected representative, Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18313	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me, first of all, congratulate Mr. Lozančić on the name of the SDP Club and wish him the successful leadership of this house in the coming period. I wouldn't want to replicate and pollomise with my colleague Marković. Indeed, a legitimate initiative to defile and laminate about a political party has been used, you know, with a lot of allegations of some abuse without giving any argument. In addition, it is a misused business initiative to discuss a political party. I have no intention, of course, of course, and it's no good for me to deny it or use the same right so I can speak my mind about other parties here in Parliament. Since this is about launching an initiative, or the conclusion that the Council of Ministers is taking away the assets of the SDP, I think it's prejudge and, if I can help formulate, we will support the initiative that the Council of Ministers gives information on the legality of the SDP's assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18314	I thank the esteemed representative Križanović. Correction of the incorrect allegation: the esteemed second vice-president, Dr Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18315	Thank you, Chairman. I also want to join the congratulations and wishes for a successful presidency of this house in the coming period. In fact, the incorrect assumption is that, as far as I'm concerned, an esteemed colleague in no word has mentioned your party. What you found yourself in it, and now you're public here saying it's SDP, that's your problem. And since I have already reported on this, I would like to say about this conclusion that I absolutely support it because I believe that the major robbery of the people's property did not occur by privatising or by individual thieves, but by organised crime by a group of 6 individuals who, in the name of the party, took on a huge wealth, issuing and collecting large fees for the assets of the former Alliance of Communists BiH. As far as I know, in the RS, the former assets of the Alliance of Communists were given to use institutions such as the Prosecutor's Office, etc. And that property in the Federation has occupied what you already called a party, which rents these premises and serves as an enormous wealth for individuals, which would be the first phase, and then the use of funds to come to power with the communist programme. When the debate on this agenda is held, I will propose to add to this conclusion the exact amount of funds so far earned in relation to the issue of that property and, of course, to return it to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18316	Thank you. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18317	Thank you, Chairman. Let me express my gratitude to the chairman-in-Office of the Party for BiH and the new chairman of the Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. the House of Representatives, for my success in the next period during its chairmanship. I need to remind you that we are at a debate on the agenda. I am saying this because the discussions and initiatives, which were just heard, are more like Members' initiatives before the debate, i.e. the possible adoption of additional points of the agenda with, here's a proper elaborate. Here, I will stand over an initiative divided by MPs: to task the Council of Ministers to initiate the procedure. So this would be more of an initiative to the Council of Ministers. In that sense, I think it would be better to treat it like that. If, after this initiative or the realization of this initiative, the Council of Ministers, since the address originally came from here, provides us with the relevant materials, on which basis we would conduct the debate, I think that this debate would have its own purpose. I'm afraid that without any paper in front of me, without any concrete information or perhaps anyone has any more, no one else, etc., this speaker Parliament today would turn into mutual accusations and I think we'd be having discussions that wouldn't be useful. Likewise, I think that my colleague Denis Bećirević, what he suggested, was more instigated in the form of parliamentary issues and initiatives, so if, after the response, or the reaction of the relevant institutions, it is worth it or deserves to be the point of the agenda, I suggest that we treat it as such. So this, I remind you, was about the initiative to adopt the agenda. In particular, when it comes to the agenda, since the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH also enables different voting modes on certain points, among other things, we do not have any more business barriers to making secret statements about some points 7. I would ask, on this occasion, that the appointments in all institutions bearing the mark of independent institutions, which depend on the fact of appointment, i.e. the establishment, is whether, appropriate structures, and human and institutional, of this Parliament, I would suggest, in that sense, that we introduce as a practice of a secret vote. In that sense, I suggest that at point 15. The appointment of the Auditor-General and the Vice-General shall hold a secret vote, i.e. to prepare for the secret vote of the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18318	I thank the honourable representative. No more reported... There is. Honorable representative of the Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18319	It is obvious that this strategy continues that the SDP should be on the ground for the country's status rather than the one responsible. And I think if you have these intentions we want to support you in going through with it and really putting things in place. I've now got this agenda point as much as you have, so I... I've read exactly what he wrote. That's why I didn't want to replicate my colleague Živković right away. This is where the entire natural SDP was recognized. It doesn't need to be a scientist, so it's recognized because it's here that it's about the Alliance of Communists in BiH/SKBiH. So, the SDP is a legal, legal and political follower of the Alliance of Communists BiH, so at least it's not a secret. Both legal and political. Repeat. It's not a secret. Here... here are the people of the Electoral Commission, so we're registered to our Statute. They have our founding act. It's all very clear and we're not running away from it,... So this is about SDP. However, I think this is very good that this is running. We have a problem with largely usurping SDP assets in certain parts of BiH. And there can't be a point in the agenda to prejudge anything, so neither can the point be to subtract, because this isn't a revolutionary assembly that takes away in the legal system that is what it is. Now it's about the restitution, about the return. What do you want? To make assumptions for a new restitution. So, I was offered a team more, Mr. Chairman, which Mr. Živković, from that pay phone over there, said that the party... from which I come that it represents organised crime, organized crime. I repeat, those are the words from this pay phone. Organised crime does not require a verdict in Parliament. For organised crime, Parliament should support everyone to fight organised crime and you will always have our support to fight organised crime. I believe the SNSD gentlemen will have something to say when the OHR Anti-Corruption Team comes out with first results. You'll have a chance to talk about organized crime and I have no intention of putting that label on your head. You'll get what's coming to you yourself. I therefore beg, Mr. Chairman, we support the spirit of this point if it is truly serious. 8 I only suggest that the Council of Ministers be commissioned to initiate the identification procedure. If you wish as a promoter, I would very much like to meet you to initiate the procedure of identifying the situation and legal status of the former Alliance of Communists of BiH and to inform the Parliamentary Assembly within three months, with a proposal for further activities. If you're seriously going to talk, then the Council of Ministers has been identifying what is with her for three months, what exists, what was the status, how it legally came about and where we are now and with a proposal for further activities. I would love to, and if this is a desire to clarify the matter in the right way within the legal order and legal system and the legal security of the country, I am very interested in it, both as a member of this party and also as a citizen of this country. So my proposal, therefore... this point of the agenda is to create a regulatory court from Parliament. Then make an immediate decision to take it away. What are you going to determine? Make a decision to take everything. You can do that. Bring the law to take everything. Try that, too, and you can do it. But if you want to talk seriously, here I am offering you a very serious approach to this problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18320	I thank the esteemed representative of Lagumdžija. The second deputy president, Dr. Milorad Živković, appeared for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18321	We didn't invite the SNSD to the revolution, that's what you SDP guys do. We have here decidently stated that the Council of Ministers is in charge of carrying out appropriate legal procedures. Whether it's calling for a revolution or calling for the use of all legal and legal methods that this, what your party did, is taken away from you and your party and returned to the people. On the other hand, every time you listen to the demagogue stories of the SDP that insult your common sense. Redish colleagues, as my colleague said nicely, will not succeed, because citizens have read you, as your attempts have read, so that I do not call them by a more difficult name, such as the law of confiscation of illegally acquired property. Of course, you should have applied that law first, such as the manipulation of NGOs. We were present at the last session, as it was done, as is the story of wages, which will come as a part of the agenda, and we will also talk about it here. I hope those cameras... call, be more, and it's obvious, dear colleagues, that you're constantly losing the game, and then you're most ground-breaking with those who beat you in a fair and democratic battle. Comrades of the SDP, take this as a well-intentioned criticism and accept this as our message before your forthcoming congress. Good luck!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18322	Thank you. Take it easy! Dear Representative Marković: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18323	Well, it's interesting that only the representatives of one political party have recognized themselves in this initiative, that no one else has recognized or answered the word about this, and I would say, and I would say...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18324	May I have your attention, please, we'll... we'll hear from you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18325	...and I would say that... at a press conference, the Secretary-General of the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats for one party in Republika Srpska said whenever the SNSD says corruption, and they say there we are. Now, about this situation right now, and I want to say that I didn't deliberately propose an initiative, but I suggested that it be a point of the agenda, just so that in that way, which we would adopt, we would make a commitment to the Council of Ministers to deliver material that we would eventually define ourselves and make some new conclusions. And I'll tell my colleague Novaković. You asked who it is that spends 4,000 KM and trains such Mercedeses? Well, here, let us adopt this item of the agenda, so in the debate, you'll hear who these people are and, when we open the debate, you might get some information that you didn't ask for.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18326	Thank you. The next one was signed up for the replica by the esteemed MP Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18327	Thank you. First of all, I want to congratulate you... and to thank the current chairman for his fair and correct work. I want to say, too, that I have to say here, that I have asked a parliamentary question and I have not yet received an answer from the Ministry of Justice: What will they do to return the greatest hijacker and robbery of state property, which the SDP has done to the Communist Union, to the people? We know well that no state in ex Yugoslavia, nor Milosevic's party in Serbia, took it, only SDP Zlatko Lagumdžija did it here in the Federation. There's a million income marks just... on Alipashin. The Federation government pays another five. I've checked exactly the fening they have, how much they get. It pays his way around the world's metropolis, New York, Washington, London, for these individual racquetical media. We need to talk about it here publicly to get it back, to get the people back to the people, to share it with the BiH institutions. 10 Well, gentlemen dear, we pay 20 million rents every year for institution accommodation! Isn't it more logical to take away the robbery from the SDP, to frame our institutions, as they did in another entity? Isn't it better to take away that property, then share it with the fighters, the shechids, etc., and not to strengthen those who are the main brakers of all the democratic processes and the development of the European road, who are spilling out all the demagogues and always bussing out: I'm for the social, the poor, and there are three housing units here, even receiving 3,000 stamps a month. So who are you demagogying to? If you don't stop by Mr. Lagumdžija, you're gonna start buying apartments in New York, Vašington! It's all true. I went door to door where your apartments are in Sarajevo. Three: the Alipashino, at the Eternal Fire, above Skenderia. That's what needs to be put in place, that SDP demagogy. I'm glad you've admitted that you're a relapse of the Communist Union, that you're heirs and political, it's evident from your work. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18328	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank everyone once again for our sincere support to successfully begin the work of this house. But the Rules of Procedure exist, so we'll respect it. The next one was applied for by the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18329	I join and congratulate my colleagues and wish to work successfully with the entire College. I would like to say that Mr Lagumdžija should not dispute the initiative which was recognised by Ms Milica Marković, since it is the fact that BiH has moved from a monopartite totalitarian system to a multi-party system, and what would be quite logical is that, at least the smallest thing to be done, the property from a party, which has ruled in BiH and the former Yugoslavia for nearly 50 years, should be divided evenly into the newly created political parties in the BiH area, thus taking away the exclusiveity in terms of the legal follower of a party in the BiH area. The second question, I hope, is that what Mr Lagumdžija said about the Anti-Corruption Team that OHR is a very serious institution, that it will not be accepted to show or incriminate political opponents in terms of... creating a better position in BiH, and in this way it is a long time ago... it has been a time for each other to suggest and to be a criterion for being a thief or a criminal, but how someone is honest. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18330	Thank you. The next one was applied for by a respected representative, Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18331	I, first of all, want to say that I take the discussion of Mr Živković and the complete SNSD as one big compliment to us SDP MPs and the entire SDP of BiH. And it's really a shame there's no TV transmission that even citizens can see this big compliment. Why is that a compliment to us? Well, the man publicly admitted what was so far a public secret! Publicly today, at this session, they have admitted who is the most disturbing in this country in BiH, who should be attacked and who should be destroyed. And the SNSDs attacked the one who bothered him the most. However, however, I would like to make it very clear: the SDP was a dam to divide the BiH state, to defend the destruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina's television and not to pick up, to what extent not. The SDP is not the only dam to divide BiH. There are other political parties fighting for the BiH state, but it is obvious that the SNSD is the biggest obstacle to the SDP. First they tried to break us politically, so it didn't work out. So, phase one: they've confessed to defeat. Now, in phase two, they're trying to destroy the SDP with some economic and other measures and they're going to lose again. I only hope that the third phase of the destruction of the SDP will not be as it was with the SDPs but also other citizens and political parties from 1992 to 1995. The SDP is absolutely indestructible and those who want to destroy it should know that this country is also much older than those who are trying to destroy both this country and the Social Democratic Party of BiH. And we're not afraid of that debate either. Only we will have to start all discussions in this country, including how the Republika Srpska government building from the initial 30 to 40 million ended up on 250 million marks! Why is this from Banja Luka to Sava the most expensive kilometer of highways in the world, where the budget money of all the citizens and peoples of this country is spent? We'll open up all these discussions. And what Mr. Bahtić was talking about, he did advance a little today, verbally attacked, and otherwise he has the custom of physically attacking BiH citizens, so one step ahead was observed when it comes to Mr. Bahtić. Since we all in the country saw how he was publicly praised and supported by the president of the SNSD, he probably returned in a nice way to the president of the SNSD today, by the only one from the Federation standing up today, so he publicly joined this SNSD initiative. But let me finish. You can try everything, you won't destroy Bosnia and Herzegovina, you won't destroy the SDP! Neither members nor SDP supporters nor BiH patriots will give you a clear view of who represents the biggest dam for SNSD's secessionist policy in this country. And replicate as much as you want, and we'll, we've got a lot more to talk about than you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18332	Thank you. The following has been reported by the esteemed representative Kalabić. It's a replica, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18333	Dear colleagues, also on behalf of the SNSD club, I join the congratulations and good wishes of Mr. Lozančić for further leadership... Parliament and gratitude to the current chairman. Although he comes from the SNSD, so we shouldn't praise him very much, but I especially thank 12 for the night he survived BiH's adoption of the necessary laws it has dealt with for several years. Although some here have staged orgies in Parliament not to, but he has stood by it and, behold, I want to thank him publicly for it, because it was good for BiH, although some wanted it to be different that night. It took nerves to endure everything that was going on here and all those who should be ashamed of what they were doing that night. Dear colleagues from the SDP, federal, or Bosniak SDP, I have a few things to say. I mean, I have to say, since the situation on the ground is what it is, we haven't dealt with you in a long time, you weren't important. The last time Mićo dealt with you in Doboj was when you had nothing to do with Doboj. Mićo, take us, accept us! You're our only one, and that was the story. That's, as... I remember, yesterday was. You were told it wasn't a problem, you're small. Or grow up, you'll be respected. You won't grow up like this. You won't grow up like this. Because if you were being priscipious, you should have Mića Mitchi in Doboj some of the things you're saying right now, not asking him to replace Reiss. That's when you were doing it, not him talking. Why are we running this thing? When you ask us, we wanted this story about this SDP and the anti-Bosnian Herzegovina SDP, because what you've been doing for the past few months has been directed against the state of BiH: the collapse of reform laws, the destruction of state laws, the destruction of everything that has been agreed upon. On behalf of BiH, let us tell you that, given that we have a time for European integration, we have a little problem with you in the international community. We have a problem because you are the only political party in the parliamentary group of European political parties that has this legacy that you have been silent about, because by muddling others, you managed to pull something so that we... now say in the Council of Europe and everywhere: why should the SDP support an important restitution law that is important to this country. Why would people support it when they have a direct interest in not supporting it! Direct interest. With all politicians, there are many regulations and conflicts of interest, I don't know what not to look for, and it should be sought. So that citizens can at least be accepted in some way, as far as possible. That goes for political parties, too. How the political parties that basically have this, what they have, that they've come up with the assets that they've come up with, how tomorrow they're going to stand for fundamental social values. Since this Europe, which she did not want, is all gone now, she did not want to take communism when we took it – never mind, we took it when we took it – but she asks that human rights be with all others and respect and rights to property, as private property. If the old foreign savings that once deposited money... into a certain bank and they don't want to and shouldn't give up their money, why hundreds of thousands of people... and you know exactly what money the buildings are funded from and made of, why! You have the opportunity to do so voluntarily, no one needs to force you, no law, no regulations. I think it's consistent with what you're saying, but the problem is that what you're saying... is demagogy, and if it's not demagogy, you have the opportunity to return publicly. However you pay back that property, we're in agreement, either to the poor or to anyone you want, or to give it to someone, just in some way to come to zero, as well as hundreds of political parties in BiH, small, large associations that start from that zero. Everyone was moving from zero, only you weren't moving from zero. I don't think it's correct. And we can't explain it. Whatever international standard you want to tell people, but we didn't do it, we didn't panic you, we didn't sue you, we didn't talk about it. The fact is, we've had a lot of pressing problems that 13 of us have been dealing with and we need to deal with. And we've searched our nearer past, and we need to search it as far as possible, but we have a feeling that you think we've forgotten that past.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18334	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18335	That's what I'm gonna end up with. Why is there no lustration in BiH? Why didn't we open the files in BiH? Why don't we do that if we're all this other stuff? And I agree with all of this, however much time it allows us to search. Now, if we'd probably done that, then we'd have an entire period behind us, if we'd all face the past, the past, whatever it is, whatever it is... if it was, she's now, she's behind us. And I'm looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18336	Shall we wait that, we have more for the replica, or right away. Let's let our colleagues... and they... manifest themselves. Dear Representative Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18337	Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, allow me, first of all, to congratulate you on your choice and to tell you that I will make it really easy for you. However, it seems to me that the desire of all of us to make it easier for you, you have expressed it well, thank you for that. I'd just like to replicate some things. We're taking the initiative on condition that it's not an immediate confiscation. We're taking the initiative after we've seen the situation. If it's a confiscation, they have institutions that will take it away and we absolutely agree with it. But let us come to the argument and talk. Therefore, this initiative can go according to the same proposal: to go to a committee that, let's say, accept it and give the task. But I can't accept the regrets of those who were, I'd say, the great members of the SK today are asking me or the SDP to return the property. Bahtić, set up an account for the SDP, since you were a longtime member of the SK, tell me how much it is, and I know it was your wish, your will, like everyone sitting here, and they were members of the SK. No reason, no reason to be ashamed of it. This wasn't communism, this was a socialist self-government that had its second tendency. Responsibilities for everything... let's establish lustration, absolutely agree. I'm afraid that the lustration, the ones... you pick up on, would be clean, and the ones who keep quiet here, so they can answer, but about that afterwards. So I suggest we make a statement here, that here he goes to the commission that will establish this proposal that we have proposed. So, yeah... The Council of Ministers finds a modus to go out with the material and, as our esteemed colleague said, after that material, we open the debate, with one note that after this, if we accept it this way, next time there will be an initiative to establish that some parties have reached more capital within 13 years than SDP's capital. So, no problem at all, we can go in there, but that's... that I wouldn't want to do. Therefore, 14 I believe that the state should do its job, the institutions of the state should do their job and I think it will be correct then.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18338	I have to say I can't wait for you to let me stop helping so let me really put this proposal on the line, but... as long as you help me, I'll let you help me. Dear Representative Novaković: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18339	You see, first of all, I don't know why my colleagues are nervous... when we're having this debate because we've led a lot of these discussions to their initiatives here and lost hours and hours. Sometimes, sometimes quite empty initiatives, sometimes useful initiatives, of course, so I don't really see the need to have this kind of discussion about whether something's going to be on the agenda or not... I think we should approach the plea later when we have any or no support for the agenda, and only then enter into the essence of the debate, as my colleague Marković suggested that I wait for the debate and find out what, apparently, I was the only one who didn't know in this Parliament. This is where I answered, first of all, to replicate to my colleagues and to raise one disagreement or principled question. Namely, several sessions ago, on behalf of the SDS Club, I proposed one item of the agenda concerning the work of the Regulatory Agency for Communications. I was asked to deliver the starting material for that point so that it could be found on the agenda. I got an initiative from the SDP Club today to get something on the agenda without any material. What is the difference between what we suggested in writing before or between the sessions and those who directly suggest in the session without any material? Did I make a mistake not making a suggestion like this, not delivering it in writing and asking it to be put on the agenda? So, we, not for this one, but for any initiative, without the starting material, will not vote in the future, regardless of what we are the opposition and whatever we are from such, perhaps, initiatives could draw some small political benefits. So, I'd like to ask and now the promoters to prepare the materials so that we can make sure that we put that on the agenda at all and then...to conduct the debate. And finally, I'm really asking my colleagues from the SDP not to take away our exclusivity...about the discussion of the RS government building. It's... our right and don't take it from us what we're going to do there in the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18340	The following has been registered for the correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18341	Well, it's a good thing you didn't give me your word right now, I have two incorrect allegations. So, Mr. Bećirović said that we all saw that Dodik had given someone support. I didn't see it, so that's the first incorrect quote. The second is that Mr. Bešlagić said that everyone here was in the Alliance of Communists. That's also an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18342	Thank you. The next one was signed up for the replica by the esteemed MP Bahtić. In a row, we're just going in a row.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18343	First of all, I'm going to start with a cloned Mr. Bećirović who, normally, is a non-stop notor lie and has proved to be the successor of the Communist Party because he uses the blackest methods of the KGB. You'll find me a black cat in the dark, if you find a white cat, re-paint. Now, that's exactly what he says, he tried to do in Bihac but it didn't work out thanks to... SDP. And besides being hunters of other people's property, you've seen state property, they're hunters of souls. He who is not with them, who is a political inexperience, goes to destruction. They tried to direct it, they staged it, they cut it when a microphone was shoved into my mouth, it wasn't seen. So, and by the code of conduct, the journalist, he can't be a journalist... let alone record it if it's not official. That was before. It was the direction of the SDP, just to know what methods they were working on. Secondly, when you say they're all members of the Communist Union, believe me, I don't know. It was this membership thing. I've never been to a Communist Union meeting. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I mean, wait a minute, too, '96. For years, the SDA has joined me with the same methods as the SDP. I've never been to any session of the SDA but I was the biggest donor of the SDA in the Sanjski Most until June '96. when I took over the BiH Party. I'm not ashamed of it and I'm proud of it. But you, gentlemen dear, are by your methods how you work, the greatest evil. I suggested it, I suggested it, and I support it... The Restitution Act, so it's all citizens, right here, and they're building. And if you're paying, the black funds that you have, and through similar media you're recalibrating certain politicians, destroying certain people, you won't, gentlemen dear. And your paramilitary intelligence services that are your chief mentors and... I am not afraid of you, ever, and I will fight it my whole life because I know that you are the greatest evil in this country, the greatest, greatest brakers of democratic processes and the European path of BiH. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18345	I respect your need to tell each other how much you disagree, but I would ask all of you together to try to choose the words that you will do to each other. Here, for respecting all of us here and every single one of us. The next one was signed up for replica by the distinguished representative Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18346	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, from NGOs and the media, I thought I had a big problem with the former chairman, Mr. Živković, I was having a hard time getting to the replica, with you even worse. I'll zaželiću you successful work, but make sure you take care of it because I'm raising two hands. Well, then, when do I have to replicate?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18347	You're registered for the hearing and when you signed up for the replica, you're also registered.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18348	Now, everyone wished you successful work, and I will. I'm asking you for urgent information now, so an ambulance. What is the situation in front of this House? The SDP organisations that threaten us here with some pressures and I want to tell you openly: I am not a man who is afraid but we do not want to come to Parliament to work under pressure because with such action, the SDP wants to bring down Parliament and BiH. So, Mr. Chairman, I ask you for information after 11:05, is it 5 to 12 of this House, what is the state of Parliament? So, to report to us every 15 minutes, not you, but our services, is that SIPA, is that, I don't know, internal security: What happens in front of Parliament? Who organized these people, why brings them to Parliament, and what is the objective of the SDP? So first that information, it's crucial, and then we're going around all of the initiatives that have been launched. I'm at the last session when they were cameras – I don't know what they're not today, I really liked – I said we'd start this initiative. There's no party on this, which the people would say to the world or to the dunes, but what we know that won't do this kind of thing, all of it... tell you but it's pushing you through the main thing. Now, they're not against SNSD, but they're going to tell you that it's a government building, and they're not against SNSD, but they're going to tell you that someone once shared the medal and has nothing to do with this initiative. Here, I'm not defending anyone, let them all answer, but this was exactly calculated. Why did SNSD President Milorad Dodik receive an order as an MP? So, it's all clear here. He got an order from a man who wasn't, first of all, accused, who wasn't a war criminal, he's not today either. I'm not defending him. So, it's all calculated, only to SNSD through every sentence, but, well, we're not going against SNSD, we're not going against this. So, crucially - retaining Parliament so that we can get through these points a little faster - I ask you, if possible, to really get this situation in front of parlament and to see what happens to this union action. I'm sorry they collected 0.5 of the fening only on the SDP initiative, so it was thought that I would receive on behalf of the MPs and present 17 to a humanitarian organization. But believe me, to embarrass myself, something 4,000. Here, I'll... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please. Here, we will make a contribution from Parliament to increase it a little bit. Brooke would be if they were to move with that kind of action. Well, then, let's take that unfortunate union and, I don't know, who everyone in the Federation is. And I don't want to do it today, and I was ready and I'm waiting when I'm going to receive that medal of gold shovels, but I'm not going to get a shovel here in front of Parliament or some stick because I've been doing it too much in various situations, so please, the chairman, here to provide us with normal conditions, that here, what, I can sit down, not that I... out of the window, because they'll recognize me and then they'll say, you know how it is. So, I think that's the key, and then we'll see what we can do with the SDP. In the end, they will bring themselves down, because they don't need any initiative. They don't exist in the RS. Practically, they have two or three leaders pushing but I don't know why. And here let them fight in the Federation if Mr. Bahtić and this team let them do something but I don't think they will, so we don't need to talk much about it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18350	Please, a little no comment from the bench. ... I'll answer you right now. I have no information that anything is happening in front of Parliament. I believe that there are appropriate services in this country that must guarantee the safety of all citizens and, in particular, ensure that the work of the immaculate Parliament and other institutions is carried out. And if they estimate that there are certain reasons why Parliament's work is not safe, I believe they will inform us in good time. /Shortly Interrupted Recording/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18351	Don't give me five minutes, because I'm weak with my health, I can't run. You have to tell me 20 minutes before I evacuate from here. I can't walk, Mr. Lozančić. Take care of my health or I'll leave right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18352	I won't, I won't answer the line. The next one was signed up for the replica by the esteemed representative of Lagumdžija. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18353	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very short. I'm sorry we got into this situation. This is obviously a skillful little trap for everyone not to actually talk about what's most important on the agenda today, at least as far as the public's concerned, and that's... this shameful bill of wages. But we'll get there, we'll get there, whatever this is, turn it around, turn it around, SDP like this, we'll get those salaries, so this is all for nothing. I answered, among other things, because it's been said here several times that we from the SDP only fight when the cameras are on. Here, as you can see, the camera is gone, although some... thought they were cameras. ... There's no cameras, so we still want to tell you a few things. To those who complain that they started from scratch, unlike the SDP, I'm offering you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition that you've all come from zero, put your property on camera, yours from zero, and here we are changing. Here's the entire SDP property, you give it to us. Now, here you are in Parliament... If the president of your party will, gentlemen of the SNSD that you have run, here I offer him all my property to him – from a regular university professor who is a little older than him, a little more serious references behind him have been professional – if he wants to take everything I have, let him give me what he's acquired, especially lately. So,... Mr. Chairman, perhaps, if I may help you, I've tried to formulate one item of the agenda, if you want information about it. I also suggest that this proposal for a conclusion given here, I think, I am sure the Council of Ministers will act on this, because here it says they are doing something by law and that everything that is illegal to resolve, so you do not need Parliament's conclusion. Gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, please do, this is your job to do everything by law, this conclusion of yours. If you want, from this discussion of yours, from your proposal, the item of the agenda that is actually called, it may be the right: the political, financial and legal aspects of the situation in the SDP and the behaviour of its president. That could be the point of the agenda. Mr. Živković suggested to us, told us he was happy at the congress. Watch the agenda: Happiness at a party convention. I mean, there's nothing we can do about the concret, it can be the point, you have the majority to put it as a part of the agenda. We're ready to talk about it too. But a few incorrect things that were said here. Don't insult us, no matter what, no need, no need. The SDP, okay, there it is, but you don't have to speak first, rudely... is to deny people who are in the SDP that they can be anything but Bošnjak. It's rude, it's offensive, it's offensive. So, in the end, Mr. Chairman of the SNSD Parliament Club, since you have directly stated here, it is not the first time that someone from your party... that the president of the SDP in Doboj asked Mića to change his reis. It's one dung, it's one primitive prank, it's, firstly, false, secondly, bordering on madness. If you think your 19 president is a man who can replace Reis, then you've gone a little too far. If you think the president of the SDP is a fool who asks another fool to relieve a religious leader, then you have a bigger problem than this point you're proposing. At the end of the day, your president's meeting was president of the SDA, me and the American ambassador, and everyone said it in a very clear way: that it was one faceless manipulation, and there's no need to bring it into Parliament. And if you want to put that item on the agenda, that's fine. So, anything can, but for nothing, you'll get to the Payments Act and you don't have to worry, we'll ask for a break at 12 o'clock to go to Parliament. We have, we've called in a number of people who signed the petition, a hundred thousand people signed a petition, we've said to come only on the delegate principle to hand this over, to address them, you're invited. If anyone wants to speak at that rally, support these salaries, last time I told you,...if you want to invite others who support you for these salaries, we'll turn to them. No problem at all. Here, I invite you to address this rally, to talk about these salaries, how great it is, and I guarantee you that no one will shovel you with gold, no gold, no fly. It's going to be a peaceful set, a few hundred people will come here to say fine: people, don't give this support to... give for these wages, to stop this and nothing else. You don't have to be afraid. Here, we'll ask for a break, invite you at 12 o'clock to go together to talk to these people. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18354	Thank you. Next for the replica, distinguished representative Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18355	I thank you, Chairman. I thought I'd keep this line quiet, but I've already heard incorrect allegations twice, so I don't say a harsh word spoken by the SDP's representative about it – as Mr Bešlagić said today, I'd like to listen – that they were all in the Union of Communists. Husein Nanić was not in the Alliance of Communists, Husein Nanić had problems with the regime and his family. It is that I was persecuted to be a part of it as an exemplary, excellent student, however, and twice it is presented in means of informing by SDP representatives today. Do not make false allegations and do not deceive the public here. And here, here I am, richer today for a new knowledge that the SDP did not give up the non-democratic regime but that he is proud of it and the heir. I really had confidence, in these past years behind us, that SDP was a social democratic party.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18356	The second deputy president, Živković, applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18357	I don't want to replicate about fools and fools, everyone will be there, or about the low and ground-based beginnings that we had here every day by the SDP. I want to say that I understand, and we all know that the SDP has a problem, and not just one. We understand the frustrations of the party's representatives because your civil BiH programme has failed. And frankly, with the party running like that, you haven't even had a chance to succeed that program. After that, you tried to impose yourself, except for some of you, as Bosniak leaders but, with clumsy and tasteless practice and interpretation of faith, it didn't work out either. So, gentlemen, obviously we can't help you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18358	The next one was registered by the distinguished representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18359	Dear colleague Lagumdžija, you shouldn't be nervous. I think you should... pause to calm the thing down and... You... accept that... as we have accepted all the discussions in this House, I don't know why you're nervous. And if it takes time to calm that anxiety, it's not a dispute. We were talking about a principled thing that you want to blur and which, you catch yourself, I think you need to turn back, but that's your problem. All this stuff you were saying about the Doboj meeting, Mr. Lagumdžija, I read in ten Sarajevo media. I wasn't at that meeting. Whether they believed before me or they didn't and whether you asked for it or not, I'm not saying that, I wasn't in that meeting. But you won't say it's inconclusive media then. That they were all fools in those media that, like they believed, and if they were, and if they weren't. But you asked for that meeting and it's untasteful that your fellow MPs are returning you to '92, and you were with Mitch in Doboj yesterday. Then there you are, someone here was dishonest. We have ruled with you in the RS and the biggest problem was in RS with the SDP, they do not want with the Party for BiH and the SDA. Is there any way we can do it alone? There we had the biggest problem with you, when we made... power there. They didn't want to go in the same door with these two parties. That's how it was. What's all of a sudden turned around? We've asked you a question in principle, it's democratic for you to determine yourself accordingly. The story of someone's private property, about crime and everything else, we didn't mention today, we left it all behind. You are right, they have judicial institutions but here a democratic question is asked: Can a democratic political party, in a mile like this in BiH, that with the property of the former state, which the same party has decided in the way it decided, because it could, it had the power to book half of Sarajevo or Banja Luka on itself, is that fair? If in all other fields we insist on rights, on international standards, why did we come into a situation that was only on this and we'll face it. And you will face it, no matter how much you run away from it, you will face it. That it is impossible, that you will not take the legacy of the communists when the crimes were ordered, when the files were as they were, what Mr. Bešlagić said, should be recognized. If we've told war crimes to open up anything that can be opened, and it needs to be opened, but why is it standing there closed and not opening and under the threat of... finding who needs to be. If we're fair people, we'll open everything up, if that's what we're gonna do. But this insistence that one part of history remains as smooth as the great, and the other as absolutely dark, will not pass. It doesn't matter what I think about it, but it's not fair. I know she's got you nervous about that story, but she's real, she's here, she's waiting for you. You 21 should say in Srazbur, here's if you took us to say the blackest, that we're all the worst here, but you should say about that segment. Do you know, why Strazbur didn't accept communism and the communist past, and that's how he got himself property? Why has everyone else in communism democratically and in these countries in transition resolved all these relations with communism in a fair way, with which Europe is satisfied, you will have to do so yourself as an example to others. You don't have to wait for any procedures or anything else. And we didn't personally respect anyone for anything but one principled question because you in this country gave lectures on everything and everything, and you have, there, it's missing, and then you should go there by yourself, and there wouldn't be any pay problems. So we're looking for an argument, Mr. Lagumdžija, is that like you're threatening to scare us? Well, we're here today to discuss the state's pay law. You haven't offered any alternative here at any time but noise. And we don't have any problems with the protests either, but we were headed for those protests in Sarajevo when that kid was killed, so you saw what it ended up on. Suddenly, the quarry was created, people were killed, everything was broken. You want to go out there today so we can trap some rocks. Where do people get the stones if they come for peaceful protests? That's how it was, that's how it was. Is that what we need today? We don't have any problems with the people, we don't have any, believe me, in Sarajevo or anywhere we don't have any problems with the people, but it would be good for you to think about the extent to which they have provided – whether these are multiethnic protests, if you claim to be a multiethnic party and that in this way you can... organise it. And I wish you every happiness for every gathering to be in the highest possible number, I guess it's just a condition for it to be disciplined and democratic, that there's no stones. I mean, it's not fair.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18360	Thank you. E, the next is the distinguished representative Bešlagić: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18361	I'd like to, first of all, if I said they were all, I said, maybe I'm, I'm sorry to everyone, but I told all those who were, and there are plenty of them. So, I apologize. All those who think I called them members, I'm talking about members of the Communist Union who were members of the Communist Union and that's why I said there were a lot of them in this House. So, I apologize, if I called someone, and I shouldn't, and it's my human right and I get one more time... And as for these things, I'd like to ask you to... Parliament adopts a proposal that will be examined and the materials delivered to... discuss these things, nothing more. I think we're straight to the limit here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18362	Next is the distinguished representative Kadrić: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18363	Here, I'll take the opportunity, before the replica, to congratulate the chairman on... taking the lead... The House of Representatives. I really want to wish him a successful job. I have no doubt that Mr. Lozančić will do this work in a satisfactory way, of course, and before Mr. Živković, in the circumstances in which we are, did it really well. I want to replicate here, in fact, as some sort of correction to the wrong allegations issued by the honourable MP, honourable and esteemed MP Bećirović when he twice said that the SDP was defending BiH and that he would defend it. Okay, there's a stenogram, so the SDP has defended BiH and will continue to defend it. I want to say that the SDP,... considering that the SDP,... as we heard, the political and legal successor of the Communist Union, and I want to say that the SDP was poorly defending..., unfortunately defending BiH, especially during that preparatory period when it was necessary to prepare... the people and the state in defense... BiH since aggression. Because it is known that the then alliance of communists feared the Yugoslav People's Army and within six days, the complete weapons of territorial defense handed over JNA and, of course, the people and states had no... to defend themselves. So, the SDP, then the Communist Union is bad, it defended badly, it misprepared the people and the state for BiH's defence.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18364	Next replica: the esteemed representative Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18365	Well, I'll cut it down to the minimum. ... I wouldn't look back on this Remzija thing, this surrender, defense, etc. Whoever was standing at the head of that party at the time, you put for the bearers, right, your list of names of your party, Mr Nijaz Duraković, so there's no need to talk about it. What else am I proposing? I suggest we get back to the agenda. We didn't need this today. I don't think you SNSD need to be free of this entire parliament to be the hostage of your obsession with the SDP. He knows everyone alive that you have a problem with SDP, you've had, you'll have and we'll deal with it another way. We from the SDP came today to deal with the agenda ahead of us. So, serious things and topics. If you've tried that little, little provocation to turn away, you've tried, and you haven't succeeded, and what you're going to do now. Especially don't give lessons here now... who's pro-European, who's not a pro-European party. Don't do it for a few reasons. First, do not do this because the SDP was admitted to the society of the European Social Democrats in '99. years of people like Gerhard Šreder who stood at the head of Germany, Toni Blera, who led British laborers and was one of the prominent in Internacional, not to speak to the president of France, Sweden, etc. These people certainly know and appreciate who the Social Democrats are, etc. And the seal of social democracy will not be given to you, but someone else will. And he said hiss, at the same time as we were admitted to Internacional, the current RS Prime Minister Dodik, with two MPs, became prime minister in RS, with the assistance of late Slobodan Milošević at the time. 23 And on these prizes and medals, this is the proposal of the agenda point, even though several interesting information has arrived from your club today, who is all decorated, so we are not burdening ourselves with this Parliament either. Let that be the point of the agenda. It would be better, therefore, to discuss serious topics, and not like this, if we had some circulation here, as it was, of one of the most prominent members of the Party for BiH and the symbols of the Party for BiH, Mr Bahtić, from which we still haven't fenced, but the Party for BiH has sent one message, and today, again, by the name of the Party for BiH, says it was all someone's direction, not his one vandal process. I ask myself again: really, was it a directorship or does the BiH Party have a different opinion? If there is, let it be fenced by a man. Here, the man repeats it again, seems to think that we'll be, in that parish, two or three weeks, the people will forget it, and I'll do whatever I want again. Here, right now, I'm interested in whether it's the whole BiH Stanka's position to be directed or whether it's one again... slightly speaking, Mr. Bahtić's trip?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18366	Thank you. Next replica: Honorable representative Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18367	I allow, dear colleague Bećirović, that you are a historian, but I must tell you immediately. Your incrimination on SNSD's account this time, which refers to Mr. Milorad Dodik coming along with the assistance of Slobodan Milošević is an orthodox untruth, in the mildest form. I was an MP when Mr. Milorad Dodik was elected Prime Minister. I know perfectly well what Milorad Dodik's relationship was to the regime of Slobodan Milošević from the beginning, and then. And I must tell you that such attempts and stories about the RS are all the same as someone absolutely does not serve you the honor and at the same time contribute neither to reconciliation nor democracy in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18368	Dear Representative Rajilić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18369	Well, here, Mr. Chairman, congratulations on taking office, but obviously today is a hot day, so many replicas, but obviously, when colleagues from the SDP are recognized like this, it has to be a hot day. Here, either a replica or a curved quote. Mr. Denis Bećirović says you failed. What didn't we do? Did we vote that, Denise? Did this get into the agenda when you say you failed? You've obviously recognized yourself and now you're telling other colleagues: don't vote for this so they don't accidentally discuss us without saying that we've been through a session about the characteristics of fascist organizations, or banning their actions, etc. We ran a big controversy here and one big nothing on your initiative, so you get some political... points. Mr. Bešlagić, I was a member of the Communist Union, and that's why I'm looking for this debate, but I want my membership fee back, not just used by the SDP. So, put it back, buddy, you took it, give it back a little bit. So that story goes, too. And as for the participation of your 24 in the Socialist International, you want to talk a little bit about icabans in the SDP? You want to say who these people are, how you pretend to be some party out there, and then you sit around in the parties. So they say, we're the only multiethnic ones, etc. There's a story going on, and when there's a realisation, there's nothing. I don't think that's right, because some people sit there like scribes, and they just write like they say, and then they hand it over to the media to see who said what, and then, there in the media, they say this, he says that, and they don't get a stenogram. They receive from you what is written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18370	Honorable representative Jovičić: replica. Is it a replica? It's a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18371	First, one relaxing information for all colleagues. While I sit here in Parliament, so don't worry. It's a paraphrasing message from Ljubi's grave. As long as that voice is heard there, therefore Parliament will not fall, today it will not fall. I'm sitting here, I'm not going to run, there's a sound I see set, there's about 50 people, so as much as you get together, I'd like to talk to them too. But here's to honoring SNSD how we, well, complicate the situation around the agenda, bring out everything and everything, come on, kind of hold out for us to do the same thing. But the situation here is complicated by the SDP that this parliament has begun to work in the new assembly. There's no point that hasn't tried to contradict itself, in both regular and emergency, and I don't know what procedure, and I don't know what kind of door it is, with some deviations, waiting, proposing, etc. When I told you about the medals, I was looking for that information. All MPs in the National Assembly were then given what the people would say, "linear" medals, so whoever was there did not matter what merits he had, but that was legitimate at the time. At the time, the man was neither accused nor war criminal, nor today. I'd like you to find him. You're looking for him as soon as you can to take the mortgage off of us, here's the one you're always respecting. I'm directing Milošević, so when are you going to stop? A man died, you don't have to give him meaning, but stop that story! What do you tell us, Milošević, when none of us sitting here have ever seen in person, at least that. You know how President Dodik has just had animosity terrible toward that regime and is being persecuted, and today you say he's being set up. And even if that were the case, it was better than if you had set it up, because you would have fallen out of power, because you have no influence whatsoever. So whatever... it won't work, please don't honor us here when we have problems to explain to the Serbian people. Why didn't you here support that agreement about... Serbian Orthodox churches? So now it's gone to a different field. If you had done so then, we would have congratulated you on multiethnicity, understanding the position of the Serbian people, the Serbian Orthodox Church, etc. So please, come on, do something constructive. Here, you resent us today what we're as complicated as we are, under the supposed signs, this situation. But not every session – here, we will give up everything, and you give up – that you are constantly contradicting the story that you are the only break on the way to Europe, as you represent all the peoples, as it is up to you that the 25 fates of this country, as all of us in this parliamentary majority, and you like to say someone in coalition relations. And I've explained to you a hundred times that there's no coalition here, that all of this was done by making people decide and we didn't choose partners in the Federation, nor did the Federation choose partners in RS. But no one wanted you, so... that's how this combination is made, which is working, and that you try to take down every time, you plant one on us, most of all, to us, of course, the second time, when it bothers the SDA and you find them, step up, here they are today and they don't have to answer. Well, then you're looking for a party for BiH when they're supposed to vote for us and support us. And you're always looking for some combinations so you establish a good relationship with the SDS, so when you see that they turn their backs on you, you attack them, too. And you're doing everything you can to complicate the situation in this country. I understand your position, I understand, but let's go together for at least one question to be found.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18372	I'm asking for some attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18373	Here I go. We find ourselves on one issue that really when we define something in this House that is in the interest of the people, the citizens, as you pretend to be just protecting, to push it through, not just with these actions. I really want you to... hold a democratic protest there. But who did you invite? The Serbs are not interested in any of your initiatives in RS at all, I told you a hundred times. You want me to tell you again? Do the survey, referendum, what do you want to do! _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's not 20 minutes, it's the same for you. Here, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18375	Business intervention: Honorable representative Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18376	I think we have a nice trip today in this debate. We have this conclusion proposed by the SNSD, so we have an SDP position that doesn't run away from that story, and I suggest 10 minutes of breaks to agree, to deliver to us a conclusion that this Parliament can accept.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18377	So, is there anyone else willing to help me through the replicas? If he doesn't, if he doesn't, is it a debate or a replica? _________(?) It's a debate. 26 There's more people to argue, so I'm asking for replicas. The president of the SNSD Club had already asked for a break. This isn't a request for a break, it's a suggestion, here's to be made, so I said we'd take a break after the replicas are all... over. So, 10 minutes, we move on at 11:45. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18380	Mr. Chairman, we've asked for a break to consult on these two proposals. We insist that the SNSD proposal enters as a part of the agenda for reasons to allow for the proper formulation of our request to the Council of Ministers, so, in this debate we also allow for the reformation, but that the Council of Ministers still receive the final task of... doing so, and in the debate we would agree that this final formulation would be. And we accept that this initiative by colleagues Bećirović is heading towards the Kolegijum and as the Kolegijum is determined, it is not disputed.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18381	I thank the esteemed representative Kalabić. The next person reported for the debate is the esteemed representative Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18382	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18383	Honored representative Novaković: business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18384	Mr. Chairman, I must warn again: Mr. Bećirović's initiative is not business, we have no material. So we have to have the material. We adopted amendments to the Rules of Procedure in which we said that the applicant must deliver the material. I ask you, this initiative in this form cannot be the subject of voting today at all. We need 27 to get some material to discuss. When we get the material, then we'll get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18385	I'm glad you're helping me, but when we get to the point where you allow all of us to begin a plea, I'm going to give some information that, hopefully, will remove your concerns.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18386	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18387	Is it the same business? Dear Representative Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18388	So it is very clear in the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives in Article 65 that this matter is being solved. And there are no obstacles to this being a part of the agenda at the next session, and I am particularly surprised... by Mr. Novaković, given that he has voted several times over the past year on these initiatives where we've been in charge of the Council of Ministers to check certain things... and after that, we've had discussions. What's the problem now? It is not a problem to find out who Radovan Karadžić has decorated. Because you've been working on the same points so far, it's now suddenly a problem when we need to have a agenda point to see the decorations of Radovan Karadžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18389	Thank you. Who are you?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18390	Well, you see!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18391	Is it a replica, what is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18392	Business, business.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18393	Business one more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18394	Look, I'm asking my colleague Bećirović to read the amendments to the Rules of Procedure we adopted about two months ago. It is not about Article 65, but about amendments to the Rules of Procedure after that crowd here which was around the Rules of Procedure before the initialling of the Agreement, where we have defined 28 that the Proposer must have material. Please, this isn't about article 65. You have to read it to see that you can't suggest it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18395	Another business intervention: the respected representative Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18396	I would only like to see a colleague, Novaković, and for this previous point, proposed by SNSD, see the material. Where are the laws that regulate this matter, where are the proposals, where is the full regulation? So why is it so controversial to go without material with some text... which I'm not going to characterize now, and here's the problem, is, when you call, here, specifically at Article 65 (1), in which we're in charge of the Council of Ministers. I suppose, Mr. Novaković, you should be the first to support this proposal to see who was decorated by war criminal Radovan Karadžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18397	Thank you. I'm asking the honourable MPs and the MPs to take their seats. The word has a respected representative Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18398	This question, which the SNSD has raised today, will sooner or later have to come to the agenda. The way they will come and how they will come, how we will debate, and what the final conclusion will be, we will see. But what I wanted,... perhaps to complement a small initiative... and, in my opinion, to propose one conclusion, is: The BiH Council of Ministers is in charge of launching a legal procedure that would identify the assets of the former Alliance of Communists BiH, the former Socialist Alliance of the Workers' People of BiH and the former Alliance of the Socialist Youth of BiH and the former Union of the Trade Union of BiH, and that the fate of the entire assets of former socio-political organisations is legally resolved, which so far has not been done. Just a brief explanation. All of us, or at least, to be precise, most of us here know that, in addition to the property held by the Federation of Communists of BiH, the great property had the Socialist Union of the Workers' People of BiH, that large, also significant assets had these two other socio-political organisations... The Alliance of Socialist Youths of BiH, as well as the Union of BiH. If we're going to talk about an independent union, then, and declare ourselves a legal follower, something here, here, I don't like those two things. The BPS has been a parliamentary party since '98. For years and all these years, both at the canton level and at the state level and at the municipality level and at the entity level, they've been trying to get space to work in every way possible. We got an almost basement room in Sarajevo for the party's work, almost the basement room. And that's in... The Federal Tax Administration. And that problem actually just started because we got space, some little space, in almost basement rooms, and we didn't get an adequate parking spot and trust me that trauma every day came to work there. Thanks to the understanding of the Director of the Federal Administration, this is the problem 29 we are dealing with in a way, but with the indolence of the Director of the Joint Institutions Ihtijarevic, who, as such, is acting as to change the power and he changes the party's... color. We also have this problem with state-level rooms and not to talk about cantons and entities. Therefore,... if we are to take a principled stand, and in principle we advocate that all these issues are resolved in a complex and complete manner, then my proposal is to address all these assets, not only the Alliance of Communists of BiH but also these two, or three other organisations, and to regulate the law in the way it will be used. Whether this parliament will undo some earlier legal solutions,...is it able to undo or bring new legal solutions, but this issue deserves attention and Parliament needs to be made known about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18399	Thank you. Next, or is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18400	... It's business. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18401	Business intervention: esteemed representative Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18402	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the SDP Club, I'd like to request a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18403	A half-hour stand on the SDP Club proposal. Continuing at 12:35. [[PAUZA]] We have, we have just 22... so we can work... so... and 23. The previous break was requested by the SDP Representatives' Club. Does he want to be obvious about it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18405	Havala na.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18406	Dear Representative Križanović, president of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18407	Thanks for the break. The SDP club we have previously undertaken. Thank you for letting us do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18408	I thank you. We've got reports now, so I'll read it in a row, for discussion, we've got a report for discussion, if you'll allow me to continue my work, so let's work. ... Honorable representative Jovičić, distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović, distinguished representative Raguž and distinguished representative Dokić. In this order. The word has a distinguished representative, Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18409	The esteemed chairman, therefore, remains at the SNSD's side of his proposal proposed by a prominent counterpart Marković. And I suggest that this point be placed immediately under regular number 18 and that this point 18. The approval of ratification shall be a point of 19. So, our requirement is to put this point on the agenda, and then through the debate we can define that the final form would be the proposal of this conclusion, by, of course, extending this topic through the debate, not only to the Alliance of Communists of the SDP, as they say to the legal follower, and to the Auto-Moto Alliance, and to the Fair Alliance and all of these institutions that someone has adopted, and they were the joint institutions of BiH in that system, so again in the system where the only party was in power, it is the Union of Communists, etc. Now that I've reported for the debate, this shows today and my fear that, fortunately, there will be no big demonstrations here, and I don't really want to provoke anyone, to make a cartoon out of something that doesn't need this Parliament. I don't know if I'm going to disappoint my colleagues at the SNSD Club, cheer them up, because I don't know their mood, and I'm getting closer to the initiative, but it's my private question, to form a party, because if in every city in RS I don't perform 250 at least as many people as the SDP carried out its members today, then politics is irrelevant to me, I don't need to deal with it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, you will always be on the agenda, because you were eight months earlier when he was chairman of Mr. Živković, including Mr. Belkić, because you always complicated the situation. Here, we seem to be complicated today, but we won't. We have entered into a very tolerated democratic debate and I have informed you in the last session that we are going to come out with this initiative now in the form of conclusions and suggestions to just put this into the agenda, and then we will see what the Council of Ministers and what... a legal solution will propose, which must, of course, be binding on all those who think it is just the property of one party and return it to the people. And it was already here in the discussions of some proposals, someone said 31 to the poor and, I don't know who, here, I told the public then, and today I'm going to repeat: I paid and I was a member of the Communist Union, I, for a reason slightly greater than my dear colleague, Nanić, had to be, because at that time you couldn't work in the local community, not the state institution, if you weren't a member of the Communist Union. But, well, we're not gonna talk about any worse systems, we're gonna talk about the relapses of that system, so we're gonna open all the questions here, but don't spread the subject to illustrations now and, I don't know, open files, this one, that one. Let's see what's going on with that property. And in our opinion it's huge property and it needs to be returned to the people, as we fight in some other things that property robbed by privatization also returns... to workers etc. etc. So, I'm going to cut my discussion short, because everything... is said today. With that proposal, where we're staying, to include this point, I've already said in what way and by what reasons. And another, in the end, since all of this seems to have been a reckoning today, under the supposed signs of two political parties, I will not say the same, but the social democratic orientations, although we are constantly suggesting that we are not, that this depends on their will, which of course is not true. So we're going to open up all these issues, and we're going to relax the situation a little bit politically, because I don't think there's going to be any more important legal projects like the Law of Salutation, when this particular party is raising everything, everything on its feet, the media, and I don't know that there are no cameras of this television today, which I've said on many occasions not whose it is, because I really don't know, but here, it doesn't at least favor the Serbian people in RS, but today everyone would be watching this because they're interested in these salaries. Just because the SDP raised it to all the bells and I'm just going to watch the situation when we adopt the law today, although it's not the point of the agenda now, whether any of the SDP MPs will give up, whether or not their mayors have given up higher salaries in municipalities than we will have with this law, etc., there are countless things. That's why I, Mr. Chairman, am asking you not to but I suggest that you put this item on the agenda, that it be placed on the agenda, and then we open a debate on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18411	I want to be very happy as soon as you let me. Business intervention: Honorable representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18412	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I congratulate you, Mr. Lozančić, on taking office as chairman, I thank Mr. Živković for his current presidency. I call on my colleagues, we've lost three hours already, to give up all further debates on the agenda, because I'm afraid, if we continue like this, that today we'll discuss everything a little bit from the agenda, without the adopted agenda, and without any order, after all. I ask you, if you do not have any new suggestions – do not be angry with my colleagues whose names you have read, I especially apologize to them for this – I invite you to stop the debate at this time. We have proposals, put on a vote, and let's get to the realization of the agenda, and since we've lost three hours, I ask you 32 to support the proposal to then leave the parliamentary questions for the next session, to go to the realization of the agenda points. That's it. Thank you and please put these of mine to the vote right now to... finish this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18413	Thank you. I still have to ask respected MPs: Are they,...do they give up the debate or stay in the hearings? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So, the honourable representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović remains: the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18415	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I would like to thank the previous chairman for the correct and quality management of these sessions, congratulate the new one on this trip and further improve what is possible. I just want a few things to do with this and, as Mr. Džaferović said, today we're talking about who's a member of the party... now, before, we're talking about the salaries of the MPs, I don't think either one of them is such a problem, not for this home, not for our country. I was not a member of the Alliance of Communists of the former Yugoslavia, nor a member of any other party until the establishment of the People's Party Work for the better, but I do not consider it my advantage, because I believe that the parties are tools for man to carry out a certain political vision, certain political goals. And if these tools are not good, they change to make and implement certain policies. Also, I think that paying MPs is not a problem, but the result that we have to make is the problem. If we consider that... for today alone we will have a deficit of 30 million marks and by that we can compare that should be the topic on which we can spend the day, not for something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18416	Thank you. The following has been reported by the esteemed representative Raguž. He's gone. Then the honourable representative Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18417	Well, Mr. Chairman, here I am also to take advantage of my first announcement since you took this helm to thank, above all, on behalf of, here are all PDP MPs, what my colleagues like to hear, the previous chairman, Mr. Živković, who, during a difficult period, endured what he endured. I want to make it easier for you, but given what we are, it seems to me that you will have to go to church more often to pray to Bog for your successful work. But here's another undertone, I'd like us to be much better than we were, if we sincerely want to help you as we announce that we want to help you. I think we should really end this debate here so far, which is on an entirely legitimate review initiative, now that I'm not repeating, I'm overgrown, I'm going to rake, in mutual insult, into a series of unargued statements and findings that are being made here, and that doesn't really serve the reputation of... this home. It seems to me that no one has disputed the legitimacy of this initiative, and I would ask you to put it on the agenda as soon as possible to put this on the agenda of today's sessions as a proposal to vote on and then the Council of Ministers will do their job and then we will have time on the basis of such an analysis to really debate this thoroughly and see if it's legal, is it legal, what if it isn't, what if it is. So, to get out of this situation, and here I am, and joining my colleague Džaferović, his proposal to eventually give up... parliamentary issues to really move on to these other points of the agenda, among which are very important laws for this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18418	Thank you. There are no more reports to discuss on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We have a proposal for a respected representative of Milica Marković. Should I read the name of the agenda point? You know. So the conclusion is, then, we have a proposal to name the agenda point, we have several proposals for possible conclusions on that agenda point, which we'll talk about after the debate on the agenda point, if we put it on the agenda of the session. So, please prepare for the vote on the proposal of the distinguished representative Marković. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'll read it. I've got it in front of me, so I'll read it. So, the draft item on the agenda, the proposal for a conclusion: on the borrowing of the BiH Council of Ministers to initiate a legal procedure that would identify the assets of the former SKBiH, and subtracting it from 34 current users, all in accordance with the legal rules. This is a proposal for a agenda item. We also have a proposal for a conclusion from the SNSD Club and other parties, but this is a proposal for a agenda point. Is the name of the agenda clear enough now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18420	I just want to ask. Are we going to treat both points of the agenda in principle, i.e. according to the proposal, since many quoted a member of the Rules of Procedure as saying that there should be adequate material. So I ask you very clearly, Mr. Chairman: Is there any relevant material to adopt this conclusion or are we going to act in such a way? Which means that even in the SDP proposal, there is no need for appropriate material. So, in principle, let's resolve it before the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18421	In principle, as regards this proposal for a agenda item, we also have a concrete proposal for a possible conclusion on this agenda point, which is sufficient material to discuss this agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18422	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18423	Here's your business again. Dear Representative Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18424	Well, isn't it the right material? That we have been delivered here by legislation, what the current situation is, how it is currently done, so that on the basis of this legislative regulation as serious people we see what needs to be changed or transferred. This way we really can't figure out that there's relevant material.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18425	I respect your right to think that's not enough material, but you respect the right that I think this is enough. If he's good enough, you'll come forward after the debate. But it's enough that a point can, in my opinion, be placed on the agenda if you accept it. And we move on to statements on the proposal of the distinguished representative Marković: on the inclusion of the agenda point. 35 Vote now! Is anyone looking for a repeat? Seeking a distinguished representative, Nanić, repeat. We repeat the vote. Vote now! I find the proposal accepted by 30 votes "yes", three "against", two "abstained" and a sufficient entity majority. We have a proposal for a respected representative, Bećirović, who refers to the 30th session of the House of Representatives, and today we set the agenda for the 29th session of the House of Representatives. This proposal will be made known to the College in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at the time of the appointment of the meeting of that House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18426	Just like this proposal was for the 30th, so it was transferred by the 29th, and I'm asking that we declare that this should be placed on the agenda, given that we're going in such a way that there's enough material here, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18427	I beg you, I beg you nicely,...so the debate on the proposals we have concluded, we have entered the stage of the plea. And please respect that fact. And we have a proposal for a respected representative, Dokić, who suggested that the agenda item Representatives' questions and answers be removed today from the agenda and here and Džaferović suggested the same. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! Proposed representative Dokić. I also find this proposal accepted by 28 votes "yes", two "against", one "abstained", with a sufficient entity majority. As we did not have any other proposals to include agenda items, i.e. to take down the proposed agenda points, I find that the Parliamentary House of BiH for the 29th session of the House of Representatives established the following 1. adoption of the minutes of the 28th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 3. Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices (second reading); 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Number Act (second reading); 36 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the identity of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on residence and residence of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 8. Proposal for a Law on the Fiscal Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 9. Proposal for a bill on salaries and fees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties (first reading); 11. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Domestic Production within the CEFTA Agreement – Proposer of Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović (first reading); 12. Report by the Joint Committee on the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the application and protection of the name of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 13. Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the proposals of representatives Zlatko Lagumdžija from the 9th joint session of both homes; 14. The appointment of the Chief Auditor and the Deputy Chief Auditor (candidate rank-list was submitted by the Commission for the selection of the Chief Auditor and Deputy Chief Auditor); 15. Consideration of the report of the Committees of the House for 2007 (a) Constitutional Legal Commission (b) Committee on Finance and Budget C) Committees on Foreign Trade and Customs d) Committees on Foreign Affairs e) Committees on Transport and Communications (f) Committees on Gender Equality 16. Review of the 2007 work report on the joint committees of both homes (a) the Joint Commission on Defence and Security (b) the Joint Security and Security Committee on the work of the BiH Security Agency (c) the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics (d) the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs (e) the Joint Committee on European Integration (f) the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development 17. Proposal for a conclusion on the borrowing of the BiH Council of Ministers to initiate a legal procedure identifying the assets of the former SKBiH and confiscating it from the current users, in accordance with the legal rules; 18. Giving consent to ratification (a) The Strasbourg Agreement on the International Classification of Patents, (b) the European Convention on the Non-Aging of Crimes against Humanity and War Crimes, (37 c) the Convention on the Protection of Intangible Cultural Heritage (UNESCO). And that would mean we would determine the agenda. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. Business intervention esteemed representative Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18429	Thank you. I intended to deliver through parliamentary issues and initiatives, what you received on the table, to ask for support, means: to task the Council of Ministers to do and to the Parliamentary Assembly to provide the Information on the readiness of BiH institutions to make commitments regarding the implementation of the Stabilisation of Association Agreement. Voting a new conclusion, I don't have it now, and I didn't want to burden the agenda with correctness to do so in this procedure. That's why I would... ask that this procedure continue through the College and through certain committees to get support, and I don't know the technology now, because I'm simply closed the possibility of running it as an initiative. And we think this is the point of the future, that we all need her.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18430	I thank the esteemed representative, Nanić... and thank him for his help,...real help. So,... I just want to meet you, means that all the parliamentary issues you have prepared can be delivered in writing to the College of the House to forward them to those to whom they are addressed, as well as the parliamentary initiatives you have, including this initiative by the respected representative Nanić. Is he okay? Moving to the first item of the agenda: Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 28th session of the House of Representatives Your record was delivered by fax on 9 May. Any objections to the record? I'm opening a debate. If not, I'll conclude the discussion on the 28th session. Moving to the second item of the agenda: Ad. 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH Authorities (Second Reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18433	Oh, two sentences. So I'm not going to repeat anything from the first reading debate. Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, we have received two amendments. The two amendments were discussed on the Constitutional Commission, adopted. The law was made within the Interresor Working Group. It represents not what BiH will ultimately need, but one step forward in relation to what we have today, a law important for this election process, and I propose that the House of Representatives adopt it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18434	I would like to thank the honourable representative Džaferović. We don't have any more logs.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18435	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18436	I'm just asking you to sign up on time. Dear Representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18437	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of government is a significant parameter of the functioning of the rule of law and the degree of presence of corruption in each country. According to the Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH institutions, it could get the wrong impression that the rule of law works perfectly in BiH and that we have no problems with corruption. In fact, we have an extremely restrictive Law on conflict of interest and yet we have serious problems with the functioning of the rule of law and extremely large problems with corruption. The reasons for this should be sought in the fact that today in BiH, in this transition time, there is almost no elected official who in one way or another has not been or who is not yet in conflict of interest, and therefore few are those who lacked hair from the head. A significant number of privatisations and other malversions in BiH have occurred and is still due to conflicts of interest. We have in BiH a paradox that, on the one hand, we have a restrictive Law on conflict of interest and, on the other hand, we are today passing laws that legalise conflict of interest. A classic example of this is the Law on the Federation of BiH Development Bank, which was passed a few days ago, which legalises what is this law clearly a conflict of interest. We have such examples in other laws and at all levels, we have as many ministers as you want, at various levels, which are members of the supervisory boards in public 39 companies, or companies with majority state capital, where it's even legal. Under the previous law and these amendments and additions, only conflicts of interest held by MPs can be effectively sanctioned, so that the Central Election Commission can take away their mandate. For others, it's almost unaffected in this case. The question then arises why such laws, because objectively I think the consequences of the conflict of interest are far greater and more difficult for officials in the executive power than for MPs. It also raises the question of how to comply with the law on conflict of interest in order to avoid conflicts of interest. These amendments and additions to the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina do not solve all the negativeities and shortcomings in the Law on Conflict of Interest but, in any case, introduce a little more order and shed light on the many dilemmas and indeterminates to which the law is burdened. Of course, there remains a large number of dilemmas, illogicalities and absurdities burdened by the Law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions. One of the absurdities was marked by a resorient working group in the form of an initiative which, behold, did not enter into the amendments and additions of the law. One of the absurdities is that, in this law, relatives and tasties have remained hostages of elected officials and vice versa, despite a slight reduction in this circle. So are these changes and additions of the Council of Ministers' Assistant Ministers in conflict of interest because his father-in-law is the director of a local utility in a municipality, which I personally consider absurd. These amendments and additions to the Law of Conflict of Interest are therefore a step forward in relation to what we now have and for this reason, and for the efforts of the Interresor Working Group, I will therefore support the same, of course with the limitations and dilemmas that I have made here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18438	I thank the honourable representative. I don't have any other applications.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18439	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18440	Dear Representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18441	Ladies and gentlemen, very short. When after two discussions that I respect and which have stated quite precisely what the situation is related to this law – and what Mr. Džaferović said, it is all so,... it is true what Col. Dolić said – and we in the SNSD, when we add it together, are not the most satisfied with this law. We intend to and, as far as I know, the discussion of MPs is here, it was predicted that a whole new Law on conflict of interest will be passed in BiH institutions and that we will have a new full legislative solution that will solve all these dilemmas, which we recognise to remain now after this. This is some kind of step, what he is, we can appreciate 40 now. We think very small, insufficient. And what's most difficult for us is that some of the dilemmas that have been current these days have remained unsolved by this law, which I don't think is good that in the course of parliamentary procedures, those things, if we couldn't get rid of those we didn't touch, at least that we were able to sort out those dilemmas that were imposed during the work in the Interresor Working Group. They made a contribution and probably tried. The specific situation regarding the harmonisation of this law and the attitudes is that a number of institutions participate in this. As far as anyone has the impact on the legal solutions themselves and whose, at this point, I'm not going to talk about it and whether or not they should have, whether they should have such a crucial impact on certain solutions to this law, I'm not going to evaluate it now, but the result of all these things is the fact that we have a law that we're not satisfied with. I think more patience, energy and strength should have gone to find and come up with a whole new bill that would resolve all these dilemmas that are almost shown every day and that we have observations, and at the same time we haven't taken advantage of our ability and our powers that allow us to resolve these dilemmas and pass a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18442	I thank the honourable representative. I just want to let you know, and I missed it, that there are members of the Central Election Commission here, so if there's any need, here's what I'm hoping they'll give the right answers. We have the following applications: Velimir Jukić, Branko Dokić and Martin Raguž. Dear Representative Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18443	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, other guests, this law is very interesting, very important, and I think that these amendments and additions that have been made have in one part improved the irregularities and inaccuracies of the existing law. However, I also think that it is not enough, I think it would be good that in some of the following, as soon as possible, the time approaches the making of new amendments and additions or possible, even, the creation of a new law, which, of course, would, based on the application of experiences and with this new law of these past years, and especially on suggestions from the members of the Central Election Commission, who are in charge of implementing this law, make the law with far more precise, subtle solutions, solutions that will provide for all possible situations and give answers to all these questions. Like that. It's not the same if any appointments were, or if it's a state of absence, or if... the appointment happened in the meantime, since someone was elected somewhere, I don't know, on some duty, and then appointed someone as a director, or, I don't know, a boss, a manager, a board member, etc. Or it's a founding state. So it can't be brought into the same plane, and this law currently does not separate and that's a very, very important difference. If someone was found in the post of an executive, the director of some... organization, institutions, etc. And I don't know. His son is elected representative. Look, the big question is, what, even though the conflict is, but the contrary, it can undoubtedly be suspected that there was a real conflict that occurred that, I don't know, based on whether, in fact, these relationships, were classical nepotism when, I don't know, someone already appointed 41... named someone of their own or helped to appoint his someone on some duty etc. Not to say that we now have one situation which the law only partially defines, said, that it does not comply with the law, and yet the law did not prescribe how and how to deal with it, resolve it, etc. Therefore, here I also propose, like Mr Kalabić, that we conclude that within a short period of time, the Council of Ministers is tasked, of course, including the people of the Central Election Commission, to form a working group of experts, interresorship and to approach the creation of new root or detailed amendments to this Law on conflict of interest or to develop a completely new bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18444	I thank the honourable representative. I'm just reminding you to deliver your conclusions in writing. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18445	Mr. Chairman, I have similar thoughts as my colleague Jukić. I don't think these changes... the law has achieved what we expected will be achieved. The best example is that this law is done according to various standards and criteria, probably, which are not even suited to our terms, is also saying what we will have at the next session of Parliament and what should be today. I want, here, right now, to know my clear position, that precisely because of such a conflict of interest law, the Central Election Commission has highly politicized one issue and led it to absurdity. What was new for the Central Election Commission now that she made the decision she made, compared to what they didn't have when we chose those people a month ago and two months ago, when we chose them. It's just saying that this law provides the possibility of political manipulation, creates space for it and needs to be changed more fully. We have had, some of whom we had the opportunity last week and this week, to visit some EU countries and those which, I hope,... are close to the EU, so we have seen that their legislation on these issues is quite different. And therefore, in order not to go into the details of some of the provisions of this law now, my proposal is that, and I will vote for this law if this is a transitional solution, only provided that Parliament accepts the conclusion that a new Law on conflict of interest, which will be based on the positive experiences of EU countries, will be immediately approached, so, if you want me to be more specific, here I say, these 10 EU countries that have been adopted in the past. Here, so, in some ways, my support for this kind of thing, I condition one approach to go into the making of a new law right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18446	I thank the esteemed representative Dokić. 42 The following has been registered for discussion by the honourable representative Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18447	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18448	All right, just move a little faster. Representative Križanović: business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18449	I appreciate, of course, the debates that are going on... but I think we've come one step back. Today we have a second-stage debate, we're looking at amendments, I think we've returned the debate to the beginning of the principles and the basics of the law. If that's the case, then we'll get involved in the debate, but I'd like to if we can agree to stick to work, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18450	I must say that the debate on the law is in the second reading, which I have made very clear and precise, and so far the discussions have all been debates about the law, and your judgment is whether you want to discuss something that you have not submitted amendments to. I must say, it is your right to debate and not to debate unless you have submitted amendments to the bill. Dear Representative Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18451	I thank you, Mr. President, and I join the congratulations, and Mr. Živković for his work so far, and I wish you successful work, as well as representatives and everyone else, along with us. I answered, very briefly, to say the following. I congratulate the Interresor Working Group, they were doing a serious job. It's a good thing we accepted, at least, these two amendments. And I answered to say: this law, when passed, had a fundamental purpose for BiH as a country in transition to be in line with these democratic standards and legislation in the conduct of public functions, puts it in charge from MPs to ministers and, in my view, at that stage, it gave a positive result. And in this second phase, which will follow after this, it will still be one shift forward. However, in order not to discuss whether or not we're discussing principles now, I'm just going to say that we all need to be aware that this law has many limitations, serious limitations, and let's not talk about them now. I'll just give you an example. Dokić opened the question, some of us had the opportunity to be on a study trip to Germany these days, which is considered – not our opinion – objectively by a country with one extraordinary democratic practice and standards and in which it is perfectly logical that the prime minister of one of the 16 provinces is also a representative in..., not for him to accumulate functions, but for responsibleness in verticals to conduct politics, gentlemen. Or in one province in 43 Magdeburg where the state secretary of the province, which co-ordinates the work of the entire government, is at the same time the minister of European affairs and co-ordinator of all provinces towards Brussels and Berlin. So, with us here, it's impossible that I'm not talking about state agents, doing any executive function or anything else. I think these are restrictions that need to be seen in one reasonable time cycle and with arguments to see which of these things can improve the efficiency of the system in BiH as well. I think that we are a complex organization and that this law must and that this law contributes to it, and I don't think that these restrictions on this one could even be seen in quality, but the time ahead: the next elections, I think, should not be welcomed without one new, whole new text of the law. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18452	I thank you, too. I don't have any further reports. Dear Representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18453	Dear colleagues and colleagues, all of you who have discussed – I must, as chairman of the Interresor Working Groups, say this – have actually pointed to all the main issues in this issue. I'm not contesting anything. So that's how it is. This law is, I said, two steps forward in relation to the existing state, compared to all these mahannas that you pointed out. If we adopt it, we'll have a better situation for here two steps, if it can be followed by steps, but it won't be what we need in BiH, because it's not all we talked about today is this law. The problem related to this current situation around the Council of Ministers, the Election Commission, is not the subject of this Law on conflict of interest, but needs to be changed in the Council of Ministers Act. So this is one complex substance that affects multiple laws, and we wrote it. If you have carefully read our reports and suggestions and suggestions, we have written it in the Interresor Working Group. So I invite you, so today to adopt this, because this is better than before, and last time the law was in the first reading, information from our Interresor Working Group was passed and it was said that it should continue to work on the new law. I, to be honest with you, think that task should be given to the state government, the Council of Ministers. Let the Council of Ministers and the Department of Justice do that and, if you want to leave that group to coordinate, that's another thing. But this must be done by the Council of Ministers and must be done by the Election Commission. If that's the conclusion, I'm ready for you to take it from this Interresor Working Group, or we can all take it and give it to the state government, because it takes us eight months at least, whoever's working on this, at least eight months, to have it in the parliamentary procedure. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18454	Thank you. The following has been reported by the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18455	Thank you. In fact, we in the Interresor Working Group have worked in one specific situation, where we have considered this law with the help of the international community and, frankly, we have had a limited access to this law. We wanted to go to major and better changes, but we did not find understanding from the international community about the law. That's why there were only these minimal changes, but in the meantime, things have happened that are now asking a big question mark. Why did this happen in the meantime that the items that stood on the Central Election Commission and now stand. Over 50 objects have been processed this way and now. With this new law, a man who is now being prosecuted with this would not be in conflict of interest. The man who saw his father-in-law three times in his life, once he got married, the second time he... took the third time when he begged him not to be a board member anymore. Why did this happen before these amendments to the new law came, and why was man prosecuted? It is not a problem in Parliament or in this law. The problem seems to be in the archives of the Central Election Commission that needs to say what other items are awaiting and what law is awaiting. And then it's much better, given that we haven't solved these procedural concerns by this law, that we make this law right, and we ask the international community to help us actually make it the way it could be, and that's enforceable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18456	Thank you. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18457	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I also spoke in my first reading of this law that he is denying basic human rights, to encourage corruption because he imposes a ban more than logically. The example is that we will discuss the replacement of the foreign minister, because he is in conflict of interest because he was a member of a supervisory board and has no influence on whether the administration that has the interest to relieve him, not to be a member of the supervisory board, will deliberately sign a contract and get rid of him from the supervisory board and, on the other hand, we have a deficit of 30 million daily marks and a foreign minister who has all our diplomacy, in fact, there is no consequence, there is no conflict of interest. 45 I think when we do something we should do it in quality, not in part. For this reason, by the name of the People's Party, I will not support this law and I think it is necessary to make a new law that will essentially prevent conflict of interest and will not prevent any illogical things. Also, elected officials... under this law should be punished for something they may influence. Niko of us can affect our relatives whether they're going to do something or not. We'll be punished because someone's been working on what we can't influence. And that part of the sanctions should be passed on to someone else. If institutions, if an official and his relatives are not allowed to work with state institutions, then the elected official cannot have responsibility, but therefore responsibility should be given to the institution. Let the institution be prohibited from working with that entity where the official may have a certain function, because we should now have investigative and protective agencies to investigate whether someone from our relatives or someone where we are eventually appointed is investigating whether he has concluded a contract or not. I think it's illogical and our institutions have these mechanisms and, in fact, I can handle them and they should be punished in that direction, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18458	I thank the honourable representative. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the third item of the agenda: Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices (Second Reading) And we adopted this bill in our first reading at the 26th session of the House. The competent committee report was sent to you on 12 May. The committee has adopted eight amendments and they are an integral part of the bill. Representative Momčilo Novaković delivered an amendment challenging the amendment to the Committee. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. The word has a esteemed representative of Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18460	Dear colleagues and colleagues, in a discussion on the agenda, there has been a statement that some points today are the most important points, some of which are still more important, I again think that this law and this agenda point are the most important part of today's agenda for BiH citizens. 46 Why? There are estimates that about 20% of untested, unanalysed and incorrect drugs circulate on the BiH market, on the drug market. There is also an estimate that about 22 million KM annually circulates on the black market medicines, and not the medicines we buy in cartons of cardboard on the markets, but medicines bought in pharmacies but not registered, not tested and not tested. The particular problem in all this is that there is no adequate inspection and supervision and as a consequence, the result of our complex constitutional organisation that de facto there are not enough inspectors or are not competent or have no time and there are no inspectors who control and who can impose sanctions, not only for the marketing of unregistered, incorrect medicines but even for advertising and advertising of broken medicines. With all that in mind, I, therefore, understand where our attention has been turned and the announcement of today's session is about the agenda on which some laws are on, there is no mention of the Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products, and in the announcement of the media there is no mention of the Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products. Some laws that are so spectacular are mentioned, while at the same time people in both the commission and the ministry have worked hard for months to draft a law that is necessary. People who submitted the amendments also discussed the Constitutional Commission for hours and hours, with the help of the OHR representatives and the US Embassy, trying to pass the law, to make the law as best and, of course, to improve it. And I must say that this painful effort, as usual, has remained out of the media's attention, but fortunately, we have received in the parliamentary procedure a law that is appropriate in a good part of European practice and European standards in this area. We really, by this law, if we adopt it, what I believe and hope, we get the Medicines Agency, we get the Agency's committees, we get the Agency's control laboratories, we get the Expert Council, and we get everything that is European practice or best manufacturing practice or good manufacturing practice or good drug control practice provided for in this extremely important sector. Of course, if we were a centralised state and we were more easily organised, the law might have simpler solutions, happier solutions and potentially less risks. However, our constitutional structure is like this, we are so organized and living in this organization. It is a reality that we must respect in this law and in all laws. And I must say that under the current circumstances and the existing situation, even after certain improvements in the Constitutional Commission, with amendments, we have been given a law that deserves support. Of course, risks in individual solutions will be avoided in a way and if people who are in the Expert Council, and who are overly professionally placed, will behave accordingly, because there is a great responsibility on the Professional Council and on members of the Professional Council: which are possible solutions that are discriminatory somewhere or open up the possibility for someone who may be a different and unhappy solution, the Expert Council will be able to prevent them in any case. I particularly point out that the law establishes, I would say, a rounded system of pharmaceutical-inspective supervision for all members who are under the law, the whole law, and also a sublegal act that will follow the law, with the penalties provided for, 47 provided for, the amount of sanctions and the intended manner and competences in respect of controls. Given all this, I think that thanks to both the Ministry and the Minister, and the Constitutional Commission, and all those who have supported... the making of this law, we have done one great job. A lot of effort has been made, and I think BiH will profit for all its citizens by adopting this law today, if it happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18461	Thank you. The following has been reported by the esteemed representative Novaković. Before I give him my word, since there's a dilemma in the College about the timing of your amendment's investment, which I mentioned, I'm only asking you to say in the debate an hour when you've tabled an amendment that we can determine whether it was invested in time. Nothing more. Here you go. Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18462	So here, you see, that there wouldn't be some dilemma about it, and even if I did, here's to not having a big debate, I'm going to withdraw this amendment that I've invested, given that he's invested in a deadline that means less than 24 hours and the main reason is that I'm usually getting a report in that period, so the Commission report, so I'm late for those reasons. But I repeat, given that there's a mood to pass one of these laws, I don't want to complicate the situation, and I'm going to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18463	I thank you for the constructiveity of the esteemed representative. I don't have any more logs. Honorable representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, then distinguished representative Kalabić, then Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18464	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, especially Resolute Minister Noviću, guests, here, allow me, in the name of the Members' Club of the Party for BiH, to express our satisfaction that at the final stage of the procedure regarding the adoption of the Law on Medicinal Products, one of the particularly important laws for which we were interested, I must mention, and in previous times when there were attempts to pass one law that would regulate this matter. In this iteration, to mention, with special consideration and contribution from the members of the Party's Party for BiH Members towards promotional already some solutions, I hope that all those involved in achieving consensus were aware of the well-meaning of the engagements of individual members of the party, above all of those whose profession it was. Our intention was to bring the need to regulate this matter into one framework of common standards, of course adapted to our circumstances, our specialities, of course, and all that we can't get at the very beginning an ideal law that would fit all those who deal with this matter. But – unlike the position of Mr Genjac and others who may be a little bit more from the profession position, who are a little bit more provoking drugs, talk about 48 of this aspect – I want to particularly absorb the importance of the position of regulation of the market for medicines, not only in BiH but in export and import flows, our benefits for domestic producers in terms of exit to other markets, as well as the protection and benefits of domestic consumption of all that is the subject of this procedure, when it comes to foreign producers on the domestic market. I would also like to express in particular the satisfaction that, although not entirely but in a good way, this law has reflected not only good practices but also European standards and WTO rules on the status of different producers, whether domestic or foreign, on the same market. And here, once again, finally, to say that, of course, the Party for BiH Club will be pleased to support the provisions of this law, to express the hope that both the rest and the ministries and other institutions within BiH will join as soon as possible before the good implementation of this law so that we may in some way compensate for that loss at a pace in the dynamics of approaching common standards when this matter is concerned. I am deeply hoping, equally, that all together in the next period, especially when the implementation of this law is done, we may also access possibly even more changes to this law if it would eventually prove that some solutions that would prove to be inadequate in their practice to be an integral part of future amendments. In that sense, I must mention another... express satisfaction with another act although it should be a normal practice and in the work of the Council of Ministers, that in a whole of a budget of different visions of individual solutions, amendments, etc. Amendment synthesises, the resolution minister, and before the official one, let's say, the final part of the procedure, managed to call all initiators and bring in, let me say, this law in shape to enable both the passage and the competent commission phase and also today in Parliament. Of course, thank you and all those who have been involved on a professional basis in making individual solutions and all those who have contributed to finally, here, finally get one law that regulates the BiH drug market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18465	Thank you. Dear Representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18466	Ladies and gentlemen, one part of what Mr. Genjac said was that an atmosphere was created today that almost and almost does not notice the adoption of such an important law – but well, let it serve to honor those who create such an atmosphere – I also want to express my satisfaction that today we are in a situation to adopt this law and the fact that people from the SNSD, when they are doing such a serious job, do it well and do it to the satisfaction of all. It is our pleasure that Minister Nović spent, I think, with members of the Constitutional Legal Commission more time than the entire Council of Ministers has spent on other things and that, in the end, he came to a law that satisfied everyone, in which he participated both the profession and all those who had the opportunity to speak his mind. This is an important issue not only for the state, for institutions, this is also an important issue for 49 ordinary people. It concerns his relationship with this matter. The important thing is that she's regulated.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18467	I apologize to Reverend Kalabić for interrupting him for a moment. Here today are visiting BiH and the Parliamentary Assembly of our distinguished counterparts from the Defence and Security Commission of Montenegro. I welcome them on behalf of the House of Representatives and in my personal name. [[APLAuz]] I want them to feel comfortable. We are currently under discussion on a very important agenda point. Well, here's how much time you're allowed, please, stay here with us. My apologies to your esteemed colleague, please continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18469	Here, it is my pleasure for our guests to attend the best part of today's session and to do just this one important thing, when at the end of this legislative project of its positive outcome, that we can boast that we have done a good thing for BiH today. An example of business relations, according to responsibility, according to the work of Minister Nović, if we followed others and did not make obstructions, which is their goal, I think we would all be better off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18470	I thank the honourable representative. The following has been registered for the debate by the distinguished representative Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18471	First of all... I wish you, the chairman, the name of the SDA Club, good health and success in running the House. It won't be easy for you, especially for the first half of our mandates, because it's obviously going to be... a pre-election campaign of some parties here, which will keep us minded like this and make it impossible... concrete work. And this law is this particular piece of work. And that's exactly what... this home needs to do for the people, which is why the people chose us. The law has already been in procedures of various kinds, I mean, about four years. And at last today, order will be introduced into this area and will prevent... the poisoning of people with drugs that... have strove on the Bosnian-Herzegovina market. Very extensive consultations have been carried out with various stakeholders. The U.S.A. put forth a lot of effort here, and especially by the U.S.A., it's where Dr. Genjac put his best effort. I thank him today for that, and I thank all those who have made an effort to make a good law. 50 The Law is not perfect, but the situation in BiH is not perfect either. We're a complicated country, there's a lot of complex interests. Given these circumstances, this is one very, very good law. So... we'll uphold the law. I want more of these actions and laws in the future. Cheers.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18472	I thank the honourable representative. The following has been reported by a respected representative, Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18473	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I, of course, join the congratulations of Mr. Niki Lozančić and the wishes for the successful leadership of this house and the gratitude of Mr. Živković for his previous leadership of the House. I would like to express my personal satisfaction that we have this law today on parliamentary benches and I really think that it is absolutely, by my own court, one of the most important legal materials that we are going to adopt today. As important as the segment of production and transport of drugs is, I think we've heard about it from the esteemed Mr. Genjac and the previous debaters. What I would like to say is, it is to express my gratitude to all those with whom I have worked personally, both on behalf of the club and on my own behalf, in an attempt to repair this law, and I do not think that it is really to thank public minister Nović for his enormous effort and effort and for his Department of Health that he has invested to find a common language and adopt these eight amendments, as well as the expert team of OHR. What I would like to say is that this law regulates the production of medicines in BiH, medical means and regulates the marketing of medicines, which I would like to give one piece of information, which is that, according to the data that I have available, imports 200 million KM medicines into BiH in one year. If we take into account the fact that we are importing 200 million KM drugs, although this law gives us the ability to control the quality of the drugs we import, which have such a respectable economic basis, then, without a doubt, we can today be satisfied with the fact that the citizens of BiH will also have good control of these 200 million KM medicines that we import. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18474	I thank the honourable representative. The following has been reported by MP Ajanović for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18475	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of Montenegro, I welcome you once again, no matter what I did with the applause, and since my club president has already congratulated one and the other, I don't feel the need to do it again. I just called to say a few words. All about the law, I said it in my first reading, and I wouldn't repeat it. Certainly... I've invested 14 amendments, eight of which, I think, have been adopted. There's still something... done. So, with the hard work of the ministry, the hard work and the help of the OHR people, and certainly MPs, we've come to a solution that, in my court, I can't say, I can't agree that it's ideal, because there are certain things that aren't... best solved, but it's better to adopt the law that we have, than wait two or three years for us to get the ideal law. Because after the law, we can change. But I just answered for... other words. I personally think, when the law is in the second reading, and when we talk in general about the law, and we don't have amendments, it's academic discussions that don't bring anything. In fact, it should be effective, in the second reading, only those who have submitted the amendments, that they take them out and go to the vote, because this second as a second, nothing can change in the law, because already the amendments... have passed, have not been renewed. I deliberately did not want to renew the three amendments so that there would not be much debate over a law that is very significant, without it being finally adopted. Well, and the way it is, I'm not completely satisfied, but it's certainly one very, very important segment and one good decision. I think it would be good and just to not have a big academic discussion in the second reading, but only people who have renewed these amendments need to say a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18476	I completely agree with your proposal. Here, our guests from Montenegro go further into their activities. I want a comfortable stay in BiH and every good one. We keep working. No more reports. I am concluding the debate and, with the conclusion of the debate, I would like to join the congratulations of the distinguished Minister Nović. I would like all members of the Council of Ministers to have so many congratulations on their proposals from the MPs and to agree on the views that the proposals are good. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Number Act (Second Reading) And this bill was adopted in the first reading of the 26th session. On 5 May, the committee responsible submitted the Law Proposal Report. The commission accepted the bill's proposal in the proposed text, as suggested by the House. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the fifth item of the agenda: Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the identity of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18481	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is only, therefore, the order does not remain that we have dealt with the amendment of such an important law without being told a word,... and indeed there is hardly any need to say anything, because the Constitutional Commission, after a public debate, held a session and in a very constructive atmosphere, respecting everything that could be respected, with full consensus, therefore by consensus, adopted these amendments, which, since the law itself belongs to the matter of high-level criminal law, adopted these amendments. And I suggest that I don't go into further labor, the adoption of this law, of course, with amendments. That's it. Thank you very much. NO ONE
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18482	"Thank you. The word has been respected by the first deputy president, Mr Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18483	Here, Mr. Džaferović, I apologize, I've already signed up before your appeal not to answer. So, I have no intention of, of course, opening up some special debate, but I would also like to point out that this is a good example, so where the Constitutional Commission really had very close coordination with OHR, the Court of BiH, the OSCE, held a public debate, etc. And I believe that this legal project has solved a series of problems relating to two-stage, which concern emergency legal medicines, etc. but it is my opinion that we will probably come into a situation to reopen the debate, i.e. to open a debate on the BiH Supreme Court's institution, because it will in some way only solve the complete two-stageness and these appeals needs, etc. Thank you. Of course, we will uphold this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18484	No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on the Fiscal Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) At the 26th session, we adopted this bill in our first reading. The report of the responsible Finance and Budget Committee was forwarded to you on 9 May 2008. And this bill has been adopted in the proposed text. In the plenary phase, MP Momčilo Novaković defends seven amendments. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. The word has a respected representative, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18486	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I must say that this law, it seems to me, falls within the line of those laws that have a strong need to regulate certain shortcomings in the system, abuses the adoption of acts that, not only very difficult to fit into our legal system, but indeed causes many, many dilemmas, many doubts and, I must say, leaves a lot of room for this law and certain provisions of this law to be seriously manipulated. What are the basic remarks I've made through these amendments or else... and given? First of all, I think it is necessary to fully define what the role of the Fiscal Council is. Often there was... a problem in the work of the Management Board of indirect taxation when it came to the division of funds from the Joint Account. And most often it is said: we will solve the issue by forming the Fiscal Council. And then we used that goal or that reason for defining and many other... issues which, unfortunately, are not within the scope of this parliament or BiH institutions, but in the domains of entities. So I suggested, in fact,.... that Article 2 reads: This law establishes the Fiscal Council of BiH. So, without this: with the task of coordinating fiscal policy in BiH in order to ensure macroeconomic stability, etc. and fiscal sustainability, and neither do I. Why? Because this formulated task of the Fiscal Council allows it to enter deep into competences that do not belong to BiH institutions. The second amendment concerns Article 3 which speaks of the composition of the Fiscal Council. And otherwise, this law doesn't say anywhere what kind of role these people appear in the Fiscal Council are in function here. So they're here by function. Do they receive or do they not receive... compensation for their work in this fiscal council? So do they receive additional compensation for what they are already doing on these functions here, which are prime ministers and finance ministers and vaults? And whose, in fact, basic task... are the issues that are being settled in the Fiscal Council. That is why I have proposed adding a new position which would clearly define that members of the Fiscal Council do not receive special compensation for their work. A team sooner, we'll see, this proposal connects to another later... amendment. Also, in Article 5 of this law, which defines... what jurisdiction and responsibilities mean. I must say that certain questions, therefore certain questions can be interpreted, as I said in Article 2, in a way that there is, and certainly is, a transfer of competence. It is particularly controversial, so it is a particularly controversial position under h) the adoption of the fiscal council budget. You see, this is one of the institutions -- I don't know how many there are, 55 I don't think there are many in the legal system in BiH -- that adopts its own budget. So she herself shows the needs, she cuts herself to the budgets from which they finance and therefore adopt their own budget. We will later see that they adopt a budget that is not subject to any controls or audits. In fact, the budget adopted by the Fiscal Council: its audit is not done and formally very difficult and can be done because it is neither in the authority of the auditor general nor, of course, in the powers of the entity auditors. And completely, so completely out of control is lost, lost,...I must say, at this point, an unknown amount of funds but in any case, when you look at the composition of this council, I am convinced that it will be a solid, solid amount of budget funds. Article 9, also my amendment IV, states that, therefore, in the position (1), responsibility for the preparation and proposal for a decision and other legal acts adopted by the Fiscal Council is given to the advisory group. I believe that the Fiscal Council, if it already works this way, must have responsibility and that this group, the section, as it is called here, so the advisory group, can only prepare material but that responsibility for this material must be borne by the Fiscal Council. Because what's the role of the Fiscal Council then if he can take responsibility at any moment to some dark advisory group and say, here, we've made the wrong decision because the advisory group irresponsibly gave us the wrong inputs. amandman v to Article 10 which speaks of... introducing a new position: that the systematization of jobs and work tasks, and the number of executives will be regulated by the regulation that brings the Council of Ministers to the proposal of the Fiscal Council. In fact, we don't have a defined composition here at all, the number of employees, the structure of workers, etc. in this Department of Fiscal Council. I believe that it is necessary to define fully clearly in this law, so that it is perfectly clear that here and the number of perpetrators as, of course, in order to plan the budget at all, fully, fully clear... define... And what I have said several times, I define by Amendment VII, is... that the fiscal council budget must be subject to someone's audit. Someone has to have the ability to control that budget. I believe this should be the general auditor, the main auditor of the BiH institution. And for that reason, I have provided for Amendment VI to fund the work of the Fiscal Council to be provided in the Budget by the BiH institutions, not three or more budgets at BiH level. This way, and with these amendments, I think this institution will be able to fit into BiH's legal system. Otherwise, we create an institution that no one can control. Given those who will sit there, that is, their functions, not names, we are creating an extremely strong institution that I am not sure is responsible enough for budgets to carry out... their part of the job. If, of course, there's understanding, and I'm not sure there's any for these... amendments, given the position... on the commission, we're willing to talk about every amendment and more than I've already explained. If not, we cannot support this law and will continue to work and, after the adoption of the law, we will look for different ways to challenge the possibility in this way of forming a Fiscal Council. Thank you. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18487	Thank you. The word has a respected representative of Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18488	I will... briefly say, in front of the Finance and Budget Committee, that we have adopted the Proposal for a Law on the Fiscal Council and we propose that this House adopt it. I'm glad this law is finally on the agenda, because it's about one key reform law. It is not ideal, but at this point it was not possible to bring better but, as it is, believe me, it will contribute to controlling public spending at all levels of BiH. We know that we now have 199 budgets, we have no control at all, it's wasted, it's done as anyone wills, and by the Constitution, entities are for fiscal policy-making. However, this is about co-ordinating that should be binding on the executive authorities at all levels of BiH. So, the coordination that needs to be committed by the executive authorities. We also know that the jurisdiction of the fiscal registers, someone says it's entity jurisdiction, someone says management, and that the state is losing, is estimated to be 200 million marks because we don't have those fiscal registers. In my opinion, this law is good, it needs to be adopted and BiH fulfils its obligations to the European Union,... one of the key laws. So I propose to Parliament to accept the Commission's proposal. The Commission has not accepted the amendments. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18489	Thank you. The next is Commissioner Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18490	Thank you. First, at the beginning to mention again the satisfaction that we are... before the adoption of one of – I will mention, perhaps most important – economic laws in BiH whose importance is seen, firstly, by the fact that, let's say, macroeconomic stability implies and stability in the fiscal sector. We are often warned of the need for a coordinated approach when it comes to the budget of... government, medium-term budgetary programming, financial programming. Let me remind you that this law, of course, is also in the context and issues relating to the removal of existing or remaining barriers to establishing a single economic space in BiH. That it also concerns a final solution or a path towards solving the problems related to the allocation of funds from the Single Account, and in particular to highlight the issue of our path towards the necessary alignment in the context of European standards, especially when it comes to fiscal coordination and the size of one of the key macroeconomic indicators, which is the size of public debt and GDP. I want to particularly absorb the issue of public spending in BiH and hope that this will be a necessary institutional framework to ensure adequate rationalisation of public 57 consumption, i.e. the necessary restructuring of total consumption in favour of other forms of consumption. And I also hope that the institutions, i.e. the Fiscal Council, etc. to work precisely to prevent an enormous increase in budget... public spending and the creation of budgetary frameworks, to the extent that this corresponds to other macroeconomic indicators. I appreciate this law, unlike the discussion of counterpart Novaković, which is necessary to establish it, although, of course, it does not provide ideal solutions and, let me also mention that, in this context, there are reserves, of course, which may show even more the implementation of the law itself which, hopefully, will lead to the need for changes in terms of improving the solutions itself that are provided for by this law. Here, first of all, it's unclear, let's say, the question of roles. I'm sorry. Chairman, let's wait for the SDA. If you could just cut the tone, I'm sorry, bakire, here's a really quiet one.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18491	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18492	Here, I said... if I can keep going. The question, the vague question of the role of Budget Brcko District in the overall structure of the budget, is that in this way the Budget of the District is outside the framework of the other budgets, or beyond the framework of discussions of the Fiscal Council, while, for example, the District appears in the form of observers. Or, for example, a question relating to decisions on temporary financing in accordance with the applicable laws until the time when the agreement is signed. I will only remind you that the Constitution of BiH does not foresee temporary financing, but is said of the budget of the previous year on a provisional basis. Therefore, the necessary harmonisations will be necessary and time will show that this law, in some provisions, will need to be improved, or adapted to the circumstances in BiH, and, of course, it will be necessary to identify more clearly the need of the Fiscal Council Secretariat because it is not clear who is in charge of this secretariat or how independent it is. But here, along with all these reserves, which we appreciate, are more than possible improvements in legal solutions after the start of implementation of this law, to express our full support for the adoption of this law and the need and hope that we will all soon be able to see the far-reaching importance this law has for the overall economic situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18493	Thank you. Replica: Honorable representative Novaković. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18494	That, to be clear, I did not say that BiH does not need a Fiscal Council. I said the legal solutions here are bad. So BiH needs a Fiscal Council, but not formed in this way. You see, colleague Bahtiću, article 6.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18495	Dear colleagues, please follow the presentation of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18496	Article 6, you also need colleagues...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18497	Dear Representative Džaferović, please... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18498	Well, of course, I do, but it means that you'll agree to those views, so this doesn't matter, but it matters to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18499	Please don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18500	It's important to me. So, Article 6 of this law defines that the proposal for a document is a global framework for fiscal balance and policy in BiH, so it is passed, I don't know, either, in the form of an agreement, so that it should be passed on the Fiscal Council. And look now, please. And, unless it is adopted, or an agreement is reached, but it is not signed by those or not agreed by those in need, then the Fiscal Council shall provide technical information on official duty. So, we worked there, we didn't agree, we'll deliver technical information to parliaments, they'll re-adopt the decisions on temporary financing. So instead of budgets, and then, if we don't agree then, they'll adopt budgets the way they do today. I ask you, what is the responsibility of the Fiscal Council in this law? Is this that fiscal advice that we wanted and what is the responsibility to the budgets spent when we don't get an agreement after a lot of debates? So it's not a questionable need for a fiscal council, it's disputed how he's legally designed to function here. I'm saying it's designed to work so it doesn't work. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18501	Thank you. The following is the registered esteemed representative of Lagumdžija. I've got the application on file.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18502	I didn't wave my hand or anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18503	No, no, this is electronic, so. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to... the ninth item of the agenda: ad. Nine. Proposal for a bill on salaries and fees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) The draft law on salaries and fees in BiH institutions was adopted in the first reading at the 26th session of this house. The commission is, as you know, the Finance and Budget Committee. After a long phase of consideration,...the committee responsible delivered the bill on 9 May. The same day, the report was sent to you. The commission, as you have seen, adopted 20 amendments that have become an integral part of the bill. In the plenary phase, we received amendments as follows, I quote them in the order of arrival: SDA's Club of Representatives 12 amendments that defend again; MP Jerko Ivanković Lijanović defends three amendments; MP Salko Sokolović defends one amendment; MP Momčilo Novaković submitted one amendment that defends at the plenary stage; MP Momčilo Novaković submitted two amendments to which he refutes parts of amandman iv.e. and VIII. Commissions; Representative Branko Dokić tabled one amendment by calling on Article 118(3), so according to new aspects; the SNSD Club submitted amendments to which it contests all amendments; MP Velimir Jukić submitted one amendment by calling on Article 118(3) of the Rules of Procedure and by representative Adem Huskić submitted four amendments to the amandman II.. Disputes the Amendment of the Xth Commission, and the rest defends it again. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. So we're also discussing the amendments. Dear Representative Bahtić, I presume as chairman of the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18505	Thank you. 60 You don't need, colleague Lagumdžija, to announce me, it's my duty as an MP... your obligations, not yours. As you know, Parliament has twice concluded... that the Council of Ministers is making a proposal for a bill on salaries and fees in BiH institutions. Council of Ministers, i.e. The finance ministry did the bill and referred it to parliamentary procedure. The Finance and Budget Commission, as the committee responsible, held on March 22nd, discussed the proposal for a law in the first phase and unanimously accepted it and referred it to a further procedure. So she unanimously accepted the principles in the first phase, which means we need the law. The House of Representatives at the 26th session... considered and adopted the Bill of Salaries in the first reading. The Finance and Budget Commission, in its second phase of the 24th session, held on 8.5, accepted the text of the draft law on salaries and fees in BiH institutions, with 22 amendments adopted, was tabled 77 and proposed to Parliament for consideration and adoption. The draft bill on salaries has been made... The Council of Ministers. The commission was working, believe we worked a lot on it, we had a lot of meetings, we had a lot of talks with unions all over the place. Some things the Commission has managed to fix when it comes to civil servants, all employees, border police, the Directorate of Direct Taxation. Some things didn't work out. It's up to us here to see... what to do with these amendments and how to do. I'd just like to say a few more... words that make me say that this law should. We need law, and as it will be, we don't know yet because, believe me, I will always support any amendments and addition to the law, any new law that will improve financial discipline, strengthen control over budget spending, introduce order and system because there is still a lot of waste and uncontrollable spending in BiH institutions due to the absence of, precisely, the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions. The public is rightly very interested in how public funds are spent. It is precisely the Law of Salutations that allows public and transparent to see exactly how many people have received and no one needs to hide anything. I said now that we have no law, no rule of law, in certain institutions, unfortunately, the rights of anarchy and powerlessness. Individuals have enormously high incomes, you don't know about them, you can't see that, and their effect is zero. And I'm going to list a few more audit reports where the negative effects are best seen that there's no pay law. In the case of individual institutions, there is no rules on salaries and systematicisation. Unlawful payments for commission work during working hours, so it's... 14.5 million marks last year. Unlawful stimulation, payments without clear criteria, excessive phone costs, illegal availability of representation costs, excessive costs of using official cars for no legitimate reasons and all that. So it's up to us here to see these amendments, how do we, what do we do? As far as I'm concerned, it needs law, how, that's what we're gonna decide. That's it, thank you. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18506	I thank the honourable representative, the chairman of the Finance and Budget Committee. In this order, I have applications: the esteemed representative Izetbegović, the esteemed representative Malić, and the esteemed representative Dolić, and then the esteemed representative Jovičić and Hadžiahmetović. Here you go. Dear Representative Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18507	So the SDA has repeated its amendments. The main thing of these amendments is that MPs are not getting paid, that ministers and their followers are getting paid, whether officials are increasing their salaries to some extent, that in the Presidency they are increasing their wages to some extent, and that the salaries of soldiers, police officers, officials are being raised. And I suggest you really... support these amendments. I think they're one measure, given the state we're living in right now, right? Our salaries are over 3,000 marks, and this can be a worthy life. The salaries of clerks, soldiers, police officers are mostly below 1,000 marks. These people are on the verge of misery. As they buy food, clothing, children's books, shoes, etc., you can't do that with receipts below 1,000 marks. Therefore, I call upon you to... have a measure and to support these amendments and to get out of this situation like this. So, the SDA has had this attitude on wages not only in this case but ever since. Before, I mean, six, seven years ago, when wages were first increased, the U.S.A. was against it, and then two people sitting there with us... acted in principle and when salaries were up and they didn't receive that salary. It's Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Genjac. So... in this case, we've made one quality analysis. We have seen how it is regulated in the environment, in Slovenia, Croatia, Austria and presented that analysis when... considering the law in the first reading. I noticed on that occasion that Mr. Lagumdžija, Professor Lagumdžija, did, write down what I read, and then brought that information out to the press, a few of them... as it suits him, added something, cut something, increased something, and then we could read it,...so changed, means faked in the press the next day. And I'm surprised by the behavior of one professor, one party leader, one potential statesman to apply in this way. The political pre-election campaign of the SDP followed, and I apologize to some SDP individuals I respect and I know that they do not support such behaviour, where some gold shovels have been assigned to people, as well as to Mr Džaferović and Mr Genjac and nine present SDAs, although you know what a principled relationship we have had with this issue since January, February, but when this law was first mentioned. So we're not going to be in your debt for sure, except we're not going to be used by lies, by political tricks, but we're going to help you... to reduce the influence in the media of your own through which you place such untruths. What do you say... one more time. Now, I urge you to support a realistic SDA proposal. Cheers. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18508	Mrs. Malić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18509	The Honorable Presidency, here, by leaving Mr. Lozančić at this moment in the O.R., has denied me the pleasure of wishing him successful work in the next eight months and here, along the way, to welcome all my colleagues. I have one question that stems from a very extensive report by the Commission on the budget. It is noted that the adoption of 20 amendments, of the 77 amendments made, followed a correction in terms of raising the coefficients that included not only a large number of job nomenclatures but also several thousand employees, especially from a group of civil servants, not giving rise to whether the current situation is good, or whether this will mean correct correction of their personal incomes. I would be interested, and I think the whole of our Parliament, because that information about this comprehensive report of the Commission is missing, that the Ministry of Finance says: What is the order of size, or how long would it take, if the coefficients proposed by the Commission, by adopting the amendments mentioned, were to be increased by the planned 55 million, what has the Finance Minister informed us at the beginning? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18510	I hope that the minister closely monitors the debate and the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission and that in the end – I ask you to be patient, be patient – in the end, he will respond. Now for the word, please, Mr Dolić has now applied for the word. There'll be more questions, sure. Here you go, Mr. Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18511	Thank you very much. Gentlemen, the chairman, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished guests, what to say after all that has been said about this law in the past two months since the procedure. This law, without our proposal and without our will, has passed a kind of public debate in this time, wider than a public debate, I would say, about any previous law. Citizens and the public, there is no doubt about it, have expressed their indignation to what is proposed in this law. My impression, after all, is that citizens and the public still don't know the real dimensions of this problem. Pandora's box of salaries and fees in state institutions is open at the state level but also citizens and the public must know that the same, perhaps even with greater weight, panda boxes exist at the level of entities, at the level of cantons and at the level of municipalities. These levels of government are wisely silent and the blades of the public are aimed only at us who, fortunately or unfortunately, have opened the Pandora's box in which the wages and fees have been held so far. 63 One thing is certain: for the second year of the state institution from the municipality to the top of the state, the effect of increasing budget revenues based on VAT rather than in development and social programmes is abundant, or to be more precise, over 80% focus on public spending and wages. This trend has taken control and is causing chaos and I fear it will ultimately not end well for political and social stability in BiH. In this period, while this home is located on a pillar of shame due to the proposed law, there is a lot of liquefying and politicizing with these proposals. Of course, these moves are a means of fighting, but there must be a limit to morals and good taste in all of that. The SDP colleagues initiated the signing of a petition of citizens against high salaries and privileges of MPs, and I personally have nothing against it, and that is the means of political struggle allowed, but anyone who signed the petition would have to be so forced to publicly show his x-rays and prove his morality in this matter. In the previous days, I have been watching Mayor Bihac, following the cameras and the media, sign this petition in Bihac, and those who applaud him probably do not know that he receives 3,500 marks per month on the basis of the net salary alone, plus 1,500 marks... of a positional supplement. When other fees are added to this, then you can clearly see how morally it is that the mayor, the very mayor of Bihac, signs one decent petition and makes it a promotion. I didn't say this for a reason to paint the moral character of the mayor of Bihac, but to say to what extent we are ready for politics and hypocrisy from which citizens do not benefit too much. No matter what opinion they had on the proposed Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, no matter to what extent they politicised, liquidated and moralised at this time, the problem of wages and fees in BiH institutions has at least two dimensions. One dimension is that it is quite certain that, on this issue in state institutions, from the municipality to the top of the state, there is far greater chaos than we assume. Simply, this area is out of control, and budget funds are being used with a cap and a fist to get paid and paid. All I'm going to say is that by my own research, I've come up with data that in several cases the salaries and fees in state institutions reach between 10 and 15 thousand marks, even more. I'd understand if it were managerial positions where the pay is proportional to the result but unfortunately that's not the case. I claim that in this area, therefore, there is a chaotic state. The second dimension of this problem is the fact that this chaotic situation in the area is paid and compensation in state institutions cannot be solved in the way it is tried by this law. ... In that regard, this law does not impose order or merely seemingly introduce order into this area, it opens a race or a kind of competition at the height and speed of pay raises between different levels of government. This problem can only be regulated by one roof law at the state level, not by this partial and segmented only at the state level. I remain with my findings that it is immoral in this way to open a competition in the consumption of wage budgets, and the economic and social picture of citizens to be as it is. We do not have the moral right to an enormous salary increase with some budget users, with the reason that we are harmonising salaries with what Dodik, Branković did, or some canton, or some municipality, etc. If the goal is to coordinate, then we will often coordinate this, because we have opened an immoral contest. We need to implement the coordination at all levels, from the municipality to the institutions at the top of the state and only then can we talk about 64 law enforcement in this area. This law does not allow it, I would even say that it promotes organised disorder in this area. In the end, I don't have any reserves or any hesitation about not supporting this law, and that's the result of both my principles and my understanding of the problem, not the result of any morality or politicization of this issue. I propose, therefore, that the motionary withdraw this law from the parliamentary procedure and that the resolution of this issue be approached by the proposal of one roof law at the level of the state which would then be a framework for resolving this issue in all state institutions from the municipality to the top of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18512	poslanik Jovičić. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Replica: Mr. Jukić
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18514	Well, I really don't have the usual much... to replicate. It's not the style and manner of my work, but I still have to ask one question and replicate it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18515	Is it a replica or is it a question?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18516	Replica, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18517	Give me a line. Let's respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18518	So, you said that by your modest research you determined that the salaries of some in BiH institutions are 10 to 15 thousand marks. With this law, the way I read it and see it, that wouldn't be possible. So you'd take at least one step to stop it. And you said in the end: I won't support it, there's no doubt either.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18519	poslanik Jovičić. Here you go, Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18520	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18521	May I have your attention, please? Sit down, please. This is Mr. Jovičić speaking. Please, sit down.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18522	Thank you, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18523	Mr. Bahtić, Huskić, please sit down.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18524	I'm not going to start immorally or morally, but when we came here to this Parliament, we swore an oath, and let not those I don't know about, we all signed up to be professional MPs, I say to everyone, except for those I don't know they're not. And this whole media thing, I'd say, first of all, halabuka, crowds, 42 MPs and 15 delegates in the House of Peoples, for a wonderful miracle, no one attacks members of the Presidency, because they are silent. No Niko from the Bureau called to say, "We'll get high or reduced salaries." From the Council of Ministers, even more silence, no one there. It's Parliament's fault. Now, these people sitting here, now there's gonna be some big story about whether it's moral, not moral, what it was, what it was. And I, when discussing this topic in the first reading and for the media, said: "I'm waiting for you, if this law passes, and I hope that it will pass, will these colleagues, who fight as if, well, we've done something wrong and immorally, receive these wages. Here, I don't have any income and I don't live on anything. There's no tycoon or thief behind me to stand up for, to give me some privileges, but here today I suggest we all give up our pay, all of us. Today we sign the decision: there is no salary in Parliament. And then Mr Belkić, Živković and Niko Lozančić and no MP will come to Parliament. I won't see you here. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, they will come because they chair Parliament and will not allow the Parliamentary Assembly to fail. So don't tell big stories about what's moral, what's not moral. We're attacking various agency directors, which is the fact that 10,000 Marks pay, so the question is, we have their reports and we're going through their reports as fast as possible, and then these friends of ours, which I highly appreciate, from NGOs, say: high wages, no effect. How many laws were you planning? So it's not a problem how much we're planning, but it's important in the quality of laws that will work, not in the quantity that we've adopted 120, and none of them work. We've turned everything upside down here, and I was expecting today, when I went to the session, I say to her, look at me, people all on TV, I'm gonna answer, and I'm gonna say I'm gonna have to adopt this law, and I'm gonna advocate that more wages are going up. So when I come, then just attack me 66, because these others will be silent, who will be there again and again at the register: whether there are any travel expenses, logs, travel, abroad, or I don't know what, whether there's any travel costs for fuel and I don't know. Well, I told you, people, they can't move the Falles to Zvornik at all. And Dr. Prodanović says, "What do you keep pushing into Zvornik?" Well, what's best there, because whoever ran from Zvornik went on the list. So it's a secure constituency, for the next election, and I figure it out, I'll move there. And in order for me not to spread this, there is no law for 42 MPs in the House of Representatives and 15 in the House of Peoples, but for 23 thousand people in institutions. Last time I was a friend of yours, I was really looking at all of you like that, and I said, "Have any of these unions ever delivered any memos to you?" Of the 56 institutions received 50 requests. By accident, Bahtić and I made the first move... to help the border police and the SIPA, which is the biggest commitment I wanted most, and I don't feel bad and I need more help, because these are state institutions that have to go after thieves, criminals. And we're going to take from them, so this 0.72% increase, Mr. Minister knows if it's 0.72%, it won't even feel like it, so when we take these billions from them, which someone planned to take, there's money. So it's not a coup against the people here, on the poor, on the misery, but here it's only us sitting here. I beg you, when we pass this law, all of you who will take it, now I will ask for the first time, that you all sign that you will restore this difference. So give it to charity, and give it wherever you want. But don't kidnap there at the entrance and take it, and here's a big story about how it's not moral, how it's an attack on this poor girl, an attack on the state. Will you put this parliament in a position that he is really not a legislative body? Right now, I've been in intensive talks with foreign delegations. And let's say, in Italy, both houses of parliament have an autonomous right to bring themselves all these, and the Council of Ministers has not prepared for them at all, and the government itself, they decide. Here, we determine for everything, no one to us. Are we really going to put this parliament in a position to be the highest legislative body and not to be, publicly speaking again, since these journalists are eager to wait upstairs, Jovičić is pushing for an increase in the salary... of the law. You post everything on the front pages, like you do. I'm not afraid of that. Why? Because in the coming period, we must support one part of Mr Lijanović, to speed up reforms and create a political environment and economical environment for the people to start living. People won't start living if we give up our salary today or if we all say we have 10... thousands of marks. He's not gonna get any better. That's why it's demagogy, in the name of the people, in the name of, I don't know, what stories. And go back to what's the point, of course. If I'm the 2000th in BiH, I give up all receipts. Here, 2000th. So I got a ban from the Municipality of Rogatica, because I can't come there... which I said three years ago, I took 3,500 marks from myself, and none of them work by an economic organization. No Niko's doing anything. And so countless municipalities. So this Mr. Dolić really took this good... – the chief went out there and asked me how many receipts he had, and he signed. And I, by accident, saw him on television, and said, in the name of whom does he sign? _________(?) 67 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18527	Mr. Jovičić, on the pay law thing!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18528	Here I am finishing up, Mr. Belkić, this is constructive. I know you've been making statements, and that's true. It's not like we're gonna raise our salaries, but let's just pass the law and I know you're gonna back it up because of those who are opponents of everything. Let's do it, and then we'll speed up with the reform laws to help the people live better, and then he won't care what they pay me, and how much they pay you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18529	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Jovičić. The following has been reported for the debate by distinguished representative Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18530	Thank you, Chairman. I may violate this idyll in the way that today's discussion of the Law on Salaries, so I will use some quantifications and analyses that I have ahead of me, as well as mention, it seems to me, that today's sharp advocates, at all costs, have found the most arguments in some harsh criticism that are a little bit more, seems to me, without argument, than with... indeed some message that we may find a better solution. Let me begin by reminding all of you that more than a year ago, this Parliament, for a year and a half ago, has adopted, or expressed political will, 68 unanimously, so a year and a half ago to settle... this area of state law, that we found the argument for such a thing very quickly after the expression of that political will in the analysis of audit reports and findings that in certain institutions, the state-owned area of wages and the independence of certain state institutions to regulate the area itself, in a good way, has led to absurdities in relations between state institutions, at least, when it comes to receiving, the total incomes, and the good part and when it comes to wages. I, unfortunately, have to distinguish here receipts and salaries, because today they appear under the terms of pay some amounts mentioned that aren't true, so I'm going to take the opportunity to mention that there is no salary of 7,000, there may be a total income of 7,000. ...but here I'm talking, just that maybe we're using some... quantification, some analysis, but... maybe it's total income, but certainly not pay. But it is good that we have this distinction in our head, for the simple reason why, among other things, I will remind you that after expressing our political will, using the grounds for adoption and the analysis of audit reports, the repeated political will, to which the Council of Ministers has responded, so at the request of this Parliament, we have responded to the Council of Ministers with a proposal for this law in the procedure, and now Parliament's reactions anyway. I also want to remind you that every bill has the right to submit, of course, and different information of certain solutions, so it seems to me that it is missing, especially with those advocates who receive a good salary here in this House. Since I'm a little free from it, I'm giving myself some freedom to talk a little differently. So let me remind you, at first, that the BiH Party supported the adoption of the Payments Act in its first reading. We are aware, indeed, of the need to be at a state level, between state institutions etc. regulate this area for a variety of reasons. Let me remind you that both the good part and the occasion and the occasion, let's say, and the Monitoring Committee of the Council of Europe reports, which among other things registers that we have not yet adopted the Law on pay in terms of pucks, or criticism to state institutions, that we are not talking about different advertising, because someone prefers to love and trust these other foreign, international institutions and financial etc. But, here, almost everyone is talking about high public spending, which, among other things, focuses on the pay sector, since we don't have much investment in the public sector, especially when it comes to the state level and because of jurisdiction, but I want to mention that this very chaotic situation that was caused by the lack of law was an argument to the stranka for BiH to support the adoption of the law and we supported it in the first reading in principles, but then we emphasized something: that we would not support this law in the final version unless it reflects the overall social situation in BiH. Similarly, we have said that we will not respect this law, unless it is adopted, or supported, unless it respects the rank, or hierarchy of institutions in BiH, starts with the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, Parliament, other institutions, so at the state level, just as it is managed by the next argument. We have, in fact, made an effort to obtain one analysis of the salary, the current state and one quantification as proposed by the Council of Ministers. And for those who... haven't had a chance to see this quantification, I, I'll just stop at a few striking, like this, positions. 69 The BiH presidency, the highest body, the Council of Ministers or here is the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers at the Council of Ministers. I will remind you, say, that a member of the presidency has almost half the salary of the President of the Constitutional Court from the President of the Court of BiH, BiH's chief prosecutor. Yes, for example, a member of the Bureau has almost twice as much, or almost twice as much as the main auditor's salary, I don't, I don't subscribe to any other institution with which I'm doing the comparative, but I'm just trying to... get you to interinstitutional comparatively and the specific weight of the individual institutions here... at the state level. Yeah, let's just say, the Bureau member has maybe 70 percent more than the deputy auditor. Yes, for example, there's almost the same as the President of the concessions commission elected by this parliament, which I don't know what he's doing, really, I don't know except for one annual concession commission report, I don't know if the State Competition Commission has awarded any concessions, so let me put it that way. A member of the Presidency of this State has almost the same salary as a member of the Competition Council, as Director of the Secretariat of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, so I am talking about a member of the Presidency of the State and, let's say, to take the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which is approximately the rank of the Deputy Director of the General Inspectorate of the Coalition, a legal adviser in the Court, or less than a legal adviser in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, that, let's say, in the rank of a member of the Competition Council, or a Vice-President of the Commission for concessions, etc., I am not going further into the laboratory. Yes, if nothing else, this analysis can help all of us in the need of understanding, if anyone else has any real illusions that we don't need a state-level law that regulates the area of pay. I would like to mention that, among other things, this reminds me,... in the first debate on the principles of this law, among other things, we reminded us exactly of the importance of correcting this wrong hierarchical relationship between state institutions and, precisely, that it was also the reason that we said that we would support them, in the final empire, this law, if this necessary hierarchy were provided and of course and flexibility, especially in the financial sector, which... would allow... in the appropriate mechanisms not to violate the basic relations between the institutions in BiH. And in that sense, I'm going to remind you, let's just say, that no extras, no extras, when it comes to Parliament and parliamentarians, here I am not a professional, I'm only receiving a flat-rate, but I think that such things can be regulated in some other way, but that no additions special to the salary, which would lead to a situation where total incomes disrupt the overall balance between institutions. I must say that, unfortunately, some quantification that was carried out yesterday, among other things, showed that, possibly, a parliamentary one. with some extras, cobwebs, etc. exceeded, for example. receiving a member of the Bureau. I don't think that's good. Yes... and in that sense, I want to mention that... we, among other things, mentioned this as a basis and a basis for our relationship to... this law. I finally don't know what we got with the adopted, and today what we would possibly get with today's proposed amendments to adoption. So we have a set of amendments, one that has passed, one that would possibly pass today, that would deny some already adopted solutions, somehow... possibly repeat. What do we get in the end? This, I just want to mention 70 as... an important assumption of the BiH Party's relationship to this proposal, and in that sense, I appreciate that it would be good today after the debate, after any argument we hear about and against the relevant amendments to the additional, so the changes to which further changes are made, along with all of this, that if the resolution minister can immediately respond in terms of these issues that I have mentioned, if not, that perhaps we are prolonging the statement of the law itself until we see what we are ultimately getting with all these solutions. Is it possible that you are being disturbed, is there any other way to improve this area, or is it possible to make sure that the receipts, the total receipts, say, disrupt the overall structure between state-level state-level institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18531	I thank the distinguished representative Hadžiahmetović. The following has been registered for discussion by the esteemed MP Mitrović. Is it a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18532	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, that I too wish for successful work in the coming period for Mr. Lozančić to pass as many laws as possible during this period, given the choices that follow us and the policy that will inevitably be led here in order to make the best local choices by political parties. What I'm saying is it's good to get this area settled in by law. It's one thing for sure where we all agree, but what I want to say is also that when we propose the law, however, long-thinking, we need to be realistic and objective to bring and arrange that area in some of the frameworks that we live in in this country today, so we're not handling someone else, so here we go in that direction to get a race on which level, in which municipality, in which entity, we're going to have a bigger salary. Perhaps it should have been first – here, there is no Mr. Jovičić here, listening to him and saying that some chiefs have 3, 3.5 4,000 marks, it is true that they have, unfortunately – and if and why it was necessary to do the roof law, then it was necessary to do so for such a thing when it comes to public institutions, when it comes to local administration. Because people really don't have scales, and every day and every morning, in every city, and even in the city where I live and where I come from, if you come early, you'll see people in containers, who have some incomes as pensioners, but obviously you can't survive these receipts, so they have to get early to try to find something for themselves. I'm not saying this for political reasons, I'm saying this is really supposed to do this matter, here's what I agree, on the roof, generally from the state level to the community itself. I would tell Mr. Jovičić as well, but really – he's not here – if we race what needs to be compared to someone, if we watch some of them buy planes, then we should buy someone in another entity. If he buys this one in the community, he should buy another in the municipality. I don't think we should, especially when we look at the privatisation process for a lot of failures: we've sold strategic enterprises, we've left workers out of work, we've brought 71 companies into bankruptcy. Guys, nobody's thinking about it here. And money is spent. So this law, which is proposed here, when we look at these institutions and look at people who really need help and raise their own incomes, they're officials, they're administrative workers. It's something similar to a local level in municipalities where you have a worker receiving 250, 300 marks, and the advisor receives 3,000 marks. And the mirror is a community, and that's what I compare when we go to the state level, because that's the man that a citizen meets directly. He's unhappy, he's quiet, and he's asking himself a question of when and where we're going to get these people money. If that was where it was going, if we were slowly fixing the lowest, I would agree. Good indicator, no one's paying attention to where we draw these funds from. From the economy. What kind of business do we have? We don't have any. Based on... sales of business entities, these assets are being drawn up and, what little bit does about production, and we're putting it in a state where the question of when it's going to stop. We're on the media and we're listening to a lot of places strike, work, strike. Someone's fighting. However, the state, entities, municipalities, are not taking care of that. Are these amendments proposed by colleagues going to fix something? I doubt it. Now, right now, I can't... I can't see, until we see what amendments we're going to bring, but as it is, I'm a law like this, as a representative of the DNS can't support both for these reasons, and I'd like to once objectively, here's what we're talking about other laws, but... this law, which regulates this area, we're really looking at. We need to see that people who first find a job in public administrations, so on a local level, his first job is the director, he has 2,000 or 3,000 marks of salary, and an administrative worker in the company may be working for 20 years or 30 years, or he's retired, he has 250. There's not a lot of cases like that. I'm afraid with this law at this level, at the state level, we don't have such cases. Was all that taken care of? I mean, how... it's working at lower levels, that the race is going to the state level, not paying attention from this Parliament to settle the situation to the local level and to all public institutions. For this reason, since it has not been taken care of, I do not think this law... has been objectively done, prepared, and as a representative of the Democratic People's Union I will not be able to vote and I will be against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18533	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Izetbegović
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18534	I'm looking for a break for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18535	I'll give you half an hour, but it'll be half an hour. So, pick-up at 3:40. 72 [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats to keep working. The next person reported for the debate is a respected representative, Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18537	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, first I would like to say my brief vision of this law, and then I would like to explain the amendment that I have proposed. The PDP initially had the view that it was necessary to pass a law that would regulate this area, that we had really had one rsomonyad so far when it comes to salaries in BiH institutions and that there was so much illogicalness that it was high time for this issue to be seriously considered. The second thing is internal relations, whether these relationships are now affected as we should, but it is quite certain that the adoption of one such law provides then the possibility of various corrections and improvements, were at this stage as we prepare to... decide on the law, but there are ways and mechanisms to, behold, by following an economic and social situation, then be able to intervene, or react, so that this position of the state is not... compromised. I think there are some amendments that suggest one such approach, one such way out of this situation. I want to draw our attention to the amendment I delivered. The amendment, however, was one of the amendments that I had proposed, which were discussed at the Finance Commission, and on that commission one principle, which I suggested to these amendments, is that the salaries of advisors should be tied to the salaries of ministerial assistants, was accepted. Thus, it was regulated by the Law on State Service in BiH institutions where it explicitly stands... in Article 43 (1) of the salary and compensation of advisors is tied to the salary of ministerial assistants from the fifth grade. This time, therefore, the principle has been accepted, and then in this general procedure, given that there have been a lot of changes in coefficients, the coefficients have not been changed. And therefore, my amendment applies only to those structures that were related to this provision of the Law on State Servants, and not to others, and in this context, therefore, it is an amendment that the adviser of the Minister, Deputy Minister, the Chief of Staff of the Deputy Ministers have a coefficient of 4.2 as well as a proposal to have an assistant... minister. I want to point out here that if there were to be a solution like this that the minister's advisor, here I'm going to take it, has a 3.55 coefficient that is equal to the head of the department,... one absurd, because we have to go from the fact that advisors have to be experts in their field, that at least in one area from which they advise the minister have more experience and knowledge than I am a minister. With such a coefficient as it is now, I ask the question: Who will leave his post somewhere where he works, and in particular it is problematic for those who work outside Sarajevo and come, to commit to the Minister and Deputy Minister, to his climate position and mandate, to the salary he has, I say, the head of the department which is a civil servant, who has all other protections, and with that advisers of the Ministers have provisions 73 concerning the Law of Conflict of Interest exactly the same as the Minister? So, they can't be anywhere else, and that's why I really think that this and the failure came because they told me in the Commission that the principle was accepted, that the coefficients were not harmonised, that this was corrected and that this was actually considered an integral proposal from the Finance Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18538	I thank the honourable representative. The next is distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18539	Dear President, colleagues, fellow representatives, distinguished guests, we at the People's Party Work for the better think that wages are not such a big problem, whether they were two, five, or ten thousand marks. I am thinking specifically of MPs and also of all other institutions, because if we compare that through the external trade deficit, within an hour of this debate and more, we lose the full annual salary of all MPs and envoys in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And imagine now the absurdity: we will lose time and effort and debate over something, where, on the other hand, in an hour, we lose that amount of money to BiH citizens in foreign trade. For this reason, I have also suggested amendments to bind representatives' salaries to certain results, especially in the external trade deficit. I think that would be the right way to oblige us to work better, so we have to have an effect in these areas that money from BiH from our citizens' pockets doesn't go into the pockets of citizens of another country. The citizens today cover the duties of the natural persons, the duties of the economic operators, because we had a report from the Central Bank in which the governor even told us that 11 million, 11 billion marks were placed on the loans, and that the savings were about five and that the difference was about six billion marks, we practically covered the external trade deficit most of it. For that reason, I suggest that some of my amendments be adopted and we at the People's Party work for the better would then be willing to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18540	Thank you. Replica: Honored Representative Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18541	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I apologized, waiting for my distinguished colleague and neighbour, Mr. Jovan Mitrović, to return, so that I could replicate to him in relation to this debate he had before the break. It refers to its initiative to adopt, adopt or adopt at BiH level, or launch an initiative to adopt a framework law on salaries and other lower levels fees, not only at level 74 BiH. Since the Democratic People's Union is an absolute political party against any authority from the state level, from the level of entities to the state, or the level of BiH, I wonder whether it is now a new course of the DNS that wants this matter to be settled, although I do not dispute one chaos in spending budgets at the level of BiH all, so from local communities to canton, entity and state.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18542	Thank you. Replication response: Honorable representative Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18543	I just want to say to my colleague that it's not a new course, but I think it's an area that deserves to simply try to equalise... wages when it comes to public institutions. Just like I said: local, entity and state institutions for reasons that many things aren't controlled today. It's just that today it's out of control that it's simply selling state property, what I said, buying planes, and why, I don't know. He goes to games, no one... accounts. These are things that will not endanger the entity or the local level, and help the normal state to function as it should. And that's why we should essentially start over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18544	Thank you. Replication to Replication: Honored Representative Prodanović
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18545	... I am very pleased to see Mr Mitrović as part of the new parliamentary majority, i.e. the existing parliamentary majority in the BiH Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18546	The following has been registered for discussion by the distinguished representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18547	Mr. Chairman, you see, I'm a little surprised by the tone of today's debate on this law, given the tone of debate at first reading. I must say that, here, not by my own fault, I found myself in that group of lucky winners of those gold shovels, although before that, the SDS was completely public, and even then, and after that, he held that it was against such a formulated and defined law. I must admit, though, you can't get anything but a shovel from the communists, because they leave the stars to themselves, so I couldn't even get past this shovel. Well, you see, what disappointed me, in this first reading, is a fact and is one relationship to colleagues in this House where we all work together. That 75 is what I am, I must really say frankly, disappointed, of course, with the full right that each of us should and have its political views and should bring them out here publicly. But then there was a lot of insults, insults, demeaning, calling, I guess, all those who didn't bark loudly enough against. And here I was thinking about what I could give these guys if they didn't bite. Well, I haven't found, well, I haven't found anything appropriate yet, to give anything away, except maybe a basket, but here's what I'll leave for a while. I think we should at least be correct about each other here. I understand the absolute position of every political party and the use of every situation for promotion, for taking voters. Of course, every real assessment of how much the voter will take, but I think there's... one code, at least it should be quiet and when we don't have it here. I remember at some point, at the time of that communist regime, the most advanced ones were those who showed friends, godfathers, and even more so if they were able to somehow show their relatives to their superiors. That would be some sure guarantee that they'd advance, and that I'd get the trust of the superiors. I had a feeling a similar method was used last time. That's why I took the discussion to talk about this part first, and later on about the amendment. Of course, I'll apologize to everyone, but I don't want anyone to rise politically through the SDS, especially... if we're at the time absolutely clear that we're against this law. You know, there's, there's a joke, I apologize right now, I'll apologize for this, I have to apologize, because he's painting this for me. He says they asked old grandma in the morning when she wakes up what she does first. She says, well, son, I do a little work. He says good grandma, and what else do you do? Well, he says, "I'm in great need." Well, good grandma, she says, and then what do you do? Then, son, I get up. So, I'm against getting up, after all of us have done that little and big need here in Parliament. I needed to really say this, because here I found myself as a lucky winner on that list, I repeat, I guess not with my own guilt or perhaps yes. IVratić be back on the amendments now. I was also a member of the Administrative Commission, as well as in the previous meeting, of the view that I today still believe that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should pass a law defining salaries. When I say pay, I mean pay-class relations in BiH-level institutions. That's what I'm thinking today. And without it, it's not possible to function properly. That's why I've put in an amendment that I'm actually allowing to pass the law in this House, not pay. So, to pass the law without counting wages, neither we, nor journalists, nor the public, nor those who are against it. And for this reason, I have tabled an amendment to Article 7, which says that words of 85% are defined by words, meaning they change words, in percentage and add a position, which reads: the amount of percentage is determined by the Council of Ministers, taking into account the heights of salaries for personal jobs in entities and cantons, and the economic and social situation in BiH. Here it was meant that this coefficient is determined along with the budget, because, of course, on that basis, only budget planning can be planned. So you have to determine this in order to plan the budget, and it would practically adopt in Parliament with the adoption of the budget. I thought that in this way I was not only relaxing the situation but, in fact, making it possible for the law to be passed without anyone talking about the heights of the salary. This amendment did not receive support from the commission, but here I have renewed it today for Parliament and... I would ask my colleagues to really consider further a possible positive statement on this amendment. 76 The second group of amendments are amendments to the amendments adopted. And here I have to say that I only invested them because I had one group of amendments, and we in the SDS had, which reduces certain levels, means higher levels for some percentages of higher classes, and they increase lower. And then the commission made a selective approach to this problem, so, I don't know, it downplayed here, let's say, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and his deputies, etc., and the rest of them... kept everything on those levels. I thought it wasn't step-by-step, it wasn't necessary to work like that. That's why I've made a counter-alignment that even those who have been reduced in that whole structure, I don't know how many classes, don't want them to be reduced either. And I don't see why it would be, because this isn't just about wages. This is about relationships... business, position, etc. where there is, of course, a little follow-up, and that's why I put those counter-amendments in. In the end, I'm sorry I didn't make an amendment. And I have to be honest: if I hadn't studied the report to a sufficient extent, because this Commission report is such that a more serious analysis was really needed which I am not, and here I accept a kind of responsibility now on my own, I haven't paid enough attention. Namely, amandman iv.e was adopted. In its position (2), the non-professional MP -- a delegate -- has a pay gap between the salary they make in the home home and the salary he would make as a professional MP -- a delegate in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I think this is a very... bad solution. I'm saying I didn't make the amendment, but I'll say it's a bad solution. I think this solution opens up several serious opportunities to create problems in the next period. In fact, there are many parliaments in the world where MPs are obliged to be professional. It's not just about taking funds from the budget, it's about having a relationship with the job. I fall into those who also think that we should all be professional here, and of course we didn't do it that way, but we gave everyone a choice. The worst option is to choose not to be professional and to have admissions professionally. And that's this variant. So, from this variant, I don't know if there's any worse. So we're now creating the possibility that someone who gets a job at a private company will bring a confirmation from a private company that they receive a minimum of 250 marks and take the difference between not knowing how much they are now, it's irrelevant, the current 2,000 marks. And to always come here and say: I'm not a professional, I don't have that kind of obligation like you, you have to do it a little bit more seriously, you're professionals, I have a job, I have to work with a private, I can't come to every session. Goldie's looking at me, and I wasn't talking about teachers. So I'm saying, I think this is a bad solution. I haven't made an amendment, but it would be good if at least those who think about voting for this bill could do well if they could avoid this situation. I think you would help make the position of MPs much clearer in this parallel, including the whole of Parliament. I apologize again in the first part. I hope I didn't produce... replicas, and if I did, right now let me say that I won't answer any of the lines I get, because I don't think I can say anything smarter than what I said. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18548	Thank you. Is it a replica? Dear Representative Križanović: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18549	Oh, this would actually be more of a business intervention again, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I have no intention of replicating my colleague Novaković, because I have no replica on jokes. And jokes are like jokes, and I don't know how to replicate them either. Well, you see, I'm going back to business. Take article 119. You will see that the debate in the second reading is about amendments. In contrast, today's discussion of jokes is allowed, not principles. And why aren't we answering our word today? We said in our first reading that it was a bad law for us, that it was impossible to fix it with amendments. And, uh, we didn't make any amendments. Is that our right? Why does someone call us that? That it's such a bad law, says the number of amendments, says today's debate and probably the result of the vote. So leave us alone. That's what I wanted you to do: protect us and stick to the Rules of Procedure. Let's get to the amendments and get this job done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18550	I thank the esteemed representative Križanović. The following has been registered for discussion by the honourable representative of Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18551	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to join today's debate on the amendments that are given here. And as I was very actively involved in the work on the Commission and trying to make amendments to certain things, it is evident, already once my colleague Križanović said, that such a law that is before us, and especially after the amendments adopted on the Commission, that it is actually almost irreparable, because the attempt to sniff out this in several obvious places can lead to the adoption of a law, which will leave a much greater number of injustices than we have today when this law is not done. We think there's a way out of it that we can find a solution. I think we're all richer for one great experience after these two debates and after all these laws and amendments like this. I must admit that I highly appreciate the efforts they have made, especially colleagues from the U.S.A., and we on the Commission,... to a large extent, shared an opinion on concrete proposals. And I think their amendments, as a package, are a good attempt to fix it, but unfortunately it's incorrigible. That's exactly why I'm going to make two concrete proposals and I'm going to add them to you here today to end this debate. Before that, I would like to say that by respecting the amendment and commenting on some of the amendments that are given here, I think that the amendment is also a good attempt for colleagues from Novaković to get out of this difficult situation, to adopt this law, as he said, without the pay itself, whether, without that, without the amount of funds, or without the value that the law recognises, what is the value of the coefficient. And that was his suggestion, which is quite interesting at first sight. However, many of the ratios given in this bill, especially after commission work: the ratios are not fine. And precisely because of these ratios that aren't right, you can't solve everything with this proposal that's actually pretty good. If you'd come to me from the assumption that the parliamentary salaries that, I apologize for receiving, the salary plus the flat-rate, plus the past work, are very interesting, everyone uses the category of past work, it's the only one from Kardelj that's been preserved. You can imagine what it looks like: past work was invented in the social system! In a system like this, there's no such thing as capitalism in past work, I mean, we know it doesn't exist. You can think of past work: an MP comes to Parliament and then immediately wants the work of 1,000 marks to pass. I mean, there's no such thing. But receiving MPs, receiving, so: salary plus past work, plus cobwebs, amounts to over 6,000 marks. If this ratio – Mr Novaković, I follow your logic and try to say why you have a good try, but it is not, it does not lead us to a good solution – if the MP is reduced to the right measure, which is incomparably less than 6,000, then we will come to the fact that soldiers and police officers, professional staff will have paid much less than they do now, if we keep these ratios. And therefore, that is why I find it difficult with your amendment. Also, I want to say, since it's been said here that no one has objected to the presidency. Željko Komšić, as a member of the presidency, has publicly declared that he is against this and that it is not moral to have a salary in today's situation that would be given to him. What I also think is wrong and I agree with Mr Novaković: I was against this amendment on the Commission that MPs who are not professional... have the right to accept the difference. Without that amendment, the Commission's proposal reduced the income for 70 people from that Article 10. ...by 700 marks and increased by over 10,000 marks with this amendment. So the proposal that we have here now, after the commission phase, this parliamentary ensemble in both homes with the secretaries and the chairman, is now more expensive than it was before these amendments. If I've been inaccurate with some numbers, I'm sorry, I'm willing to tell everyone about those numbers. Someone on the break here said these weren't parliamentary wages. These are actually loans. The amount of over 6,000 marks is a loan from these people. And simply, we're against it, precisely for those reasons. What I'm sorry for, and I'm sorry Mr. Šakota didn't tell us, or the minister, earlier. This package weighs 55 million marks, no amendments. With these amendments, it weighs a few million dollars. Whether it's 1.5 million or 2.5 million, we can discuss it. 1.5 million, so it weighs 1.5 million, so the package we now have ahead of us. And that's where the question comes from. It has also been increased here, it is possible to increase in the mass of military and police and civil servants, somewhere around 5% compared to what was, it was left with the possibility of those amendments, from 25 to 30 to go that supplement. There. Please... just increase that. Just the police. So, the state amendment officials, just a little bit, with the amendment to Articles 12, 14 and 24, to those members, increased on average by about 5%. Isn't that right, Mr. Šakota? So, for these reasons, there was this increase. 79 Why am I saying this? I think it's clear that you need to coordinate entity and state employees who are doing the same job. I agree with that intensity, and that's good. I also believe that police officers, professional staff, civil servants and soldiers need to increase the incomes they now have. But it can be done by Parliament's decision. Also, I do, and I want to stress it once again that the MP has been brought here again in a position to have higher incomes monthly than the head of state. Well, a member of the Bureau, that's the head of state, as far as I know. Okay, so three MPs have higher incomes per month than three members of the presidency. There, three MPs rather than a complete head of state with us. Yes, it is. For these very reasons, I believe that there is actually a special test on the MPs. For these reasons, I also believe that if in Croatia the ratio of MPs and average salaries is 4:1 and the candidate is for the EU; in Slovenia, and they are EU members, 5:1; then we, that we are a super member, could not justify 8.5:1. For these reasons, I propose two conclusions: 1. It is up to the Council of Ministers to prepare a new bill based on the discussions so far and on a proposal on the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions. 2. It is up to the competent authorities to immediately increase the existing coefficients by 10% to civil servants and professional staff (treated to members 12, 14 and 25). Proposal of law), professional military personnel (treated by Article 17.) police officers (thired to members of 21.) and employees (treated by Article 27)). In this way, part of the figure of 56, or 7 million, which is now increasing with this proposal from the Commission, part of these funds would cover exactly this conclusion proposal. So, if these people increased by 10% and, by our calculations, that would be a little bit more, something about half of this amount that's supposed to be around. In this way, they would resolve the existing injustices that exist and not create new ones. And in the end, if it was unclear with those gold shovels, it would be clear now, yes. If someone gets the gold shovels of the front row, and if this stops, we can get the gold star of Europe all of us who can shoot down, if we can shoot down. I told the high representative yesterday to congratulate him on the police coalition, she's back on track. In this law, as they say, if Bog doesn't help us, the police coalition will re-adopt this and then nothing, let's move on. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18552	Dear Representative Zorić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18553	I was going to say here that Mr. Lagumdžija said in his statement that it wasn't true that the presidency didn't object. I have a memo from the Bureau relating to the Payments Act. They're just asking that some, uh, employees in the presidency get paid. No Niko suggested that the salary be reduced, either to a member of the presidency, or to someone else. And what's moral, I think it's not moral for Željko Komšić to be a Croatian member of the presidency. It is also not moral for Zlatko Lagumdžija as president of the multiethnic party to propose only a Croatian member of the presidency, i.e., I would say, a Hrvat for a member of the presidency. Because Zlatko probably did it, offered to run 80 Western Herzegovina County, where the Hrvat live the most, not Tuzlan, and then proposed to be a member of the Hrvat presidency, not Bošnjak.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18554	Correction of the incorrect allegation: the esteemed second vice president, Dr Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18555	I'll leave the corrections of all those incorrect allegations when I have my own discussion... I have. But this is more like a vague assumption, since Mr. Lagumdžija spoke of past work and Mr. Kardelj. He'll be close to the background of what Mr. Novaković was talking about. I hope you've all been watching a cult theatre show, Radovan III.. And there's also talked about one past work but more like a physiological need, and that definition has been since there's been a man.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18556	The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed First Vice-President Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18557	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, when it comes to the party's position on BiH, he was brought out. Of course, it's a way of interpreting, understanding, malicious, well-intentioned, etc. And we've repeated it through our deputy chief, and we're going to act like it... and in the process. When it comes to amendments, we recognize that there are some amendments that could come to what Azra Hadžiahmetović was talking about, but we will see... during the statement of what it is. I have reported more... to try to answer, or explain why I will not answer one question, which Mr Lagumdžija and SDP MPs in the state parliament have asked me in a very original way through transparency, probably at a session of the main committee or congress held here in front of the building. And they're usually very skilled when it comes to photographs and other skills, so to speak. So people asked me, Lagumdžija and the MPs sitting here, my colleagues, could ask me directly, the following: berize, what will make you pay more when your children are in America? The Lagumdžija here lies again with no eyes that the salaries of the MPs are 6,000 marks. It's pathological hatred for this House. It's not normal anymore. So, Mr. Lagumdžija, you and your colleagues sitting here are the last people who have the moral right to ask me why I'm asking for a salary increase. First of all, you're lying, I'm not asking for a raise. Second of all, you're planning on family stuff, you're planning on personal stuff. And then you're disgusted when you experience what you're experiencing these days. I'm really begging you, get away from me.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18558	Thank you. 81 Replica: Honorable representative of Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18559	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry if my colleague Belkić... became nervous about my discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18560	No, not because of the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18561	I'm also sorry if he didn't like some banner, where he'd already seen it. I didn't carry any banners, so I don't know what he was talking to me about. And since I'm lying, for 6,000, I'm referring you to a member of the 10th class, he's 8.4. I'm referring you to a member of the 11th, who's called the Representative's Compensation: that's 2.0, I'm referring you to a Article 29 law that's in front of you, which is called the Paid Supplement, which can be up to 20% of the basic salary, which is conditionally said, come on, it doesn't have to be all 20-16. When you collect the salary from the law, then the item Paid Supplement, then the addition of the Representative's fee, knowingly I'm not talking about a warm meal, when we have a restaurant where there's no VAT, so now I'm letting go of those other things, but I'm just talking about pay, salary allowance and representation fee, a total of 12.0. When you multiply that by 500 marks, you're going to get 6,000. So much for lying. Everything else, Mr. Belkić, I'm very sorry that you came into a position to worry so much about something that doesn't matter to you at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18562	Replica response: Honored representative, First Vice-President Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18563	So, Mr. Lagumdžija, I'm last time, precisely because of the kind of person you came out here and publicly told me not how much my salary is but as much as I am the chairman, one of the chairmans, I'm taking this home. Let me remind you: 2,060 marks of pay, dropped 800 marks, that warm meal, all those categories you loathe, and you probably get them somewhere: 3,400 marks. You heard what the party's position is for BiH, and you're still saying we're looking for a six thousand-dollar salary.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18564	Thank you. Next replica: esteemed representative Zorić. He's giving up. Dear Representative Kalabić: Replica. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18565	There are more questions if there's an opportunity, given that Mr. Lagumdžija has made one proposal here, given that the result of the failure to adopt this law would be, is it so, the disputed 50 and some million marks we've predicted, given our practice that entities remain what we don't spend, I think it's also time to give to those who know how to dispose and who know what they're doing, is this going in that direction that we know. So, right away, you make the rules that this rest of the funds will be allocated, what we don't know in any way. So I'm saying, I think it's a lot more acceptable, if the whole story is that you take besides those couples that have the entiets to leave it to them in this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18566	Correction of the incorrect allegation: the esteemed representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18567	Here, I really called it business, as it is called. It is an netačan allegation that anyone from the Party for BiH has asked for salaries as planned, especially for MPs in this house, as provided for by this law. kolega Lagumdžija, when the first reading was the principles of the law, the position of the party, if you listened carefully, was that we support the adoption of the Law on Salaries, that we support the alignment necessary with the economic and social situation, respect... the range between the institutions in the state and the provision of a flexible approach, which would allow the Council of Ministers to adjust the level of pay in all state institutions the situation in the country with the budget, the economic and social sector, etc. As you used it for other purposes, propagating that the MPs of the Party for BiH Party Party Party advocated high parliamentary salaries, you may have heard somewhere from another MP, certainly not here in this room and certainly not from any of the MPs of the Party for BiH. I've called this a correction of an incorrect quote, and I wish this situation hadn't happened, because the incorrect quote here is called a different word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18568	Thank you. Dear Representative Bahtić. Correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18569	The replicas don't fail,...there's a special discussion. Replication to Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's presentation. I think that, here, let all MPs say, especially... the members of the Finance Commission and the budget that this man is demagogue, how much he spills to the people of the hollow. Here, on the Commission, there have been amendments – I have proposed amendments, and I am glad that the amendments have passed – to increase salaries to civil servants and employees. It's been passed by both the police and the border police and the administration, MP Lagumdžija has not voted in favour of any increase in government officials or employees or police, he hasn't voted anything, he's now dissipating demagogy, he's like... Well, 83 you have a chance, vote. We're... the amendments were adopted there. Don't accuse anyone else. No one here cares, no one likes money anymore, no one robs this people... until the SDP. So now a colleague... would tell us: in Bihac, the chief has 4,100 marks of salary and 1,300 supplements. Whom, since you're not ashamed to put there: the man from Cazin is not a man from Cazin. Well, these are the methods of the saviour... I can pass. This people are no longer fools. /Shortly severed connection. Also, I want to say that what the SDP is doing is trying to pay for honest and moral people. It's out of my mind. And the most immoral person in BiH, I say responsibly, is Zlatko Lagumdžija. The man has three apartments, I went, knocked on the door, three apartments, believe me. How many are your receipts, Mr. Lagumdžija? You have six receiving points, you don't know, you don't know where you're coming from, you never show up. You've got receipts for both work and hard work. You're the most expensive messenger here. You're not even here for two hours at the session, and you have an 84-mark breaker. Count on how long you're here, and you'll see that you're far the most expensive member of Parliament. You don't earn anything, you spill demagogue and hollow. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18570	Dear Representative Denis Bećirović: Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18571	Due to the re-escalation, this time, verbal vandalism from Mr Bahtić and reasonable suspicions that this verbal vandalism could grow as in the previous weeks and in physical vandalism, in the name of the club I am asking for a break of 20 minutes, and in the meantime I propose to fence myself from Mr Bahtić for those attacks against the previous media, in accordance with Article 77(1).
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18572	Break 20 minutes. We'll continue at 17.00 hours. Everything's in order. We're continuing our work. Does the SDP Club's name want to talk to anyone? Dear Representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18574	I would like to say on behalf of the SDP Club that the SDP Club is proposing that we return to the agenda point and try to conduct a debate on what the solutions are legal, and that it be the main backbone of this debate. It is obvious that a little passion has risen and that we have jumped out of the framework, slightly speaking, of polite address and action in this House. We believe that all MPs, regardless of the various political options, should nevertheless express one elemental respect and respect for each other, and that this must be some minimum that we must not go under in this Parliament, protecting and elevating this Parliament. So, we propose to go back to the agenda point, and of course, if we continue to have such a practice unargued, in particular discussions that have nothing to do with 84 points of the agenda, and we reserve the right for ourselves to use a wide range of diapases of democratic measures and moves to put an end to such behaviour, but I repeat, our proposal is really to go back to this agenda point and in one way and with one dose of mutual respect and respect, regardless of our political differences, we try to have a debate in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18575	Thank you. We've got an earlier report for replicas. Dear Representative Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18576	I have to replicate. First, a colleague didn't respond, then they're something: a verbal physical attack here. Who am I attacking here? Who am I verbally here, I don't know. Apparently, they're coming from the SDP of sada Bahtić that I'm their nightmare, that they have a phobia, as I understand it. Did I look at someone ugly here? I merely expressed the fact that it is a demagogy: that they are bussed that they are the Social Democrats, that they are for workers, for civil servants, and on the Commission they voted against. He didn't adopt anything, what he stood for, except for MPs and civil servants, and here they talk differently. Is the demagogy saying that they took pictures of their SDP chief that he has 5.5 thousand marks, he has two salaries of members of the presidency. And in Tuzla, it's probably bigger than the State Minister. Is that demagogy? Is that some kind of verbal attack? Did the demagogues take three brewers, rob a billion marks? Is that a demagogy, too? So no one can shut me down that microphone, you can get these media of yours, these, these, which you control, you can and I don't care, but you can't take my microphone, that's what my people made it possible for me, those my constituents. I'll always say where I have the facts, what's true, whether it's who or not like it. And as your president is, it's your problem not to have the courage to tell him. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18577	Honorable representative Jovičić: replica. Excuse me, Your Honor. Honored representative Križanović: business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18578	I'm really sorry to have to say, we've been warning today all day to get back to work, on the agenda! But here, because in one period of the session it was a normal atmosphere and we started working, it was obviously boring to some, so they were looking for these kind of... replicas and attacks. And we realized that we just didn't have to listen to this. So please understand, we will withdraw until the debate on this point is over and we will return to the next item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18579	Next line: Honorable representative Jovičić. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18580	I was just about to announce this. When they maim us to the maximum, at every point of the agenda, they retreat. I love it here, and I'll never blame any of my colleagues, even if they verbally insult me, but wrapped up in some kind of cultural contamination, brainwashing, it's gone beyond measure. This has been going on for several sessions in continuum. They maintain the tirada, they create such an ambience, and they just retreat. If you don't want to participate, and welcome to always sit here, but don't start this story that won't get any support from anyone! They're not worth replicating right now, but for the media. What story of 6,000 marks? We're not all the same people here. I fully support Mr. Belkić, he said publicly, and last time I said, "I'll do it again." My salary was 2,012 marks, dropped 840 marks, period. My past work would be everywhere if I worked, I don't know where, at the market. But when I say we're not all the same, I wanted to tell Mr. Lagumdžija, he's being driven by the car party, that's his problem, not mine. I pay the driver, that's my terms, 600 marks a man, doesn't recognize Parliament, I pay the fuel, I don't confess to Parliament, I rent the car from my friend, I don't give me Parliament. Are we all the same? So we're not. But I don't want to defend myself. And I didn't come here, this isn't a social-involvement facility, you'd be doing something, I could handle it. But please, this story and demagogue should be once mystified: what is the goal of all this!? That is why I now propose, through this replica, you know that it is very difficult for us MPs from the RS to come here to the meetings of Parliament, because of the ambience that is always being created unfavorably for us. This is not the pressure to support this law. Will you pass this bill, won't you? We will find a solution to pay us RS, and then you will say: we are breaking BiH. That's not true. Here, we'll be financed by the RS. Here we will be financed by the RS parliament. Then what? Then you'll say, here, you've already separated from the U.S.A., you're building your own country. It's not true, it's not true. We want to be a constructive part of this Parliament, this is our country, gentlemen, once you understand. Once you understand. Our country, for which we fight more than the SDP that breaks everything. But you're respecting us.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18581	We can do it a little bit, we can do it a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18582	We are not asking you to respect everything, as we will not, and, Mr Izetbegović, you cannot, by amendment, suggest that the MP has a coefficient of 4.5, and somewhere inspector some 5.5 and 6. It is a degradation of MPs and therefore, come on, support what I have proposed: MPs without pay, and everyone else in the institutions 100 marks of wages. How long is this country going to function? Then there will be demonstrations, not Lagundžijin, but people who will be bitter, 23,000 people. Please nice and let me finish, let me finish. This isn't a threat, it's just misery and despair to get out of this situation, which the SDP always mounts. And I prayed a moment ago: don't leave Parliament, when they ask for a break, you never know what they will do to you! I take care of everyone and I want to feel comfortable here, this is my parliament. I moved into this building with Dr. Ajanović when you weren't even here. What do we do now? And I'm the most real one. And lucky it wasn't made by communists, they were, but owned by this BiH Parliament, our building. And please, you'll get another initiative: whenever you set up meetings here, any kind of meeting, don't write in the Joint 86 Institutions Building, at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Building, we own this building. At least we can do it. She's not from the Joint Institutions, she's ours, Parliament. Someone's gonna come for me, be an MP, and they're gonna keep doing it. So let me finish what I thought. Don't judge us here for standing up for some big paychecks. Look at what they're doing in entities, cantons and municipalities! And if we've gone too far, I repeat, this isn't a demagogy, send us back to the pay of 200 marks, to finish this story, because of a reporter who won't publish this. Of course, because it won't work. And this SDP story really can't be put up with anymore. Like this, they make a mess all day and every time, every session, then they disappear. Like, now they're gonna listen on the Internet, so come on. What was that? And there's 42 up there!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18583	Thank you. Are there any more reported replicas, false allegations, or business interventions?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18584	I'm sorry, just to get the medical department to take out these files. Come on, take it out! So what are we gonna do, not play with Parliament?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18585	Dear Representative Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18586	I had one replica, more like an explanation, but Zlatko Lagumdžija came out. But, well, there's one other man here who'll probably explain what's going on. So, I have one piece of paper here that says that he, I really wasn't there when he was discussing, when he suggested this, it's probably some conclusion that talks about resolving the salaries of officials, police officers, military personnel. However, I was present when Bakir Izetbegović spoke of, with whom I agree and support, his discussion. However, I ask: Is the actual author of this conclusion Lagumdžija, signed Lagumdžija, Zlatko Lagumdžija or Bakir Izetbegović? This is about this conclusion number two. Zlatko Lagumdžija, is this his or is this your conclusion? Who is the real author of this proposal's conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18587	Thank you. I don't have any more replications, misstatements and anything else. The next one was registered for the debate by the esteemed representative Sokolović. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18588	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, so the position of the SDA visas of this law has been said by the club president. However, I have subsequently tabled one amendment to this law and, here, just a few words to explain, and it is attached to Article 29. where it is said that: The persons performing the inspector's duties and the control of arms and military equipment at the Inspectorate at the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, which are with special powers, also... also belongs to salary compensation. And I'm here, I explained it in a few sentences. The MPs got, so I wouldn't take much time, because we've spent a lot of time, I'd ask the MPs to support this amendment, because it only binds to two people working in this inspectorate. And, I think because of the work they're currently dealing with, the control... matter and the review... the barracks in which so far there have been weapons, the possibility of radiation, etc., I think it's a little harder work, and that it can be classified through Article 29. in the attitude (1) exactly the way I suggested here. Here, I would ask the MPs to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18589	I thank the honourable representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18590	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18591	Please. Replica: Honorable representative Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18592	So it took me a while to see, to figure out what Mr. Kadrić was asking me. So, the SDA thought we shouldn't raise our salaries, but you need to raise your wages a little bit, like I said, to soldiers, officials, etc. And then we made one coherent material. It's not like that: let's leave our salaries where they are, so, yes, then, what Mr. Jovičić said, some inspector there has a higher salary than we do. That's not true. We didn't do it. The inspectors go from 2 to 3.8. Our salary is 4.05. We didn't just throw it at the MPs. We've done it well. And Lagumdžija must have realized he'd be guilty in front of 23,000 people, which stopped them from getting paid, and he didn't systematically engage in these things as we systematically indulged, so now here in photofinish he started proposing things like that, when he realized he was going to be guilty that soldiers and cops didn't get paid, etc. Then he started to fix himself, now in the last few minutes, here before the vote. Our material is completely coherent. Yes, it's the conclusion now that it's too late.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18593	Thank you. The following has applied for the debate, the distinguished representative of Prodanović. Registered electronically, no problem. The next is Honorable Representative Bahtić. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18594	I'll take some things out anyway... very briefly. First of all, many things have been heard here that do not contribute to strengthening the state and strengthening state institutions and in favour of employees in BiH institutions and civil servants. For me, it is unacceptable, believe me, and insultingly, I am not now talking about employees, that civil servants and employees in BiH institutions have lower incomes than lower-level civil servants (entities, cantons, municipalities). Oh, that's it now. And twice as much pay. Also, it's our duty to make sure we're left with this frame. If the law isn't passed, there'll be a drastic drain of footage, and we know what it is. It's the most dangerous thing for this country. Indirect taxation has left 200 highly educated, 440 border police. Here's a colleague of Bakir. Lagumdžija was all against increasing the coefficient for all civil servants and for all employees, for the Border Police, for customs, all against. Now he's come here to spray demagogy. Well, he was on the Commission, and he didn't show up for the 22nd session of the Commission. He hasn't shown up in a year and a half, and now he shows up to be all against it. And now, another story. Also, I have to say that, I've already told the police, it's incomprehensible to me that in the Federation an officer with an act, that's what we all need to hear here, there's a receiving 908 KM plus night work, a warm meal, a regress, a right to travel expenses. There are 850 of them in RS, and here we have 820 with the latest. I don't think it's in favor of all of us and the budgets, because we know that they're borderline, we know that they're there and customs officers, and that it's just going to improve the gray economy, smuggling because, in the conversation with them and their unions, they claim that 4-5 billion marks and now they're going through the gray economy and that, if they're adequately rewarded, that they can't be under an entity cop, I have to at least take that level, that they can collect another billion to 2 billion dollars. I think it's a good investment for the state and also an argument that the payments in BiH institutions did not grow for 9-10 years. The cost of life has grown. I don't need anything. I can live, I've made sure, I've been a private and before the war, thank Bog, and after the war, and I'll always be and can live. But I won't, as my colleague Zorić says, that every noise attacks the state and the civil servants. Not everyone can be a State MP. Of all those critics of state MPs, here you go, gentlemen, the buyrum, on the list, so look how much you're worth. They're voters, citizens, they're, they're, one, they don't know how much they're worth, how much they're not worth. We're being attacked by every journalist, let them attack, but these journalists have 2,000 marks of pay, some have... high school. Some of them are eternal students in public TV services, they get 5,000 marks for tuition, they attack the most, and they have salaries as state minister and as an MP. Where's that? And all functions of this failed party system of the ancient past, the SDP. Here's an example of Border Police: 3.7 million marks, we all understand, is invested in equipment, in human education. Because of the small wages, all those who were dressed here left. This equipment now serves nothing, so it lies equipment of 3.7 million, and the effects of this equipment may be 100 - 200 million in function. It's all because of the pay law, people left, left, went to the entity police, someone went to the SIPA. And if I don't speak again, I think there are thousands of reasons for us MPs to say,...if it takes 100 marks, it doesn't matter, but because of these others, who are employed, of these 23,000... I think this law should and should stand by the wasteland and those of some of the agencies that have received up to 10-15 thousand marks. 89 That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18595	Thank you. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Kalabić, if true. Is it true? Okay. Electronicly registered. Dear Representative Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18596	Mr. President, colleagues and kelega, I've been reporting for the replica, but now, instead of the replica, I'm going to say what I thought of the replica, but mostly it doesn't matter. I have not seen parliamentarians demean themselves in anywhere in the world, and thus the state, as it is in this BiH. No one can understand me right now. I'm not gonna be a professional at this. If Bog gives me life, I will be in second, next, because whenever I am put on the list, I will enter Parliament, because until now I have been on 20 lists, I have passed every time. So, about that, then. But if you look at some amendments, it's below each, not demagogy, below each level. We want to build a state and have a state, and basic things theoretically, in this country, we don't know. Or we know, but for demagogue reasons, we keep them quiet. There is a kingdom, there is a monarchy with a parliamentary system and there is a democratic state in which the largest body is parliament. The largest body of parliament. And now, look at you, please, as some of the MPs' clubs classify that the MP should have a factor of 4.1. Well, that's a shame. It's a shame. They're talking about the cobwebs. I happened to be in a delegation yesterday in one of the Croatian Parliament and we talked as the same commission that is appropriate to this one here. And when we came to argue about the cobwebs, they asked, "What is it that he has given you?" So he says, these are the material expenses of the MPs that every MP should have. And that's true. I've never in my life, never in my life, no matter what party I've been in, I've never charged any stamps from that party when I'm going to a pre-election campaign or anywhere else. I always put it out of my pocket. I'll give you one more example. When they explained to us in the Croatian Parliament on the development of parliamentaryism in them: Parliament was originally created from prominent people, but only 2.5% of the people in Croatia could vote in favour of this parliament. And... he met twice a year. The rest of the executives did everything. If we are to develop a state like this, we will have a normal state, where Parliament will make decisions and laws and, if you will, control the work of everyone else. Therefore, there are only two options here: not to humiliate the state, and thus this parliament, and thus the state. That's, let's say, everyone has to be professionals and they have to get an adequate reward. Or another suggestion, I'm sorry I didn't... put it on, that I didn't act as an amendment. If I had known that people would be watching this Parliament this way, I would have sent the amendment and said that no one can be a professional in Parliament, and that, if we will, that means that we see and say, here, you are, it is an honor to be in Parliament. The largest body in the country, it's Parliament. No Parliament, no state. And that's clear to anyone who knows things at all. Only under war conditions can parliament transfer its powers to the president. In no other way can he, and he has to ask certain UN and EU questions if we are in Europe. 90 Therefore, such a body that has the highest authority, which should have a reputation, we bring it down to zero, comparing it to some brigade, comparing it to some... general, comparing it to someone there. Well, gentlemen dear, I've mastered, doctored, became a regular professor, but only with my best efforts. And I could never say, "I'll be an MP, here I am, because I will, until people vote for me!" And that's the most important thing. So people choose. Someone may think of me or of another or of a third of what they want, but those who chose us and gave us a mandate, they thought of us for the best. Well, when they thought of us all the best, why can we now think of ourselves all the worst? Well, it's humiliation, it's really humiliation. I'm saying again, I'm not professionalizing. There's no need. Whoever's not a professional here means there's more personal income than there would be in Parliament. There's none, it's 100%, wait, let's not talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18597	Please don't throw it away, let your colleague finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18598	... What's the matter? So let us give one dignity to this home. Well, I'm very sorry, I'm very sorry. I was one of those who voted for an independent BiH state, to call a referendum. He was Slavko, too. Sorry, Slavko, you were with me that night, but it doesn't matter. But if you have a picture anywhere, if you have a picture anywhere, do you have any indication, and I've been in Parliament for 15 years and I've been looking for...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18599	Please just a minute, please let us all behave together according to what we're saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18600	So, please, I suggest, if we can't find a solution today to bring it, but let's not humiliate Parliament, and... don't destroy with such proposals that are very... miserable and, in any case, lead to the humiliation of every Parliamentarian, regardless of which, whether he is in the capacity of... professional or not as a professional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18601	Replica: Honorable representative Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18602	I recognize myself, I seem to be the one who humiliated this Parliament, his colleagues, so what's left to me than to apologize to you, Professor, to everyone. I think the salaries that are over 3,000 marks, you know, when we compare them to the salaries of those who provide it to us, they're workers who have some average salaries of 700 marks, they're not bad at all. They can't believe we're a little 3 and we want 5 grand, you know. That miner who leaves all day in the dark to get 700 marks, that we should get seven times 700 marks. I, lest people believed in their eyes when they saw it. ... Well, if I made 91 such a mistake, I humiliated you, so here's a chance to fix it. Vote those 5 thousand marks, and then explain this... that you have defended the rise of this house, that it should have been done, that you should have gone to the cameras, in front of those miners, in front of those iron workers, etc. So explain that thing to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18603	Replication response: Honored Representative Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18604	Mr. Izetbegović, if it's 2,000 or 3,000 or 5,000, it doesn't matter to me at all. But it is – wait, wait, slow, please, I listened to you, you can listen to me now – but the problem is setting certain pay classes, there is a problem. You at 4.20 or 8, it doesn't matter, you can bring any salary you want. If the coefficient is 1, you can reduce everything else, so it's going to be the coefficient of that. Let's get the salary so we have 2,000 marks, but that's how we get others to pay less than 2,000. The whole point is that. So you didn't understand what I was going to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18605	Dear Representative Zorić: Replica. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You called in for a hearing?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18607	I wanted about...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18608	I'm just asking for a little attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18609	...to say the same thing the professor said about it, because that's not what it is, Mr. Izetbegović, that we tell the voters it's a little bit 3 we want 5, we want legality in this area. So we want those who had an uncontrollable 7 to no longer have. Let's tell them you did, and we didn't make this one, it's not the proposing House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, it's the Council of Ministers. So he made himself the first time in this area one system. And that's what this is about. Why do you keep talking only about the salaries of MPs? I was one of the MPs who wanted the MPs completely kicked out of this law. So, to... make it easier for some colleagues who are having political debates about this, but also for our voters and dissatisfied masses, even though I, to tell you the truth, have never met such ones, it seems only here in Sarajevo, I have never been asked anything about wages. No matter how hard some media and some political parties try to say that I call my voters one way or another, my voters know for the fifth or sixth time who they voted for and I have no problems at all 92... that kind of communication. But to make this legal, we all agree. But he can't, someone we choose can't have a 50% or 60% higher salary than the MPs, and that was just a proposal, Mr. Izetbegović, you and you signed such amendments. (?) That's not true. What do you mean, it's not? Ministers would have, ministers would have 50% higher salary than MPs, and we choose them, Minister. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18612	Replica: Honorable representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18613	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, I want to drop all charges on the account of the SDA Club and otherwise on the SDA which are going to portray the SDA as a political party acting demagogue on this issue and showing it as a political party which, by its amendment proposal, wants to actually undermine the reputation of BiH institutions. Our proposal is consistent. You talk about wages, you can talk about coefficients, you can talk about basics, in the end, it's all measured in an envelope or on a payroll when it's added up, and that's that. That's what Mr. Belkić was talking about... how much total receipts are, that's it, after all. According to the SDA proposal, a member of the BiH presidency should have 4,000 marks... salary, basic salary, no past work, no warm meal, no... The chairman of the Council of Ministers should have 3,500 marks, a proposal by the SDA and an MP, the minister should have 3,000 marks. So this is about 3,000 marks and the MP is at the level of the 3,000-mark minister. For the apostle, when his wages are gathered together by the coefficient and he has fallen, then it is the coefficient of the minister. Please nice, please just let me finish. I've been listening to 93 of you all day, and I want to say this what I think... about this issue. Paushal, he paused a category that exists in parliaments where there are no professional MPs. People who do their job in their jobs come to parliament and then have a shower. And so it was in all parliaments in BiH until 2001. By 2001, here in this House, it was paid, even the speaker of Parliament did not receive the salary. Until then, there was Mr Halid Genjac, and he was only on the cobwebs in Parliament. In 2001, so there were several people, the head of Parliament, perhaps one or two commission presidents who were professionalised. In 2001, a decision was made in the state parliament, so in 2001, in May, all MPs had the right to be professionals. Following that decision, the Federation Parliament, truth, I don't know how it was in parliament in the National Assembly of the RS, I suppose it was the same. And all of a sudden they become professionals, they're determined to pay, please nice, mostly everyone, so I apologize to those who aren't, mostly, so mostly everybody. And the pay is determined and the fee remains. Where there's a salary, there's no room for a cobwebs, but if there's already a cobweb and there's a bill in this bill and there's a flat-rate SDA, then it's fair to add those two together, and when we add that up, that means this head of state is 4,000, 500 marks less boss... Council of Ministers, 500 marks less than him, i.e. to 3,000 ministers and MPs. Both the minister and the MP in our parliament have been leveled according to the SDA proposal, and we believe that this is very consistent, and we believe that this is neither demagogy nor devastation of reputation, otherwise.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18614	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18615	That's the demagogy you're talking about, Zorić, and don't come into my word, I beg you. As I speak, please do not enter my word, do not enter my word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18616	Dear Representative Kalabić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18617	I didn't think there would be any need, but really after these steps. When the SDP came out, we thought we wouldn't have to prove to anyone else the demagogy but – it seems to me,... that Mr. Remzija Kadrić, that Remzija Kadrić was just a moment ago, calm down, Mr. Džaferović, is nervous, do you need a break? Easy, you're nervous! Now you can – so, Mr. Džaferović, you are silent that you have asked to exempt from this law the salaries of judges, prosecutors and others! And what did you do now? Now I ask you, "What is the minister's salary, neither do I, the judiciary, but how much is the judge's salary?" You see, I have before me judges' salaries, Mr. Džaferović, which are almost 90% bigger than what you say about state leadership, for, I don't know, who you think at least think we're playing the country and what we did. What do you think Mr. Izetbegović was saying that the miner doesn't mind that the judge of the Court of Justice has 3,000 marks, you know. What are we doing? If 94 we're talking, if we're telling that story, if we're telling that story, you want me to read it here, and I want to read it to you: 3,800, 4,000, 4400, 3,400, 3,800, here's the whole column to the lowest of 2,900, if we're talking. This is where we from SNSD talked about the system, about the system. And the anarchy, the one that was so far, which Mr. Džaferović spoke of, can stay, can stay. I just heard from Mr. Kadrić that there is a SDP lawyer when there is no SDP here in Parliament. And then we have a problem: are we going to systemically solve this? We said, gentlemen, to us from the SNSD, however you determine, it suits us. And if you want anarchy, it's not a problem, and if you want me to, I don't know what else. But if we're talking about the system, then you see a hole in your system. This hole is huge, which you can't explain why it is, if you compare yourself to countries, to countries, if you compare yourself to someone. Here's what we don't know best, let's compare. We'll line up with whatever you want, some average country, you'll get a illogical situation. Well, when it's illogical, then we should sit down and say what we're gonna do. If we don't have the law, here, Mr. Izetbegović, I ask you, how can a man in the same day end a working life, retire in the same day and start a working relationship in the same day. I'm asking you now. You ask, you support it, and you ask for it to remain, and let Mr. Kadrić stand up to you, let him explain to you why it is so and why you ask it to remain that way. And that's what you should tell the miner, if we tell the miners everything, and we'll tell them that too, don't tell that story. And that's here in this House with the votes of your MPs and you're now asking for it to remain. Here's Mr. Kadrić, I publicly invite him to explain what this is all about and say that the SDA's MPs voted in this case. Don't run away from it, say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18618	Dear Representative Marković: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18619	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've been looking for an incorrect quote, and the incorrect quote refers to exactly this MP's palate of which it was. And I want to say that since I took part in BiH's parliamentary life, I have been an MP since '98. until 2000, at the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in Banja Luka – I was not a professional MP, I had a flat, and all the professional MPs had a salary as MPs plus pausers. And don't, I'm not saying this right now for your sake, because you know it very well, but I am telling the public to put MPs in a position to defend themselves for what they are obliged to do, to work as MPs. And you know very well that each of these MPs is not obliged and obliged... – I, just to respond there when one of the voters asks me in Bijeljina, I am obliged to go to the territory of the entire constituency, it is about eight, nine... municipalities, and, so I, now from my salary I have to pay for the gas, because I don't have an official car, I don't have an official driver. When I go as a delegate to the Council of Europe to Strasbourg, journalists call me to make phone calls of 300-400 marks while I'm there. So I need it all from my personal income to pay, and if someone else is doing it, whether these judges are doing it, whether some inspectors are doing it or not. That's why I'm against those proposals that ask to be abolished by the MPs, because someone just... someone said what a parliamentary pause was. Well, 95 are material costs, because we as MPs don't have the right to search for any official vehicle or official cell phones in this House, so we have to cover that from somewhere. Well, I don't suppose that's how far you've come to ask that MPs pay for it from their own personal incomes and, with these personal incomes, these MPs support families and someone, someone depends on their personal incomes and wages. It's really not correct, and it's the management of whoever said here today, someone in the discussion, no one's heard from those to whom this law applies, only the MPs hit the MPs here. I know why! Because of some, behold, petty political interests and to tell the public and their voters, and believe that this way and this relationship... will not bring you much votes, because you are not asking for the elimination to be done and that lawlessness, anarchy, what Mr. Kalabić said, should be abolished, but only ask for some equality to be done and that justice should be achieved only in this home here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18620	Dear Representative Ajanović: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18621	I want to replicate the esteemed Džaferović, whom I really highly appreciate as a lawyer, but I also want to tell him that I have weak eyes, but with my glasses I see what it says here. And don't convince me of what's not true. It says here that the MP has a coefficient of 4.1, and... he says, the secretary, we move on, we move on like this, in... The Central Election Commission, it says, a member of the Board of Appeals has a 4.50 coefficient. And now he wants to convince me not to write it here. Well, that's, Mr. Džaferović, please, you're telling others, don't, don't interrupt me. So don't interrupt me either. If you wanted to make payment classes for the importance of these... functions that people perform, you'd say simply: MPs have 7.8 or 8, which professionals are cutting off their breaks, and there would be no pausal that's involved. But you want to demagogue to convince, or not, but before the elections to make you say so, here I am... I was that MPs don't have any pay. So don't, please, it's really beneath each level. And to discuss it, it's below each level.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18622	Why not? Dear Representative Izetbegović: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18623	So this is not the fifth, this is the second replica, let me tell you. Take those 5,000 marks, so don't be mad at us for... not doing it. Well, why don't you get mad at us for getting out of it... the car you got caught in, we don't think it's five, five and a half. If you think that's okay, here's 22 hands up, do it. Don't make us ugly and interpret it's a demagogue, so we're politicians, so it's for the sake of choice, so that's what you're getting into is that you're interpreting our motives. And we have the right to think what we think. I think 3,500 marks is enough, you know, for the work I'm doing here. If you think it's not enough, that it's an upheaval, that like this, if you choose 22 of you to take 5,500 marks, explain it nicely to the public and to the press, don't be angry with us. I have the right to think how I think and don't interpret my... thoughts. You know, not unfair, not 96 political, not like this, not like that. And the judiciary knows what we've separated. Because we want one coherent system apart from this. And we didn't determine the judges' wages, but the high representative, and it will... one day edit the others.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18624	Take it easy. ... You used your replica right for this agenda point. The next call came with a distinguished representative, Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18625	Mr. Chairman, if you'll excuse me, at the end of the line, I'll make one... suggestion. It's really very unprincipled that here this discussion goes into personal attitudes, in terms of me it's enough or not enough for me, take it and leave it. We represent an institution here, we are talking about the members of the institution and not just these but all other BiH institutions. We should not go from ourselves to a political opponent in these discussions. I would also respond to these proposals and discussions concerning the relationship between the reception of MPs and ministers. Here, I was both, the first MP, then the minister, then the MP again. I think receiving the minister should be bigger. But they're bigger with this now, they weren't before, now they're bigger with this. Because receiving plus the ministers' salary is bigger than paying plus paying the MPs. You can measure that very easily. I would like to see someone suggest that all ministers have, all MPs have the right to an unlimited number of impulses on their mobile phone, as all ministers have, and not only ministers, if they have the right to car, here they do not have the right to drivers – I will vote for this so that they do not have legislators. This isn't acceptable either, but let's get past this relationship I need, you don't need it, and I prove myself to voters and don't prove it. My proposal would be to you in the College to ask for agreement to end this debate at this point, that perhaps the minister would help you in this regard. That he would request a meeting of all the amendment promoters, possibly the president of the clubs, to hold the meeting in some cabinet, to try to agree and see if this can be done within an hour, and then to come to a session without comment and to see whether or not it goes further on this matter, all with the goal of getting to this meeting today. The mechanism of economic and social situation in the country can also be agreed on. A document can be brought with which it is better than before this unsettled state that really existed, which really existed, which was not pointed at it. I'm afraid that one good intention will not be completely politicized, even by those who have well-intentioned at the very beginning, but were then taught to others, as a rule, by our irrational interests. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18626	Replica: Dear Representative Ajanović. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18627	I would beg the MPs, and first of all Izetbegović not to replace my thesis as I have said. I didn't say at all, nor do I take from the congregation. First, to tell you the truth, I'm taking out an 850-mark breaker from this assembly and I don't know if they're counting on that other session attendance so it turns out to me, somewhere around 900 marks. And that's, that's a cobweb, so material costs. I don't take, I don't have 3,000 marks from this assembly, so I don't need to take 5,000. But I'm saying the MP can't be in the pay grade any smaller than the usual clerk on any commission you want. And the way it was was if it was that... there was no pay, the way it was possible to make it... the coefficient... the one that should be, and to remove the flat. And then you wouldn't, then it wouldn't be a demagogy.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18628	Thank you. Replica: Honorable representative Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18629	... to replicate today to all those who have tried to explain in this discussion that if there is a pay for MPs less will be better for the citizens of BiH. I don't think that's gonna happen. I have now calculated quickly: if the representatives, the envoys, paid 10,000 marks a year, receiving these representatives was only two hours of foreign trade deficit. So, this country in the foreign trade deficit, which is the BiH citizens' money, loses in two hours, so the salary of all MPs, envoys, which could be 10,000 marks. And we've been discussing this law for nearly three hours, so the annual salary of 10,000 marks we lost within that period. For that reason, I think we should go in the other direction, that means it's not the pay, but the object to see how we can change what needs to be changed, so that our citizens have a better salary, and that's not safe to leave small and representative, so here's some justice, let no one have it, and we've solved the problem. I think it's going in the wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18630	Thank you. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Erić, who is currently missing, after which the second deputy chairman, Dr Milorad Živković, applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18631	These dozen replicas practically took away some of the debate I wanted to have here and I'm sorry that there are no colleagues from the SDP who obviously, when... should be talked about, are not there. Especially since there's no cameras, so they're probably not there. And it's clear that 98 of this many-week-old farce, which came from them, but unfortunately,...and from some of the other members here, ended up with their complete fiasco. Those banners Mr. Belkić said, and I also read one in the Cyrillic letter "Banja Luka", they do not know how to write a letter "it". Anyway, we won't talk about it anymore, but it's clear to everyone that this law is necessary. This is what we are here in parliament, and someone has already said this, and I will just point out that at the 7th session, Mr Halid Genjac suggested that: The House of Representatives requires the Council of Ministers of BiH to prepare and, at the latest, 45 days later in the parliamentary procedure to deliver the Bill of Salaries in the BiH institutions for which all and the gentleman concerned had voted, after which, the chair of the Club and the gentlemen concerned proposed at the 13th session, extremely dissatisfaction with the fact that this Council of Ministers did not... deliver within a certain period of pay, the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representative, which expressed dissatisfaction with the great delay of the adoption of the Law on Payments in BiH institutions where they unanimously supported it, and all of us others. So, this story about the law needed is clear to all, and that demagogy no longer passes to anyone, because it attacks on the common minds of our citizens in BiH, and that is the greatest underestimation of those same citizens who will surely return as boomerang to those who do so. For this law to be corrected, we have also seen with amendments, however, I would like to say that in some proposals from some parties these are unrealistic proposals, unreal coefficients, those concerning the very essence and principles of the law. Then it was good and fair that it stopped at the first reading and said that these principles were absolutely unacceptable because, what Mr Ajanović was saying, I certainly agree with him, that according to these proposals, the Presidency was reduced only by about 20%, MPs by over 50%, that we were placed in the same classes with here not to go to insinuation from which the parties were presidents of the Board of Appeals or the Central Election Commission, etc. etc. It is the humiliation of this parliament and the desire that in this parliament, those who commit to the elections to work here, are discouraged to come as good positive people, better than me and others to work here. I also said it on my first reading, and I resented my fellow non-combatants, so it would be fair and good to do the kind of situation where the best in this country will sit here. I stood for a linear approach: if the wages are big, they're big for everyone. From first to third grade, reduce by 5% or as much as is thought to be reduced. I am also in favour of a request that, I don't know, which the Council of Ministers will have to explain to us, Mr. Novaković said - Is it possible that according to the coefficients that are here after that to the Council of Ministers that each year when the budget is adopted they determine what is the price of work, according to socio-economic conditions constantly in the country, etc. etc. It's only fair that they say what they need, but from first to last, to be paid. When it comes to the judiciary, we supported the request, or the Council of Ministers' proposal to keep the judiciary in this group. We don't think it's about what the pay is anymore, now it's about who controls what's in this country. And in other countries, it's settled with wages, and in this country it needs to be settled with salaries in the system, not outside the system. I respect Mr. Džaferović's position, I do not know if Mr. Genjac did so, when the president, or the chairman of their party, raised the salaries by decision at the end of the term. That the difference in funds was being paid into humanitarian action. I call on them now, in case this is like a law passed here, to do the same, but all those who feel that no one here should have those wages, to treat the proposal in such a way as they did honestly and morally according to the proposal made by their chairman of the Council of Ministers. And we will call every month on how these moral, moral, and honest decisions are being carried out here in this House. How do you get out of this situation? Mr. Dokić said. I think it would be good to have a meeting of the enlarged College, that the amendment's proposings try to find a consensus and see if this law... can get a majority in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18632	I thank you. Dear Representative Erić has arrived. Do you want to discuss it? He does. Dear Representative Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18633	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I'm just going to tell you that we've been on the committee considering 75 amendments, and three more, 77 here's total. The point is: before that, we had a lot of union letters and all the other meanings that are concerned and who are thinking about leaving institutions that don't pay them adequately and looking elsewhere. And what Mr. Živković said, so the simplest question is, here I am as an opposition and we have our own opinions. So we're criticizing the pay. Politically, it's the easiest thing to go to the MPs, and that's what it's all about, but here we ask the question: What do we do with these others and what will be our professional structure in a few years? That's the question, and the second question is, why were we the last to wait around this bill? Entities did it, so everything that was bad is now being applied to our home. And for that reason, those who haven't read and those who have left, so they need to read what these unions are looking for, what the rules are, and here they really need to pass the law like all of this so far what we've done, but the fact that there are some gaps, but the law is necessary, and it needs to be moved in one piece and forgotten the advocacy, is up to two more years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18634	Here, the chairman wants to discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18635	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, here I am going to try several impressions, since there are no more reports, but in order to help us come to a solution... after... and this point, and the next points of the agenda. Yesterday, on this morning's rotation of the presidency, we had a press conference, and I told the press then, so I'm going to repeat it in front of all of you here. I really think it is a great honor to be a representative in my country's parliament, to be in this 100-thousandth parliament is an even greater honor, to be in the leadership of this parliament, then it is a very great honor. There are few institutions in this country along with the BiH-level Presidency that are elected in the direct elections, only the Presidency and this one here Parliament. All citizens of this country have the right to run for both this parliament and the Presidency and for all other levels of government. Some people use it, some people don't use it. Fortunately, since the BiH Constitution states that BiH is a democratic state and that it involves multi-party free elections, we have dozens of political parties in each election and thousands of competing citizens, my assessment and assessment of independent observers in a fair and correct match, in order to come into some of the country's parliaments and many, especially with a desire, probably as I do to enter my country's parliament into the most legislative body in this country. And what's extra with the right people expect a lot from us. That honor is not only an honor, it is also a great responsibility. We like to say a lot of things declaratively, I said yesterday what I expect in the next eight months, aware that it's not just up to me, aware that it depends on all of us. That this depends on the members of the Council of Ministers, that this depends on the members of the Bureau, that this depends on many of the other institutions in this country that exist and should work to meet what we declare: to work towards meeting what we truly expect our citizens to do. I also said yesterday that I believe that not one of our citizens in BiH matters at all what the salary of a member of the presidency or of a minister is, on purpose, not to mention MPs. It doesn't matter to him at all. People care what their salaries are, people care if they have jobs, people care if they have health insurance quality, people care if they have visas or no visas, whether they can travel or can't travel, people care if they can work. All that matters to people, and we've made a commitment to ensure these people. What today in one part of the session disappointed me when I had to... speak ironically. ... Thank you for your support. ... I had to, because we've been arguing for three hours, I'm going to say almost nothing until we've established the agenda. What impressed me at this same session is the debate on several very important laws for this country and for all its citizens. I was impressed by the level of debate, the seriousness of the debate, there were no inappropriate tones, there were no incursions, there was no labelling, there was nothing that was not appropriate to this parliament. And again we came to this point of the agenda where we went back to the beginning, there were really serious discussions, but there was also a lot that one such institution didn't like. So, I would like, first of all, to have us here by our work, by our conduct at every session and at every opportunity show that we are worthy of being representatives of this highest legislative body. Respecting all our differences because, if there were no difference, there would be no need for democracy, there would be no need for so many political parties and so many choices. So, normally there are differences, but these differences can be shown in many ways. Apparently, what someone would say about business is not in line with the agenda point, it is in line with the agenda point. A debate about a very important law in this country that I don't know for what reasons, but probably for similar reasons hasn't been passed. The debate on the law that first tried to be regulated in post-Dayton BiH, a very sensitive area, all of us here, that we don't mind anyone in particular, we obviously, here by our age, significant years of work experience and life experience. And we were all on different occasions when the different names of the regulations were discussed that were arranged for some kind of pay. It was always 101 sensitive, there were always those who were privileged and who defended those privileges with all possible means. There were always those who were not satisfied with the existing situation and who were always trying to reach a better position. We today have a situation in which it is obvious, now I can say it after the end of all these processes and today's debate, knowingly all the debate on the law that defines salaries for more than 20,000 employees in BiH institutions reduced to 57 MPs and envoys. I ask the question: why? I didn't do the calculations, but I believe what they told me, the total amount of these salaries is about 1% in comparison to all these salaries. And then there's the question of rationality. I mean, what makes it rational for so much power and energy to be spent at 1%? We've heard different comparisons of what that means compared to something else. Why did someone place such a subject? Why wouldn't, which would make sense to me, if already wanted in principle, attack the salaries of members of the presidency? Why wasn't such a campaign against the ministers' salaries? Why such a campaign was not against the salaries of different agencies, etc. officials in agencies, officials, etc.? For one reason only: because only here in Parliament is the law being decided. And it's obvious that there are strong lobbies that want to preserve acquired positions at all costs, there are those who defend acquired positions. They've found a way, we need to attack the MPs, we need to be put in a position to defend ourselves, to justify and accuse each other. I don't want to get into that story. I don't want to comment at all... on what the amendments are to anyone, because I think it's the legitimate right of each of us here. And I think that's how we were supposed to look for a way to get to the law. Respecting the fact that my proposal always doesn't have to be accepted or anyone else's, but to come to a law that, however, in a much better way than it is now, when we still don't have the law, will arrange this very sensitive area, the area in which the most important part of the BiH institutions budget is spent. If we want it to continue to be, however, a more anarchy-like state, we will be against the law. I am not saying... what kind of law will ultimately be, there are a lot of constructive proposals that I have heard today and which, through amendments and because of that..., I will also suggest to my colleagues in the College that after the end of the debate on all points of the agenda, before the plea, we organise this meeting at which we will try to reach a harmonised solution, which we will present here to you all and try to reach the law, without prejudicing any of the solutions offered. But I'm really asking you to make the most of the effort, to get to the law and legally edit this very sensitive area. Thank you very much. I don't have any more charges to argue with. He has a respected representative, Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18636	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it would be my turn if I hadn't come forward, and when everyone said everything, then I would like to say in a brief address what was happening in this parliamentary procedure in passing this law, which is not said here today. It has been said that the law is very necessary to regulate an area where there is a big mess and I don't think anyone can deny such a single need, and there's absolutely everyone who wants good BiH I don't think they have to step down from their position. The question of whether a good text of the law was offered is a question that was constantly being asked. My position, and I have very much engaged 102 in this procedure, is that a good text of legislation that can be brought to the real law by amendments can be the happiest and best for BiH, but one that will respond to a real situation in BiH. I'm going to talk maybe unusually open, so don't blame me on who's replicating, I won't replicate to him. Those who spoke if they had the greatest support of the Serb people in RS have all said openly, sincerely, and they can explain their position to their electoral body. They don't have any reserves, they're going to get support and positive points for what they've said here today. Those who addressed the majority there to the Croatian electoral body have also sincerely expressed their views and will not have to address their electoral body further, I think they will get positive points for their views. Those of the Federation, who spoke to the majority Bosniak electoral body, will have to further explain the views expressed here today. And it's a real situation, which is why it would be good for you to understand us. So it's not enough here to be smart, it's here to be realistic. If BiH had made progress in its economic development as it should, it could have been even if it could, then four or six here are the ministerial salaries of those averages would have been quite enough. Now I'm talking a little bit about math. So, these six average salaries in BiH, if it had developed economically as it should have, would have been quite enough and would have been all right. Is it possible, then, in a country like this to settle the ministerial salary in one step? Those who think it's a small ministerial salary, and now they're right and with this proposal, but it can't be that we can determine it in one step and reach the desired salary, without considering that we haven't developed the country. I'm convinced when she further develops, as the average salary grows, that your relationships will be reduced, no matter what law is passed here. Because it won't be possible for some normal average salary in the country and ten times that to be greater than anyone else's. It's not possible, it's... it's just math he can't stand. We therefore thought that we would suggest that you accept the reality that it is not easy for one people in Bosnia to explain that ministers, MPs, members of the presidency, agencies suddenly resolve their status, and that all other groups should wait for BiH to develop. Don't be ashamed of us to explain it, it's as simple a reality as we do that you who explain it to the Croatian and Serbian people have the right to do so... claim and no one, and here I say, respects you. So we have this responsibility to calm the people down and finally say, whatever they pay us, we think the Pay Law is necessary. This attitude around the MPs has been coerced, we are greatly injured by what has been done to the honourable Members. I think everyone here is honored, I see by presence here and there from session to session, so we're just dirty. We want to come here with our heads up, we've always gone head up and now somebody wants us to be ashamed of something in the '50s because of a few salaries we're about to receive here. We don't need any pay for such shame and such shame... So I am a mining child and a miner, so I am the one who knows what a farmer is, and I am going between that people and today with the light of my cheek, no matter how much my wages are set. I've never taken part in this life in determining my salary, this is the first time, and I wouldn't want to spend it all there on me or these people here and sell their reputation for that one salary. Have, therefore, understanding of our position. So, I'm very sorry that our proposal to have a public hearing has not been accepted, here's the commission here. So, we proposed a public debate, we even thought that the public should give their judgment in this room. So we accepted that it was just a public 103 debate within the institutions. Believe me, we've had such a public debate that some questions and some answers here agree. The last time we suggested what Mr. Živković suggested here, therefore, that the heads of the parties' clubs or, I don't know, this one, this someone... the leadership of a political attempt to agree some approach and find a happy solution behind this. I'm not mad at anyone. So, everyone's going through it their way, it would be very uncomfortable if we could just shut up when we're called demagogues, politicians. So that's not it, believe that's not it. It can't be that suddenly we're politicians, and we've never been politicians before. So, we're cardiac fighters, we want to get our heads up, only to admit that our status and the status of these higher categories cannot be reached in one... step. I mean, since I think there's always a way out of this situation and it's always the only way out of this conversation, I think this conclusion is good, but I don't think we can take a break from voting on such a complex spectrum of proposals that you'll be able to figure out what to do there. Does... that Rules of Procedure... allow, I'm not exactly up to the point. If you're going to talk and negotiate, leave a vote for someone, for that next session there. So, so much quiet, so the questions you've raised here, everyone rightly from their point of view, and then you should have one good math that would find all those solutions within which you naturally need this Council of Ministers specifically to... to... to your... your contribution. And I have to say this eventually. So, I think it's good to get the judiciary out of this law, we think, not because it's just or most fortunate but temporarily there that the pressure of the judiciary and the prosecution is denied by this law. It was our idea and supported by the commission. Here, now, I think she's unanimously supported. And there was an idea, which Mr. Novaković said, that, as in most regulated countries, governments or something that corresponds to the government, the Council of Ministers annually prepares for the draft budget, with guidelines for budgeting, the basis for next year, respecting therefore the existing state of affairs but also inflation, economic development, growth, impact, collecting income, while curbing the grey economy. It is, therefore, a difficult way to master this sector but requires responsibility, year by year, and allows for faster wage growth and somewhat slower when it, objectively, cannot come. If we talk about it, then, however this ends today, we should keep working on it. And if the law is passed, it should continue to work on it, and if it is not passed, it should continue to work on it. It would not be good if, in the view of this law, which is not the police in the Constitution, so it is crucially important, it would not be good for any one to be given conclusions on the conduct of the debate on this law to submit amendments. I'm convinced, so I followed, I read, I could read more than half of the amendments from letter to letter again, everyone had a good intention of getting to one good and orderly law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18637	Can I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18638	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18639	Replica: Chairman. Are these all replicas? 104
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18640	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and highly respected colleague Jašarević, I truly greatly appreciate this way of working in this House. I'm telling you this from the heart, but I have a need, and maybe it's not a good address to react to, to say something, even though you asked me to say it. I appreciate what you said,...I'll say for what reason. And I'm a mining child, and I have to tell you. These days, staying in his mining Kaknje, very often moving and meeting the miners and, believe me, there are more Bošnjak in these miners today than Hrvat, none of them asked me what my salary was, or whether it would be increased, or whether it would be reduced. But I was asked what I did to some of your colleagues at the club and presented, which you're changing the director of the mine that assured us that the mine was working well. What are you experimenting on, putting us in a position to be miserable again tomorrow? That's what they asked me. Believe me,... I speak frankly, and to some colleagues... I have already presented it here in Parliament and asked, passing on the voice of these people, to try to appreciate... such a view of these people. Thank you very much. Replica: Honorable representative Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18641	Oh, really, just for a little while. I must admit that I was surprised by the really... discussion, the debate, the approach that Mr. Jašarević made when it came to his evaluations, evaluations, generalisation... that the Serbian people had nothing against this law, how..., as far as I understood it, even the Croatian people, should only further explain this law to the Bošnjak. Indeed, I think that, that... on such findings is very difficult now... to further clarify. And it is – I must, Bajazit, really appreciate you as an MP –... that, I estimate it as a special, additional, special demagogue, which is really hard to explain here, therefore. This one just before I was saying, maybe me... Bakir didn't get it right. I was going to say, I thought at first it was about a little demagogy, like... Lagumdžija and Izetbegović, but later I understood that it was two major demagogy. And what Bajazit was saying was something special, general, special demagogy. /Shortly Interrupted Recording/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18642	I'm begging you, I'm asking for your attention. Please, you didn't get the word, you didn't get the word. So you didn't get the word. When you get it, then you'll be able to talk, unless you've already spent your lines. Previously on Replica, did the distinguished representative Lijanović come forward, and then the distinguished representative Jovičić also came forward for the replica. He's right, he's right, he's right, he's right. 105 [[Common discussion]] May I have your attention, please? Dear Representative Lijanović: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18644	In the People's Party working for the better, I can.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18645	Please, colleagues and colleagues, let's try... passion and let's hear it from a colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18646	In the People's Party, working for the improvement of both Hrvat and Bošnjak and Srbin, the problem is to explain to the majority Bosniak people why 2.5 billion marks were donated to Serbia and Croatia last year through the external trade deficit and those with these 2.5 billion marks finance their pensioners, their health care, their parliamentarians, develop their agriculture, and we all fail. And I think that explanations should go that way and solve these problems, not explain the wages that shouldn't be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18647	We're done with the replicas. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. I've been informed that you've spent your lines. [[Common discussion]] Dear colleague Jovičić, I especially appreciate you and I trust you, but I can't help trusting your colleagues from the club that you haven't spent and don't be angry, don't be mad at me. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18649	We really came in here together, but they understood that I voted for independence, and I didn't, so they're accusing me. (LAUGHS/ 106) We have to make that clear, it's really gone. I can't live like this. Am I correct, Chairman? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18651	I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. I must say that we have received a request from the representatives of the United Union Coordination Committee, registered at the level of BiH institutions, that Mr. Neđo Đurić address this home and, here we are – Đurđić, I apologize – we in the College have made it clear that we allow the respected Mr. Đurđić to address in time as is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, up to 10 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Đurđić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18652	Dear Presidency, distinguished representatives, ladies and gentlemen, I am Neđo Đurđić, representative of the Union Co-ordination Committee, registered at the level of BiH institutions. It is a special honor and pleasure to welcome you on my behalf and on behalf of the overall union membership of all BiH institutions and to thank you for giving me the opportunity to address you on behalf of the Co-ordination Committee of the United Union institutions of BiH. The united unions form union organisations and members of the 60 institutions registered at BiH level and have been organised through three independent trade unions that they make, because of the time I don't read, I think you're familiar. The importance of today's moment obliges me to... thank you once again for allowing us, today's action, because today it has been a special honor for me and my colleagues, and I hope that this honor will be shared with you, all of you, when I tell you that this is the first public and official union appearance in the concrete action of the BiH institutions, where the union expresses the mood, attitudes and demands of employees, always on the most important and powerful subject, both for employees and employers, and these are salaries. With today's day, the continuation of the historic continuity of the union's activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina's state administration, which has been interrupted by unfavorable events in these premises today, with a 17-year-old break, continues to operate in BiH institutions. Therefore, this is a kind of solemn moment for the union in the chronology of reenactment unions, and I hope for BiH institutions as well. As of today, the BiH institution union is constant, it is an integral part of the body of BiH institutions, is well organised and will have to have the means to protect employees' rights. On the current subject today's draft wage law, the union presents its opinion in front of this respected home and its position on...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18653	I warn my colleagues not to leave the hall because we're losing the quorum. 107
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18654	The bill's proposal, apart from causing general reactions and condemnation to the public, has also created general dissatisfaction with BiH institutions and the non-acceptation of this law by the union. This union cannot accept, primarily the union this law cannot accept...because its partial solutions to the distribution of...pays for part of the BiH institutions. It is unfair, inhumane and... also at the same time retrograde for the BiH state, and unusable for the promoter, can be freely said, in certain parts, both immoral and compromising. Evidence for such quality assessments of the proposed... law solutions, are transparently visible in these solutions. The unfair... distribution of salaries is transparently visible from the ratio of salaries to employees in BiH institutions and salaries in the same those jobs of entity employees. For example. State officials, according to the total number of jobs, salaries are higher in entities in 78.5% of cases. Or over 14 jobs per systematization, they're up to 11 jobs. It's about the same names of jobs in entities and at the level of the state. At an absolute amount in salaries,... to the damage of employees in BiH institutions are, for example, The head of accounting in BiH institutions has 426 marks lower than the head of the RS entity. The institution's professional adviser has 470 marks of lower salary than RS advisers or 148 marks of lower salary compared to BiH advisers. In the case of employees, the independent referent has 44 marks of lower salary in institutions than the referent, or 60, 44 marks less pay than the BiH reference or 60 marks less than the RS reference. I have a table of all relationships, because of the time I don't read it. If anyone asks, I can get all the data out. As far as police are concerned, the relationship at the level of employees' salaries in the BiH state-level police and entity-levels is: in BiH institutions, salaries are on all jobs, meaning 100% of the jobs are lower than the same jobs in the Federation of BiH. Differences affecting police officers in BiH institutions range from 706 marks to 71 marks. The example works, and here I have a complete table, for example, I'm going to make two cases. A sergeant in institutions, a BiH police sergeant has 473 marks of lower salary than a Federation sergeant or 35 marks of lower salary than a sergeant in RS. The chief inspector has 490 marks lower than the head inspector in BiH or 213 marks lower salary than the RS chief inspector. The fact that a large number of employees, according to the union's estimates, about 6,000, are not available to the union, according to this law, will have fewer salaries than they have now, as well as the fact that state and police officers, subsistences under this law, will retire with the same coefficient and the same pay grade that an employee has just started to work, point to a highly highlighted inhumane component of this law and... are evidence of the social injustices and lack of the moral awareness of the employer according to this section of employees. This category of employees is a particular issue of attention in the protection of employees' rights, as this law brings them into an extremely difficult social situation. Employees' salaries haven't been increased in the last 10 years. In that period, the cost of life increased by 79.2%. The consumer basket for March 2008 is 1,784,59 marks. This category of employees according to the salaries provided by the bill will earn only 36% of the required minimum cost to survive the four-member family. The source of information is the State Statistics Agency. The information was collected under the Eurostat system and contained in the Agency's 3/2008 statement. in 2008. 108 These facts show and prove that this law definitely justifys an unfair economic inequality in the layers of state administration, and this is to the detriment of that layer of state administration of which the BiH state depends most on its path to EU accession. The union requires only equality compared to lower levels of government in BiH and nothing more. Dissatisfaction over wage distribution will result in the outflow of BiH's most prospective and most professional staff, which will weaken already unsatisfactory existing efficiency of institutions in the country and question the success of the overall concept of reforms in BiH and EU accession. This will create a further retrograde chain fact on the overall system, by undermining the outflow of expert staff the state institutions and making it impossible for society as a whole to make successful economic progress, which will negatively affect citizens' living standards, and will inevitably open many other issues and policies, with a further harmful fact of progressive developments in BiH. All these facts are inevitable because they arise as a consequence of the facts of the generally recognised economic legality and interest of capital and labour market, whose creation, in the case of the application of this law, no one can prevent it. The United Union of all BiH institutions, led by the Co-ordination Board as a representative of the interests of union members and other employees in BiH institutions, has publicly and timely announced its position to the employer as well as to all relevant holders of the legislative executive authority in BiH that such a law cannot be accepted and that if this law is passed, contrary to the will of the employees, it will strike. The union regrets that all union proposals have been rejected to improve this law and that there has been a rejection of all union requirements to resolve this issue through union negotiations – the employer, and once again proposes that the law be withdrawn and that the harmonisation be carried out through bipartite dialogue by the employer – the union, as a method of resolving this issue. I thank you for your address.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18655	Thank you. We have concluded the debate on the previous agenda point. We heard Mr. Đurđić's address. And we move to the 10th point of the established agenda: Ad. Ten. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties (first reading) The draft law was delivered by the Council of Ministers 24. – this is a mistake – the bill was submitted on 24 April. The opinion of the Constitutional Legislative Commission on Constitutional Base 109 was forwarded to you on 12 May. The opinion of the Financial and Budget Committee responsible has been delivered to you on 9 May. The commission has supported the principle of the bill. We're considering this law in our first reading. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. Dear Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18657	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I think the group has made an effort to make a lot of changes that are very useful. I think Article 4 restricting the citizens of this country and legal entities to be able to grant donations to certain political entities, I don't think it should be limited, because if someone wants to and if they do so in a transparent way and if they are familiar with the whole public, I think that should be made possible. I will support this law in first reading, and by amendment I will try to fix this thing that I think will be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18658	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. Is there? Dear Representative Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18659	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This Law on the financing of political parties, in short, could be said something like that..
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18660	Just a little more attention, we'll work faster. JOSO
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18661	Like when we talked about the Law of Conflict of Interest. So, and here is a step forward but, in order not to take up your time, I would like to point only to some possible improvements in this law. For example, in Article 3 when it comes to sources of political party financing, we would suggest that in addition to those sources a single item will appear with the title: Projects that improve parliamentary democracy and even democratisation of the Bosnian Herzegovina society. So, in addition to all these revenues, the sources of revenue, to allow for the funding of certain projects that political parties are carrying out under certain programmes which, I say, contribute to improving democratisation. Furthermore, we think it would be good if income from assets and companies owned by political parties were not limited to this low, to 20%. We would like... that amount to be 30%, explaining it in a way that through the activities of so 110 companies that can, as it stands here, be a publishing character, so that the censorship increases to 30%. We welcome the change in these donation revenues, from 8 to 15 average salaries. And mostly, with these tiny adjustments, we could support a law like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18662	Thank you. The word has one of the proposings and the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, the distinguished representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18663	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I will only say two sentences, the name of the Interresor Working Group who actually did this and gave us to sign it, is it, as MPs. So this is the third law you've assigned us to write it. And here he is in the paraliamentary procedure. And this law goes the same as the last two, because it was our general course, so to make a few steps for these elections. And of course, this is living matter, it will be constantly monitored. Everything we talked about today and what I could hear was actually about an estimate that was better, which is a census better. What's better, it's up to us to weigh! There is a commission now, and I am pleased that the Constitutional Commission is not the committee responsible for this, but the second, the Finance and Budget Commission, so let other people, on the basis of the amendment, make an assessment, let it come here to Parliament, and we will talk about it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18664	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We move to the 11th point of the established agenda: Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Domestic Production within the CEFTA Agreement – Proposer: Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović (first reading) On 23 April this year, the Honorable Representative Lijanović submitted the draft law to the procedure for a preliminary review. At the 28th session, the request for a procedure was examined, and the applicant gave up the rush procedure and requested consideration under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. The House adopted a request for a shortened procedure, and on 12 May you were given an opinion on the constitutional basis. On 7 May, the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs submitted its opinion on the principles of this law. The commission supported the principle. 111 I'm opening a debate in my first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18667	I thank you, Chairman. I thought before I would make the introduction of the proposal and in the preparation of this law I have consulted some data, first of all, data from the Central Bank Report on the balance of our BiH import, export, condition, which are goods, meaning, given the source of the data that it is the Agency for.... BiH, so the official data is, and indeed there we can see that certain things are happening that BiH institutions need to respond to. They need some action on these data, given that the consultations and findings in these reports are contradictory, and what we want and what is happening on the ground and those stories we heard from the minister when we adopted this necessary agreement for BiH. Here, let me just tell you one detail from the Central Bank Report that we unanimously adopted, when it says... that the positive expectations regarding further deterioration of the balance of payments and in the coming years are certainly to strengthen it, by applying the CEF Agreement. At the same time, through certain data, we see from 2004 to today that the import of food processing is increasing from 1,090,000,000 to 1,269,000,000. We also got here in these materials, the Association of Farmers in BiH, I would like, here we all are to pay attention to what we have today through this debate and this month in front of us, behind us who are the ways in which we approach Parliament, attempts to lobby for certain things, by gold shovels, and here today, to see this document that we have received, says, we will be forced to inform our members and the general public that all political parties and representatives are personally destroying domestic production, and continue with the protests as recorded, etc. You really, right now, come with the responsibility you have and the desire to do something and the dilemmas you have and everything you don't have as an MP that you can do your part of the work. What could we hear today about these things? Yes, again, one of the blackmails is coming, that I Nanić say as Husein as I want to say, knowingly, say I will, or I'll get a flyer or a painting or I don't know what, by someone, either that or the Association of Farmers in BiH! I would ask those who use this to pay attention to it, not to try in these ways to influence the MPs, to let us go, that we can consciously make decisions and that we can discuss all issues in quality. And the issue, from this law, which treats this law, is indeed a complex issue and requires action from all institutions in BiH. Accordingly, the SDA Club has proposed certain... conclusions, and I hope they will get support in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18668	... MP Lijanović. Let Novaković prepare himself. 112
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18669	Dear President, colleagues, fellow representatives, distinguished guests, I want to clarify some things, I want to give a little analysis of the longer context of settlement in agricultural production in order to understand the need for urgent action. So, what I want to clarify is that import lobbies in BiH that are troubled by domestic production, because it reduces imports, all forces are trying to stop any measures that would create conditions for production in BiH and, in some ways, the proposals and which I am giving in Parliament are trying to present in the light that I am doing so because of the interest of the company "Lijanović“ in which I am co-owner, which is not true. The company "Lianovici" in BiH, with its brand, covers 30% of the market, and this is a long period of time, and above that percentage is neither desirable nor economically justified. The company "Lianovici" also operates with CEFTA member states and around 50% of its brand exports to CEFTA members and the company "Lijanović“ needed CEFTA in order to enable export performance and quality to take place on export markets because it has grown the domestic market several years ago. The adoption of CEFTA has created assumptions that, in fact, large... companies, large producers, such as "Lijanović", have export markets. The adoption of CEFTA created opportunities for the cumulated origin of raw materials, which means that raw materials no longer have to be purchased on the BiH market, but from any CEFTA member, and this is indeed great for the large producers that can benefit from the agreement. Only I think it's not good, because in BiH, we such large producers can read the rings because they are gone and it would not be good for everyone else to be destroyed in the next period without only four or five producers left. I think it's important that, and you all know there will still be pressure in that direction to discredit the proposals. It is also trying to equate foreign trade policy with industrial and agricultural products. And through the same policy, agriculture will be destroyed, and industry will benefit. So, the agreement itself has completely separated these two branches, because we need to open maximum limits for industrial products, attract foreign large companies to invest in BiH and create jobs for us because objectively there is no potential in BiH for these investments to start. But also, if we apply the same policy to agriculture, we will make the biggest mistake, because it is not realistic to expect foreign investments to come to the agricultural sector, to have someone come to our hills, to open a farm, to raise vineyards, orchards or something like that. So that's where we can't count on foreign investment, that's where we can count on domestic resources, the ones we have, to try to put them into function. So we have to look at, completely, separate industry and agriculture. To free the borders of industry means to release the free market and seek foreign investment, and to protect agriculture and encourage and use domestic resources, to use domestic people and the nature that Bog has given us. I would like to point out, when foreign trade policy started at BiH level in the area and agricultural products, it started in '98. a year, about 10 years from today. From those 10 years, I think we need to learn how it was done and what effects we have so as not to repeat the same mistakes for the next 10 years. In the last 10 years, actually somewhere in '97. Or '98. A customs tariff has been adopted that should have reached quality safeguards but unfortunately, due to the inability of a political agreement to make a customs tariff 113, as needed by our production, only the RS plus the Federation formula shared through two, and we have adopted such a customs tariff that did not reflect the needs of our economy and especially agriculture. Then, as a repair of such bad tariff tariffs, decisions were made on a special taxi or levies as used in public, and in these decisions there was a member who had committed that the money was collected from these levies to separate into a special account in the entity finance ministry and that these funds were used in the development of agriculture, so that this would not happen to us... what we have today. Unfortunately, these provisions have never been implemented, never hundreds and hundreds of millions of marks, which were defined to go to foster agriculture, have not gone to separate accounts and have not been used in agriculture, but have gone into budgets and ended in consumption. Then we had a contract with Croatia which was signed and broken before 2000 and from it is visible, when we broke it, that only in one year the deficit fell by over 500 million marks. Then in 2001, we started to sign the Free Trade Treaty with the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, then and some other countries, from which we expected to get positive effects but unfortunately because of our unpreparedness and they made major negative effects. Example: In 2001, we had a deficit of billions and 100 million with Croatia, and last year it ended with nearly 2 billion. With Serbia, we had a surplus of 50 million marks, and last year it ended with a deficit of 750 million marks. It tells us what's been going on in that period for about seven years, and that big share has agricultural products. Then last year we ratified the CEFTA Agreement, also expecting some positive effects from that agreement, at least some of us. I also pointed out then the problem CEFTA is carrying us and we adopted were a law that would a little ease some things but, unfortunately, he did not get most in the House of Nations and could not take effect to give certain effects. And today, when we look at what CEFTA brought us, then we see the report, for the first three months, from the Outer Chamber of Commerce, which you got on the bench, which tells us that in just three months this year we have a greater deficit of 500 million marks than three months last year. So in the last year, our total deficit increased by almost 2 billion marks and then this year, if the first quarter has a greater deficit of 500 million, by the end of the year another 2 billion marks are expected. Of these increases, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia account for one third of the external trade deficit. This means despite the 2.5 billion that we gave to those countries last year, this year it will come to 3 billion marks or something more. We expect the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The commercial part of it takes effect, practically, on the first month of the signing, which means again free trade with the EU, a re-attack on our production. This policy for the past 10 years has largely destroyed agricultural production, and we have already become a major import addict last year. And the world market disturbance in food production has resulted in our citizens paying for expensive foreign food instead of working our country for 10 years, hiring our people and having their own cheap food and even being exporters of that food. What awaits us for the next 10 years, about, when can we expect to join the EU as well? The implementation of the CEFTA Agreement and the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, i.e. especially the trade part, as well as others that will relate to our production in both agriculture and industry. For the next four years, we have a chance to try to save something, because pre-accession funds more significant from the EU can be expected in 2012, but they can only be used for those countries that... have their own production and will be able to withdraw money...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18670	Please take care of the weather alone.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18671	...from the EU. Thanks for the heads-up. Here, I'll hurry up a little bit, although I'm not a great consumer of time, so I'm asking you a little bit for your understanding. If we do not make significant steps in the next four years, then we will be in a position that in 2012, when we can take funds from access funds, we will not have production and we will not be able to take those funds and we will not be able to continue the development of our agriculture. And by entering the EU again, development has been questioned because those quotas and those quantities that we import into the EU are practically getting difficult because there must be various approvals for this, and then we will be permanently damaged because the EU is making 43% of its agricultural budget, and we, if we do not have production, will not be able to draw money. The money will be drawn by other countries and will practically continue to pay for expensive European food, i.e. For us, food will be produced by those who have a captainship of 15 euros, and instead of producing food for us people in this country who would be happy and with the captain five times smaller. What do we do to keep our next 10 years from happening again like the last 10 years? So we need to implement the CEFTA Agreement, which provides for safeguard measures. We need to use these funds to encourage agriculture to develop our agriculture by 2012, in order to create assumptions that we can draw funds from pre-accession funds and, by further developing until we join the EU, then, more significant funds can be drawn from the EU budget and permanently secure the production of their own, quality and cheap food. If we don't, domestic production will continue to be destroyed, our citizens will continue to pay for expensive food from imports. The College has won, but it is not shared with us representatives, and support from the Federation Parliament's House of Representatives and also from the Federation House of Peoples that they want this law to be adopted in order to achieve two effects. One is to protect domestic producers and the other is to raise additional funds. Article 23 would give us the possibility that we can do so, and I, in essence, have defined the procedure for using Article 23 bis in the coming period and what measures to enter into force immediately. I think this law will be easy to explain to the Hrvat, both Srbin and Bošnjak in BiH, but those who do not support this law, I think it will be difficult to explain how we donated 2.5 billion to Croatia and Serbia last year, how we will present 3 billion marks to the citizens of Croatia and Serbia this year, and which is why Serbia and Croatia tasked BiH, especially the Bosniak people, to give them so much money every year. 115 thanks.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18672	The following has been registered for discussion by the distinguished representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18673	I only have one question for the promoter. Namely, Article 5... provides that the customs authorities of customs duties, customs tariffs, now listed, originating in the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia will charge the full customs duties indicated in column 4. Customs tariffs. Indeed, the criteria, meaning these customs heads from the countries, so Serbia and Croatia have confused me a little. Namely, I was called by producers, or an association of pasta producers in BiH. They say they have a huge problem with imports of pasta from Turkey, and that the BiH-level production is under way. Of course, it's also about the part... that could fall into agricultural production. And here I am...this material that we got today from the Foreign Trade Chamber of BiH a little bit, so I saw that in the first three months of 2008, the coverage of imports by export is, say, I don't know, neither, let's not talk now.../shortly interrupted recording/... We export Montenegro more than we import, Italy 73.57, Germany 61.29, Serbia 53.52, Hungary 37.39, Croatia 37.20 etc. and, in the end, Turkey 4.25%. I wish the promoter had seen a little bit, so these, and these remarks that I'm talking about. And if the law enters the amendment phase, I will, in any case, get a little more interested in these producers who called me yesterday. So I haven't had contact with them before, so let's see if it can be expanded in this Article 5th and this customs head, so, but also these countries, if they apply to other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18674	Thank you. The following has been reported for the debate by distinguished representative Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18675	I thank the chairman. Here, at first, let me remind you, for those who are not... troublemakers, yes, if anything can be interpreted on one or the one, these are the data that have been delivered to us from the Foreign Chamber of Commerce and see here trends, indeed, that follow what is the subject of the proposal of this law, requires a little more attention and, of course, we can read everyone from their own corner and what we are interested in, and individual countries, and individual products, product groups etc. But if the law is passed, then the debate requires a very different approach. And, as much as I think the proposals of the SDA Club's conclusions, which went in the direction of showing the Council of Ministers on certain issues, I think they're on a good track. 116 We have before us a law entitled the Law on the Protection of Domestic Production. So far, I've said to myself on several occasions, when they were similar proposals from the same promoter, every time we should think more about the law, about stimulating domestic production. So, let's not protect ourselves a little bit, something we don't even know whether it's competitive or not competitive. In addition, protection mechanisms are now overcome, protection mechanisms are also banned, and stimulating mechanisms, in a wide repertoire, especially in countries that are organised in this way, especially modest possibilities, are much wider repertoires. And I am so concerned that I really need to think, talk, make some appropriate solutions, whether laws, sublegal acts, at any level of government, about stimulating domestic production, about attracting foreign investment. So, the security of what will lead us to meet one of those three, one of those three criteria when it comes to the European path, which is that we can respond, or deal with competition in the EU internal market. I don't know if this law is the one. I think of him, of course, can be spoken of in different ways. When it enters the amendment phase, if it enters, I will propose an amendment which, if of course, does not comply with the appropriate assumptions, which would delete, for example, Article 5. This rest can stay. ... I'm talking unless the proper assumptions are fulfilled by then. I have reservations in the following, thanks to precisely the material that has been distributed to us today, because CEFTA countries, or CEFTA countries, are subject to this law, I am here, of course, and as Parliamentarian before which this law, and also someone who is really interested in it, has received one satisfaction today, I must say, precisely because I was an advocate to get into a regional trade arrangement as soon as possible, aware of exactly what... that we stay out of it, and that everyone else is going. Let's say, I'm... now, unlike the data we just heard, I'm just gonna focus on CEFTA because she's the subject of this story. I will remind you here, or refer you to the data that... the first three months of 2007 for countries that were in CEFTA- and then the CEFTA arrangement was not yet but were bilateral trade contracts, the coverage of exports was 45.9, not to enter..., these nominal amounts etc. I focus only on the use of CEFTA, which is a very small period of time to make serious conclusions. Three months, or four months in total, that includes this one, even though it's only for the first three months here, but let's say, if it's November, we ignore December, to focus on three months, to see trends in the first three months. It's very difficult and based on trends to draw conclusions, but here. Let's say, if anyone wanted to, even if on that..., with 45.9 coverage of imports of exports,...we received data that the coverage of imports by export for the same first three months of this year after the application of CEFTA 48.6. Furthermore, the trend has increased imports 21.6 and the trend in export growth is 28.69, which means that we are growing exports faster than imports are growing. And these are, although you can't really get away with it, not be quiet, not optimistic after these results, but if this is the beginning, then I have to say this promises. So I'm not going to speak, of course, to draw the conclusion that it's already good for BiH or not good, that's it. I will return to one subject which is subject to this law, or goods which,...or the names of the head of the Customs Tariff which are attached here in this law. It's mostly about products, although they're called agriculturals here, but they're a good part... concerned, of course, by the accompanying industries, although I don't understand, the Law on the Protection of Domestic 117 Production, so here it stands: bird eggs, so there's coffee, so there's rubber, so there's cocoa, so I don't know where we have that domestic production of bird eggs, coffee, etc. Where does that coffee work in BiH, so I'm a little bit... curious about what it was going to do? But to rule out that reserve, I want to draw attention to something else. The whole world is alarmed by the state of the food sector for various reasons, but I will only mention one, and we already feel the consequences of this drastic... food prices rise on the world market, with a trend of further growth in the next medium term. According to some estimates, food prices have increased by 180% since 2005. Do I have a word, Chairman? So food prices have increased by 180 and some percent. The reasons, the causes of all this, I won't talk. In a good way, they are also related to the increase in energy prices on the world market, but let me remind you that we are, for the better part, directed to the import of food and energy, so that we can behave and treat the problem properly, perhaps for a very short time. I appreciate that many of the questions that we've been having here for hours will soon begin to relate to this problem, which we will begin to deal with. So food and food prices, trends in the world food market, which have occurred for various reasons, deserve special attention. If this proposal is to maybe encourage state institutions to, here someone has suggested, deliver an analysis of the application of the CEFTA effects, that, perhaps, the Resorient Ministry make us this first finding, but here it can also be seen on the basis of all of this, that perhaps... on the basis of... some conditions in some critical areas, I do not know if these are the only ones that are listed here, that it is potentially proposing some set of measures or notices to this Parliament, if they will take some measures that are in the regulation of the Ministry or Council of Ministers, in terms of sublegal acts. In that sense, I think that this law, or this proposal or some such bill, should be a cause for discussion and analysis of this kind of thing that I'm talking about. I need these solutions that are here, they deserve, this why I stopped at Article 5 because here's what I'm saying. This data, but that's what the ministry of course needs to be manifested. Using this data, for example. I came across that with Serbia, for example. We have a percentage of import growth of 121 and exports of 207, so the Serbian market, in the first three months of CEFTA application, certainly a trend, if at all it can... in these three months, one market that is respectable and important for BiH, in terms of exports, because much more exports, or faster exports. When we look at, say, the market for the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, as these two countries have been apostrophe, the conclusion would be different. And what's the real situation? Is this, is this data for total exports and imports but are proposed...responsible solutions, i.e. banning or raising customs duties etc. ...to the appropriate product group. I'm saying this for one reason why we're all aware that we've taken over some international obligations as we enter some arrangements, so we have to abide by those obligations. We already have some instruments that include the possible launch of a safeguard procedure, if we are at risk of unfair competition. But, but... using these mechanisms without some more detailed analysis, I think we'd pay a much higher price. So... I suggest that, before we possibly do anything further 118 steps, we have one analysis, that is, of the resolute ministry... that needs to deliver it to us. And secondly, here is often said... EU funds etc. Let's just get rid of the illusions of this species! In order for us to benefit from the funds, we still need to travel many times, and here many laws to adopt, to take many more steps. And when we get to that stage, so that we can do it when it's at our disposal, believe it's not available like that. We here must have met some criteria when it comes to specific, let's say, agriculture and agricultural production related to and the size of the property, which concerns the situation in the sector, which concerns land-owned relations, which concerns agricultural policy, many areas which require a more serious analysis, so let's remove a little bit. Perhaps it would be good for you... farmers, who are very interested in it, to know that...a great deal of time should go by and a lot of government engagements in BiH to make it available to them. And... I'll come back, or I'll end up with what I started with. The regulations of this kind should refer to stimulating domestic production. This is a particular case of one product group. And when it comes to stimulating factors, I am surprised that, let's say, the debate of this type of entity parliament, where support came from, specifically the Federation's Parliament, did not open a little more seriously...in the domain of the ingenuity that entities have when it comes to agricultural production and the mechanisms at their disposal within the Federation, particularly within the Federation, when it comes to cantons, when it comes to local communities, when it comes to means to stimulate agricultural production. I think there is a much bigger problem here and on that side than the problem in the external sector, or the external trade sector. And I'm surprised that they've just easily transferred it to the field here, because this Parliament, unfortunately, has only ingenuity, when it comes to the foreign trade sector, and here we have our hands in many things tied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18676	Thank you. The following has been reported by a respected representative, Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18677	Mr. Chairman, before I begin my discussion, you won't be angry with me for one suggestion. My recommendation is, here you are at the beginning of your presidency, that when you call one registered speaker to announce which is next. At the very least, don't come out, because otherwise we don't know when we are. I mean, the suggestion is quite well-intentioned. When it comes to this law, which we need to plead in this first reading, I want to remind you that PDP was for CEFTA. The PDP had no reserve, even though it would delay ratification or not, it was for the ratification of CEFTA, aware of the fact that in some areas of BiH, because of its inertness in understanding what was coming to it throughout this process of European integration, that it would have some damage but that this is a reminder that we are preparing faster. 119 However, the CEFTA Agreement has certain mechanisms to protect domestic production, and this is... particularly sensitive to the agricultural sector, as it stands. Here I have a book in front of me. This is a commentary on the provisions of the CEFTA Agreement issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic...relations, where it stands... and they are calling for certain customs concessions that we can... use and are called, in this book, and for the provisions of the WTO under which there should be domestic protection measures, and in 2002 BiH adopted a Decision on measures to protect domestic production from excessive imports, which is published in the "Official Messenger" and accordingly has the right to bring protection measures, in this case agricultural production. So, on our part,... this initiative will now be supported, noting that I will give this law to the Economic Council of the Party to analyse it in concrete terms of members. So this support today doesn't mean there'll be support... in the end, when we decide in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18678	Thank you. No more reports. Here, you see, dear colleague Dokić, your suggestion, unfortunately, is not very helpful. A lot of people seem to be waiting for ambushes. I don't even have an electronic, but now I have an electronic Mr. Lagumdji on report, but first it was like this, but okay, it's on time. I'm not too quick to conclude. So, the next one was signed up by the esteemed representative of Lagumdžija, and then the esteemed representative Mehmedović, and then, if you will, in front of the ministry...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18679	Thank you, Chairman. Obviously, this technique isn't all-powerful, it's proven many times today. ... Let me be very clear. The reasons why respected counterpart Ivanković proposed such a law are more than obvious. The material that we have received from the Foreign Chamber of Commerce is such that it is fortunate that we have such a bill in the procedure because, when we have obtained such material from the Out-of-the-art Chamber of Commerce, it would be sufficient reason for every parliament on the planet... that the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the competent minister come out with an appropriate analysis of this trend which, with the full respect of all the debaters, is least said, alarming. We are also the ones who, here for a long time, have been trying to... in time alarm, first of all, the executive authority in BiH to act more actively towards the cancer of this society's early economically, which is a trade deficit. Last year, the trade deficit reached the largest in the country's history, and that is the largest increase in the trade deficit in one year, which has increased by an incredible nearly 2 billion marks in just a year. Last year's trade deficit, the increase in the trade deficit amounted to 120 twice the BiH institution's annual budget, including the amount to service the country's debt. These indicators, which we have here, say that in fact, I'd like to make a mistake, but the optimistic forecast from these trends, so the optimistic forecast from these trends is that we might be able to break through something that looks like a sound wall this year. Breaking the sound wall... for the first time, and that's... a trade deficit this year, if this trend continues! It is known that in previous years in the first quarter the trade deficit was smaller than it was, i.e. The increase in the trade deficit was less than a quarter of the total deficit, the increase in deficits in that year, so following that simplest legality... which is known. If we were to stop this increase in the trade deficit now, if the increase in the next quarter were, conditionally speaking, so that this negative trend does not continue, if it were to act in the right way now, it shows the analysis that we could add to the increase in the trade deficit for the new 2 billion marks, which would mean that the trade deficit in this year, if, therefore better,... let's face that fact than we did in the previous years, so that the trade deficit in this year could be 10 billion marks. That's, unfortunately, the facts. Now, that is, whether or not, only the increase in the trade deficit in this year should again exceed the double amount of our BiH institutions' budget, including foreign debt service. To short the story, we just for these reasons, not only support the bill proposal, I agree with my colleague Hadžiahmetović, and I think it would be good if my colleague Ivanković could accept that version to talk about stimulating domestic production, rather than protecting. That's what we've been getting into for years, and it would be good to learn that that's the way it is. It doesn't change the essence of what you wanted, what-more, you're not protecting this, you're trying to stimulate it. So there are two reasons why I support a change in the name of the law: to talk about stimulating domestic production, under: Ad. 1st because that's the standard we've committed to, and Ad. 2. because we are, indeed, trying to do it, and then such a proposal to change the name of the law, I think, would be more adequate. For these reasons, supporting this to pass in the first reading, I think it would be good to assign the Council of Ministers, or the Secretary-General to prepare us for the next phase, if this law gets through... to have a more serious analysis, with a proposal for measures of the Council of Ministers that arises for the reasons for which we accept this and... this law not only gets further support, but... to be the initial capsule for the Council of Ministers and the competent ministry to take an even more active role in this direction on this issue in the future. I'm not suggesting, I can write this for you, but there's no need. If you yourself, Mr. Chairman, consider it appropriate to make one working conclusion of that kind, I think we could use it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18680	I thank the esteemed representative of Lagumdžija. 121 Dear Representative Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18681	It is good, though, that Mr. Lagumdžija spoke before me because neither is the situation in this area as well and optimistic as the distinguished Professor Hadžiahmetović said, nor is it disastrous, or alarming as Mr. Lagumdžija said, but as the Bosanac would say, so. Namely, if this analysis was carefully read, provided by the Foreign Chamber of Commerce and if only the countries that are members of the CEFTA Treaty are observed, then this is a solid state, in fact the first effects of applying the CEFTA Free Trade Treaty are, however, optimistic, as the distinguished professor said, namely, because coverage has been increased from 45.9% to 48.6%. But what I actually came forward for is more than one suggestion to the Council of Ministers and to all of us to take care of the period ahead, which is after the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. After that, it will automatically start certain reliefs for EU goods imported into BiH, which is certainly going to have negative effects on export coverage. So here's the second part of this table on the page. 17. I draw attention to the first five countries that, in fact, hold primates in both imports and exports to BiH. What is alarming is why the drop in coverage of... imports by import, imports from Germany, Slovenia, Italy, Austria and Hungary, as the first and largest of our trading partners. As a result, the total balance sheet, meaning the export coverage from 48.8 to 44.6% in the first three months of this year. For this reason, the SDA has proposed two conclusions... in fact... that should be made clear safely before the vote on the proposal for a bill, which was proposed by the esteemed representative Lijanović, which is: 1.To be obliged by the Council of Ministers to draw up an analysis of the effects of the CEFTA Treaty and the opinion on the proposed Law on the Protection of Domestic Production (although we consider that the title of this law is not adequate because it would certainly be contrary to the provisions of the CEFTA Treaty because we cannot encourage...domestic products in any way) and: 2.It is the Foreign Chamber of Commerce to provide information on the external trade balance of BiH, with a specific reference to trends after the entry into force of the CEFTA Agreement. Namely, we have... this material that we've got and we've got it here thanks to the distinguished representative Jerki who's more informally come into possession of this material. I'd like it to be the Foreign Chamber of Commerce or one of the representatives of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce to explain to us here all of these figures that are in this written material. And for that reason, the Club of Representatives of the SDA will insist that these conclusions be made before the law. Thank you very much. 122
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18682	Thank you. The word has been respected by the second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18683	Thank you. Given that there has been a lot of debate today on the agenda, I did not want to further complicate this situation by asking that this item be excluded from the agenda, because in the business line of the 100th new Rules of Procedure,... position (2), or position (3), when the legislator of the law, the opinion of the Directorate for European Integration is in line with... EU legislation is being prepared by the Kolegijum of the doma. We asked the Council of Ministers and the Directorate but we didn't get that opinion. Without that opinion, it's very difficult for this house to discuss this law in a quality way because it just seems to me that we're going to enter here in very dangerous waters where we're going to do what we did before. The EU, perhaps accidentally, but with a bill like this, without the opinion of whether it is in line with... legislation to do so. For that reason, we certainly... will not plead on this law in a positive way, but, let me just say, we didn't want to suggest that it be removed from the agenda, even though the business opportunities didn't allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18684	Thank you. We've exhausted the list of drunks for discussion. Anybody else want to sign up? There isn't. The word came from Assistant Minister Mr. Šerifović, if I am well informed.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18685	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Vice President. The chairman, distinguished MPs, may be too high for me to be talking about some details and our opinions right now. Unless... there will be no official statement, given what Mr. Živković was saying, so maybe I'd prefer if most of you think you should leave for a later statement on the law. Since the Council of Ministers' statement has not arrived, then let us not give our opinion on all this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18686	It'll be a statement, just keep going. 123
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18687	All right, all right. So I should say, take it out. Thank you very much. The problem... of BiH's trade with the world, the problem of import, exports and trade deficits exists, and no one can deny it and should run from it. The problem with solving this problem is something else. First, I'll just remind you briefly, '95. And '96. the years were atypical for monitoring trends and trends in imports and exports due to VAT. And just to say, in 2005, the deficit was 7,250,000, in 2006. 6 billion and no one said... that someone had... a reason or a success why they reduced the deficit by 1.250,000. It's nobody's success, it's just a VAT thing. Also, only in this year, to say by the alleged signs, came normal and comparison and growth in 2007 with 2006 – slightly...unsuitable. I'm the one who said it under alleged signs. In fact, when we talk about the trade deficit it is necessary – we have talked about it before – it is necessary to look at the structure of the trade deficit. What are the goods that affect or contribute to the major trade deficit? Before I say that in 2007, the participation of goods in imports was 25% or 3.4 billion made up machines, devices, etc. That's the part, which means it's imported to rebuild production,...through foreign investments, etc. ... In 2007, four product groups accounted for about 50% of the trade deficit in 2007. It's oil, or oil derivatives 18.57%, it's machines, appliances, mechanical devices 11.88%, vehicles other than rail vehicles, parts thereof, accessories 11.57% and electric machines, devices 18%. So, electrical machines and mechanical devices, etc. About 20%. If we will and intend to reduce the trade deficit in total, then we should first see what we do in these areas. Here you have seen, these two areas can be considered again, perhaps, under alleged signs, desirable for importing machinery equipment, etc. Imports of agricultural products in 2007... amounted to about 16% of our total imports. The sensitivity and importance of agricultural products, as we have heard, is known worldwide and deserves special attention. In many countries, this is done in a system of incentives such as the EU and other countries or the protection measures done by many countries and even in the region when free trade contracts are concluded. In our case, since we instead of...contracting customs, customs and quotas, at the time of the conclusion of the Free Trade Treaty, we agreed to symmetry to mean for us, for example. The neighbouring countries are fully opening up, and they are paying for their goods imported into BiH 70, 60, 40, 30, etc., because we considered it more favourable for us. ......... We have two things left, one so-called. the development or systematic measures we have spoken here means encouraging and strengthening BiH's legal and institutional capacities that are also related to the BiH EU accession process and bringing our legal legislation into line with EU legislation. The second part is using the instruments of safeguards that exist both in WTO and CEFTA rules, etc. When it comes to the first part, let me just remind you, in addition to knowing that agriculture is generally at the level of entities and that they have strategies and that they... are passing laws for incentives in the area of agriculture, and from what we have stated in the programme of measures implementing CEFTA which you have adopted in some way, I will allow you, just to remind you that at the level of BiH, the Strategic Plan for the Harmonisation of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development 2008 – 124, 2010, which is to go to the Council of Ministers and the operational programme for the implementation of this plan, that, at the request of the EU, or the Directorate for European Integration, BiH's integration programme in the EU is specifically being created. I have here two materials from our Agriculture and Veterinary Office, and when you look at it and see what's planned, in terms of training, strengthening these institutions, you'll see that it's one of the segments that is very important. What is provided for in the law, I must say that it is completely contrary to all the elements of the agreement, the rules and the procedures of the WTO, etc. We are this material that Dokić showed, this comment we made, the protection rules we devoted to 18 pages. And if anyone reads all that in detail, they'll see what's scheduled and how it's supposed to be. In the very proposal for a law, it is mainly about Article 23. If, for a moment, we put aside Article 22 relating to anti-dumping, Article 23, so to speak, it consists of Article 23. Article 23 says that they are undertaken appropriately, let us call them, protective measures, in the event that excessive imports of certain or certain products are in such quantities to cause or cause serious damage to the undertaking, or to the product group. This must be proven, the procedure is prescribed by the Council of Ministers' decision and we do not need any further procedures. Article 23 bis says certain safeguards are being taken. In the event that excessive imports of the product lead to serious market disturbances – it is considered agricultural,.... it is not about the problems that exist in one company, group, etc. - and this should prove that there has been a disturbance on the market. Secondly, when you prove that there has been a market disturbance, Article 23 bis says submit this page from which product or product group comes, consult and find a solution. If you can't find a solution, in anticipation of such a solution,...you can take appropriate measures. I think it's clear that none of this is respected here, and I'm not talking about what a member who talks about protective measures is talking about a statement to these members who are the subject of the law, who says that the parties will not take any protective measures until they adopt domestic regulations to regulate it. We have made regulations, a decision on the protection of domestic production, a decision on anti-dumping, and no new regulation is necessary. When it comes to the introduction of customs, it is, they say, a gallant violation of the CEFTA Agreement and, besides, we will not understand,... let us understand, so to speak, that however we import a lot of goods, especially from neighbouring countries, we also export a lot of goods... to those countries. 30% of our exports go to Serbia and Croatia, and any measure of this kind will surely compromise and disrupt our exports. We have already been called for infringing the CEFTA Agreement due to the existence of Council of Ministers decisions which in part retains some of these products. We will certainly be called very quickly if such or similar legislation is passed, and not only would such a law and similar law be a violation of this agreement immediately after the adoption and entry into force of the Stabilisation of Association Agreement, it would also mean a violation of this Agreement, because in Chapter 3 entitled Regional Co-operation, it explicitly states: BiH commits itself to the consistent application of the Agreement on Free Trade and the CEFTA Agreement. Not to mention how customs heads are listed here, here 4-5 of the heads listed in Article 5. The proposal of the law is a thousand products, a thousand products on ten figures of the Customs Tariff. ... Our analyses show that at least 50% of these products are not imported into BiH from Serbia and Croatia at all, and we need them to prove that imports of these products... lead to serious disturbances on the BiH market. Of those 50% that are left, at least 50% is imported in such small quantities that they are negligible and are not interesting for discussion, so I think that the solution should be sought in the other direction, if protective measures are sought in accordance with the regulations, this is not it, or what was said: developmental, stimulating measures and others concerning... agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18688	I thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] ... Jerko, you answered everyone. If you think that's gonna help you pass the law, I'll let you go for 15 minutes, and you'd better give up. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18691	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Novaković has raised the issue of imports from Turkey. This law cannot regulate it because Turkey and I have an exchange under the Free Trade Treaty. So we have to look for another measure to apply to Turkey because it applies only to CEFTA members, but there is also a possibility under the Treaty with the Republic of Turkey to make certain things happen because the Treaty provides for certain things to be regulated. And then, my colleague Azra made a lot of good suggestions, and I think that in the next session, if the law is passed, we need to support it, so that we have to be careful when we talk about the percentages of growth, because the large percentage on a small basis means a little, and a small percentage on a large basis means a lot. And when we compare Serbia and Croatia in these three months, so we see how the percentages are going in a positive direction, and by three months we've increased 170 million marks -- so only for these three months -- so we have to look at absolute amounts, so we don't actually get the wrong impression. There was also a mention of coffee in the part of the product, I don't think it's there, but in the law, there are all the heads of the Customs Tariff, it's not the subject of this law. The conclusions of the SDA, I think they're very good. I think it would be a good idea for us to adopt this law in our first reading and I think the law deserves to be adopted by a consensus like the... adoption of the CEFTA Agreement, and by the next session, in 30 days, we also get the Council of Ministers' views on the matter. 126 The discussion of the ministry's representatives is nothing new. We in the Council of Ministers, unfortunately, have no side for negotiators, because there is no Ministry of Agriculture, as the Ministry of Agriculture said: agriculture is mostly at federal level and in the RS, so I fully agree with the ministry in the area of industrial products, but in the area of agriculture and I understand that it is not their priority and logic itself imposes that this agriculture is certainly small and perhaps it should not exist, and such statements have been heard in a certain direction. What is important to note is that the Federation Parliament has reduced the incentives by 50% compared to the strategy it adopted. These are disturbances in domestic regulatory agencies, mechanisms, because he did not get enough money and the prime minister from the U.S.A. at the Federation's Parliament clearly urged MPs to knock on the open door and that such things should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18692	I thank you, too. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Moving to the 12th point of the established agenda: Ad. 12 Report from the Joint Committee on the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the application and protection of the name of Bosnia and Herzegovina The Joint Committee was scheduled to hold a session this morning and held it and you received a report from this committee. I'm opening a debate if there's any need. Honorable representative Hadžiahmetović has one question before the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18694	I'm really... not about this agenda point. We've already been working for ten hours and we're in the middle of the agenda. About half of the established agenda and my question concerns, given the fatigue of the MPs, is there...is there any foreseeable dynamics until we work, so that we all know... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18695	The assessment of the College is that we... are going to finish this session today and the agenda, this session today. That's the answer to the question. 127 So we're going to continue... If there is a debate on the 12th agenda, if there is no debate, I will conclude the debate. I'm going to the 13th item of the agenda, Ad. 13. Report by the College Committee on Efforts of Consent on Proposals of Representatives Zlatko Lagumdžija from the 9th joint session of both homes. The College's report as a commission you've received. No consent has been reached. Is there a need for a debate? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 14th point of the established agenda: Ad. 14. Appointment of the Chief Auditor and the Vice Chief Auditor
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18698	Thank you. I just want to say, as a rapporteur on this agenda point, the name of the Commission that did this job, that we did all the work as it says here and ended with a consensus. There are no complaints in one correct business way and it is now left that Parliament is pleading on the proposed candidates, noting that for a really long, more than a year, this is what has been waiting for. It was once a commission that did the job, so the job was renewed and, as a result of work for nearly three months, we have this now and we ended up as a commission of our own. 128
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18699	I thank the esteemed representative, Nanić. We don't have anyone else registered on this agenda. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Consideration of the report of the House's committees for 2007 I propose that we bring the debate together in all sub-points, meaning the debate on the report of the Constitutional Commission, the Committee on Finance and Budget, the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Transport and Communications and the Committee on Gender Equality. You've been given the sorceress from this point. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We move to the 16th point of the established agenda: Ad. 16. Review of the 2007 report on the work of the joint committees of both homes: (a) the Joint Commission on Defence and Security (b) the Joint Security and Security Committee on the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina (c) the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics, (e) the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs (e) the Joint Committee on European Integrations (f) the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18703	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a proposer of this agenda point, I would like to say that I am not going to spread some discussion and debate in the debate that you have opened, because I have given this point of the agenda, or proposal, this point of the agenda today... when we discussed the agenda and I think it is quite enough for this session to adopt this conclusion, and by the material obtained from the Council of Ministers, we will probably have some new debate. And I'm calling on the other colleagues, so let's get it straight. I think the conclusion is quite clear and precise what is required: to make a statement about the conclusion. Because I believe that many today have said a lot about this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18704	Thank you. I don't. He has... a respected representative of Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18705	Chairman, then we need to put in charge of the Council of Ministers, here's a conclusion in that sense, that, first of all,... prepare the information on the assets of the former DPO, is it? So,... let's see how it's settled in the environment, because in the environment now it's all settled, is it, and that on the basis of that two and we... we charge the Council of Ministers to give us a proposal on how to deal with it in BiH. So, in that sense, the SDA will submit... a proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18706	Thank you. All I'm asking is that in writing you submit a proposal for a conclusion. The following has been registered by the distinguished representative Križanović. Here you go. 130
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18707	Mr. Chairman, I would not spread the debate either, since we had previously discussed this, but I would be more concerned with the proposal given by distinguished colleagues, Sefer Halilović, which reflects the same essence, and is expanding in fact... the procedure, i.e. verifying or initiate a legal procedure and the adoption of laws relating to the property of all socio-political organisations, in which sense my colleague Izetbegović also spoke. So, in short, instead of this conclusion, I would like to advocate the conclusion formulated by my colleague Sefer Halilović, which includes the SNSD as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18708	Thank you. Dear Representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18709	That's actually it, is what we in the U.S.A. want. We want, therefore, to get first from the Research Centre here or from the Council of Ministers to see what it is like in the countries of the former Yugoslavia,... in the countries that were created by the collapse of the former Yugoslavia, the issue solved... so that we have a review. So, and when it comes to us, we... in our conclusion we will actually be in charge, we propose to do what Mr. Izetbegović said: The Council of Ministers' task to prepare information on the assets of former socio-political organisations (here we refer to the Union of Communists, the Socialist Union and the Union of Socialist Youth), with data on its users, legal status, open issues, with a proposal for legal and other activities to regulate this area. That would be the two points of this conclusion, which we've already put into this procedure, so that I can finish reading it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18710	Thank you. The following has been reported by the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18711	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, here in Parliament, we have had, to say, ugly experiences when we have led one or several good initiatives by further expansion to absurdity. I don't mind that this conclusion that suggests or defines (Mr. Halilović) SDA is also put to the conclusion number 2 in that same conclusion. 131 So we insist that the procedure of what can already be done and what has already been done in the countries in the environment, where there is a law. And if under 2. that spreads to all the ones that you have listed here so as not to come into a position that the Council of Ministers - and already several such initiatives, not to mention now which ones - come into a position that it cannot respond to what Parliament asks of it. That's why we're not against your proposal, but we'd like to do it: under 1st and 2nd in conclusion, so we can... we can do it if we want to do it to the end, and we want to do it to the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18712	Thank you. I don't have any more registered records, I'm guessing.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18713	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18714	Oh, yeah, he can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18715	And can we now get all these proposals before the vote, so that it doesn't happen to us as the last time we leave the session: we can't comment on them, but we just have a chance to vote yes or no. So it would be good if we could get them before the session ends, so if we could open up a debate about them, if not, but at least, it would be logical to be able to discuss any conclusion, not just here which is proposed but also the others who are here right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-14-0.u18716	I must remind you that by this time I have... an official proposal for two conclusions. If any of them arrive at the time of the plea, they'll be with you and me at the same time, so... you'll be able to, we'll plead to that. No more reports. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We're going to the 18th point... of the agenda: ad. 18. Giving consent to ratification: (a) The Strasbourg Agreement on the International Classification of Patents (b) of the European Convention on the Non-Aging of Crime against Humanity and War Crimes (C) of the Convention on the Protection of Intangible Cultural Heritage (UNESCO) 132 The Foreign Affairs Committee had a session, you got the Foreign Affairs Committee's opinion. I am opening the debate and I also suggest that we bring together a debate on all three agreements, or conventions. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I'm taking a break. To be more realistic – here, I have a proposal 30 minutes – I think it's more realistic 45 minutes, so at 20.45. Do you appreciate that we can do this sooner? [[Common discussion]]
