ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20184	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 34th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. At today's session, after the MPs, our regular guests were invited: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our House and representatives of certain NGOs. I welcome all present representatives as well as media representatives. Here, I hope you're all rested and ready to work effectively today. According to service information, I find that 36 MPs are present at the session, which is sufficient quorum for full work and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in the call for a session, I have noted that, as part of the previous issue, we will declare the points for which we have postponed the decision at the 33rd session. I suggest we do it now. So, on the 19th, 20th, 21st and 22nd item of the 33rd session, the debate is over and all we have left is the vote. Therefore, I invite you to join the vote on these points. And please prepare yourselves. I thank you for, hopefully, well-intentioned suggestions from the bench about how to decide. Since I hope you are ready to decide, we are moving to a statement on the 19th point of the agenda of the 33rd session: Report by the College of the Efforts Committee on the Proposal for a Law on Public Roads (first reading). The college didn't achieve consent. We all vote in the second round. If two-thirds are against, from any entity, the proposal is not accepted. If otherwise, the proposal has been accepted. I hope the instructions are clear enough, Mr. Džaferović. And now we're moving on to a plea. Please prepare. Vote now! 25 votes "yes", 11 "against", without abstentions. I find that more than two-thirds of the votes are "against" from the RS and therefore this law is not accepted in the first reading. 2 We move to the 20th item of the agenda: Report of the College's Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for receipt of the Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2007. No consent has been reached here either. We are voting in the second round on receiving the Report of Knowledge. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 18 "for", 11 "against"; two-thirds "against" from the RS entity – I find that we have not received the report. Now we need to make clear the conclusions that have been proposed in the debate on this agenda point. I remind you once again, in the debate under this point the conclusions were proposed by the SNSD Club, the conclusions in four points; Rifat Dolić one conclusion, Husein Nanić one conclusion, Momčilo Novaković one conclusion. I suggest that the conclusions of the Club of Representatives of the SNSD are presented in the package in four points. Are there any different suggestions that we should not plead? There isn't. We move to a statement on the SNSD's proposal for a conclusion. The conclusions are in four points. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 12 "for", 15 "against", nine "abstained", with a sufficient, or insufficient entity majority of votes "against", I would say, I find that the conclusions have been accepted. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, so no conclusions have been accepted. We are going to make a statement on the conclusion of Rifat Dolić – one conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 16 “for, ” 17 “against, ” an insufficient general majority. The conclusion was not accepted. We move on to a statement on the proposal for a conclusion in two points, the esteemed representative of Nanić. We're pleading on both of us in the package. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 17 "for", 14 "against", insufficient entity majority "against". I find that the conclusions of Husein Nanić have been accepted. We move on to a statement on the proposal for the conclusion of the distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković. _________(?) 3 [[no microphone turned on]] What? At the request of the SNSD Club, we repeat the vote on the proposal for the conclusion of the distinguished representative Husein Nanić. Please prepare yourself on the proposal for the conclusion of the distinguished representative Husein Nanić. We repeat the vote at the request of the SNSD Club. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 17 “for, ” 16“ against. ” In addition to two thirds of "against" from RS, the conclusions were not accepted. We are now moving on to a statement on the proposal for the conclusion of the distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 14 “for, ” 12“ against. ” _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the SNSD Club, I ask that two more points be added to the agenda within this set of approvals for ratification... It is: - A loan agreement between BiH, represented by the finance and vault ministry, and Raiffeisen Banka; it refers to the development of a water management system in the Laktashi municipality. And second: - A Memorandum of Understanding between the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and the World Health Organisation's Regional Office for Europe. So let's add them to this set of other agreements that are on the agenda today. I have the oral agreement of the President of the Commission that we will meet in a break and give an opinion on the agreements.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20189	I thank the esteemed representative Marković. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20190	Dear Chairman, esteemed guests, media representatives, on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH House of Representatives, I propose that the agenda of today be placed immediately after parliamentary questions and answers, which would read as follows: - Consideration of the proposal for conclusions proposed at the 10th joint session of the House of People and the House of Representatives for discussion on the content of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. At the end of July, we held this joint session, and specifically, when it comes to SDP MPs, we made a series of proposals and concrete conclusions on the subject. We also made it very clear at the session at the end of July that even then it was too late for some conclusions, given that we had lost a lot of time without need. However, we were revoted at the end of July with the explanation of parliamentary majority people, who told us that we would speak out at the first session in early September. Since this is the first session in early September, we wonder why these agenda points are missing. Of course, you will now tell me that this is referred to a commission phase, and according to these materials, I see that the Commission is yet to meet on 8 September to discuss the issue. However, I repeat, on the explanation that was at the end of July and on these conclusions, and especially on the deadlines, because time is not going on, we suggest that we finish this job here today, so at the House of Representatives session. That's our proposal. Thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20191	Thank you. Please submit your proposals in writing and you, honourable MPs, and you, Your Honor. The next one was announced by the distinguished representative Slavko Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20192	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, honored guests, I propose an addition to the agenda, with one point: - Consideration of the proposal for a conclusion which would read: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the Central Election Commission of BiH to review its decision, which has taken away the right to vote for thousands of exiles, BiH citizens, in the process of registering voters outside Bosnia, who in the process of registering voters outside BiH have shown their intention to participate in local elections that have been denied without their guilt." A brief explanation. It is known that by the process of registering for the local elections, several thousand voters expelled from BiH by the Central Election Commission's decision have been denied the right to participate in the elections because of the Central Election Commission's allegations of invalid beliefs about citizenship. Despite their intention to go to the elections, the border has become the victims of their own state, which has not allowed them to exercise their electoral right as other BiH citizens do. I wouldn't take any longer with this argument. I just want to say that the decision is truly surprising and surprising, so that I don't use any more difficult, rougher terms, I personally think that it is both unsustainable and therefore, in the name of the HDZ Club, I propose this addition of the agenda to request a review of that decision. As far as the proposal of the distinguished colleague Marković is concerned, if the House of Representatives today is determined to include the two agreements she proposes for approval for ratification, if we do so, it would be good to have that material delivered to all representatives, especially the members of the Commission, if we are to hold a special session of the Commission today to discuss these two agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20193	Thank you. I don't have any more reports. Excuse me, distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20194	I would just ask the question: Is it possible to schedule the Commission this way, means business, since we other MPs don't have any of these materials? So is it possible to make an appointment to the Commission, to hold a break without the MPs having that material?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20195	Honorable representative, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20196	Thank you, Chairman. I will wait for the honourable MP Jerko to come, because I would like to make a request to him for the efficiency of Parliament's work today. But before I remind Reverend Novaković that he has business opportunities if he is willing, that this is not the first time, that we have done it many times in the past, and that was not the problem once. So, if there is a will, there are business opportunities, and I don't see any reason why these two agreements should be in the Parliamentary Assembly today, although, frankly, they came yesterday afternoon and the only reason we're doing this is not to say that some ratification agreement is here in Parliament in drawers. On the other hand, I wanted to ask the honourable MP simply to rename his request from the 5th item of the agenda for the 127th member of the Rules of Procedure to 126th and to hold a joint debate with the agenda item 7 and the request of the Council of Ministers on the same subject. That would bring these discussions together, and I'm sure the MP would consider that possibility. Another requirement is to consider whether we should even consider the item of the agenda regarding the election law, since it is clear to all that there is no legal possibility that the electoral law will change after the election is announced. So, we formally had to put this on the agenda, but he has the right to withdraw this item of the agenda, because in an explanation, I don't see any way to explain how legally we can change the election law in the election year, when the time has been declared. I think this is a good request, and until he gets here, maybe we should take five minutes off and see how he's determined to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20197	Thank you. I don't have any more logs on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20198	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20199	Is that a request for a break? Dear Representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 9 Although we were thinking about doing it at the next session, but obviously a little bit of things are complicated, because it's all tied up. Therefore, on behalf of the SNSD MPs' Club, we ask that the agenda item be included: - Proposal for a decision on keeping the census in BiH. It is obvious that these things are related and that by making such a decision we would come out of one dead end and solve all these other problems that follow this decision and do this job that I hope we are all agreeing to, that we should do it and then we would not have these other decisions that will be related to,...that is, the debate that could thus be warned.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20201	I thank the honourable representative. Are there other proposals for changes and additions to the agenda? Please submit a written proposal to the agenda item. Ten minutes off. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats so we can continue our work. Here, while these materials are being shared, do we have any more reports to discuss this point? Dear Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20203	Dear President, colleagues, fellow representatives, distinguished guests, regarding the amendment and addition of the Electoral Law, I had the aim to bring it before the elections in order to improve certain things in these municipal elections, because we have a situation that many of our leaders will be elected with maybe 10% of the vote of the electoral body and will probably make it difficult for them to work with such great powers that involve budgeting at the municipal level. I think the work will be very difficult if you only have 10% support for the citizens, and you actually have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20204	I beg you, you will get time to explain the bill when we move to the agenda. And I ask you, if you have any proposals to amend and supplement the agenda, you will have the opportunity to explain yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20205	Then I apologize, I was away, outside, I thought we had already come to this law and that it was debated. I have no objections to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20206	Thank you. Are there any more reported? I don't have any more reports. 10 We move to a statement on proposals for supplementing the agenda. First, we will speak out on the proposal of the distinguished representative, Milica Marković. She suggested that two other agreements be included in the agenda. I will read about what agreements are under way -- a loan agreement between BiH, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Raiffeisen Zentralbank Austria -- the development of a water supply system in the municipality of Laktashi. The agreement was signed by Mr Dragan Vrankić, Minister of Finance and Treasury, in 30.7.2008. A memorandum of understanding between the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and the World Health Organisation's Regional Office for Europe. The memorandum was signed by the magistrate Sredoje Nović, the minister of civil affairs. I suggest that, if the honourable representative agrees, we make a statement in the package, since it is one proposal. It's consensual. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 39 votes "yes", without the vote "against" and no "abstained" votes, I find that the proposal is accepted and we will Marković this proposal within the agenda point where international agreements are held. We'll add it, then. We move on to a statement on the proposal for the conclusion of the distinguished representative Denis Bećirović. The proposal for a agenda item is to consider the proposal for conclusions proposed at the 10th joint session of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives on the content of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. This is a proposal to make this the third item of the agenda. Please prepare to plead. Vote now! With 14 votes "yes", three "against", 23 "abstained", with enough entity, insufficient entity majority, pardon, pardon, insufficient entity majority - reconciliation. Is there a match? So, we'll do the merger later and you'll be notified. We move to a statement on the proposal for the conclusion of the distinguished representative Matić, in the name of the Club of Representatives of HDZBiH. The proposal for a conclusion is - The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the Central Election Commission to review its decision, which has taken the right to vote for thousands of exiles -- citizens of BiH who in the process of registering voters outside BiH have shown their intention to participate in the elections, which have been denied them without their guilt. 11 Please prepare. The agenda point, and this is the proposal for a conclusion within that point, that's right. Vote now! With 27 votes "yes", three "against", eight "abstained" and... an insufficient entity majority, whether there is an agreement. It's an ex-consensual match. We move to a statement on the SNSD's Opinion on a proposal for a conclusion (the entry into the agenda of the point). The conclusion is one. The BiH Council of Ministers undertakes that, in co-operation with the Federation and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the BiH Statistics Agency, the Republic Bureau of Statistics and the Federal Statistical Office, make up a decision to launch preparations for the implementation of the census, households and housing in BiH, which will precisely define the necessary data and obligations for the relevant BiH institutions necessary for the adequate implementation of these activities. The second point of conclusion is 2. Within a month, the Council of Ministers will submit a report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on concrete activities carried out on the issue. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 16 votes "yes", 21 "against", three "abstained", I find this proposal not accepted. I therefore conclude that the 34th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives has the following 1. Approval of the minutes of the 33rd session of the House of Representatives; 2. Agents' questions and answers; 3. The request of MP Jerko Ivanković Lijanović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 4. The request of MP Jerko Ivanković Lijanović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconciliation of Obligations on the basis of the account of the old foreign exchange savings under the hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 5. The request of representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović for consideration of the proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 6. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 126 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure; 7. A request from the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Alignment of Obligations under the accounts of the old foreign currency savings under the haste procedure, pursuant to Article 126 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure; 12 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act of BiH (second reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Features of BiH – Proposer of Representative Beriz Belkić (second reading); 10. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on bottled drinking waters of BiH (second reading); 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, with Opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget – Proposer Branko Dokić; 12. Report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for the period I – XII 2007; 13. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Criminal Procedure of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 14. Report from the Commission from the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of political parties – MPs Šefik Džaferović, Niko Lozančić and Milorad Živković (second reading); 15. Report from the Commission to the College on the attempt to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH – Proposer of Representative Milorad Živković; 16. Report from the Commission to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the BiH administration – Proposer of Representative Milorad Živković; 17. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Transport Policy for BiH for the period 2008 to 2020; 18. Proposal for a Council of Ministers to appoint a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina concessions commission; 19. The appointment of three members in the Interresor Working Group to prepare the draft law on conflict of interest in BiH authorities; 20. MP Adem Huskić's initiative to discuss the matter of Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets at one of the next House sessions; 21. The adoption of the Agreement on Economic Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovakia, (b) the Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Slovakia on the promotion and mutual protection of investments, (c) the Annex to the Agreement between BiH and the Kingdom of Norway on the financing of projects in favour of the judiciary and prosecutors in BiH, (e) the Protocol between the Ministry of Security of BiH - the Border Police - and the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia - the Head of Police - on the official transit through the State Area of the other Contracting Party in order to conduct a common national border, (e) the Protocol between the Ministry of Security of BiH - the Border Police - and the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia - on the Official Transit through the National Area of the Second Feature of the Second Contracting Party in the area of the Community, 13f) the Protocol between the Ministry of the Ministry of Security of BiH - and the Interior of the Republic of Croatia - and the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Croatia - the Republic of Croatia - the Republic of Croatia - the Key to the Republic of Croatia's Security of the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Croatia, the European Union of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Conventions prohibiting and restricting the use of certain types of conventional weapons; l) Agreement on credit between BiH, represented by the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, and Raiffeisen Zentralbank – Development of a water supply system in the Municipality of Laktashi and m) Memorandum of Understanding of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Regional Office of the World Health Organisation for Europe. We're moving to the first item of the Ad agenda. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 33rd session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20210	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I must express my dissatisfaction with the Council of Ministers' response to my initiative to send protest notes to the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia for failure to respect the Treaty on Success and illegal sale of BiH's assets. The answer I received is at least tenant, in it it found that the Republic of Serbia violates the Treaty on Sucession, which is more than true. But it is also true that the Treaty of Succession is no less in violation of the Republic of Croatia. Citing the case of "Agrokomerac-Comerca" property in Split and the explanation that "Agro-Comerca" did not have enough evidence of ownership is ridiculous. "Agrokomerc" before the war was owned and owned for almost 10 years and it's funny to talk about lack of evidence of ownership. It is very common here between the crime scene lobbies in Croatia and the management of Agro-Comerca, and this property is estranged by joint action. Here I have the fresh decisions of the courts in the Republic of Croatia... whose "AgroComerc" remains without property which is subject to a succession, which is worth close to 2m euros. So I'm not happy with the answer, but I'm satisfied with the knowledge that I've learned after getting this answer, and I'm going to express my point of view with the new question I'm going to ask today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20211	Thank you. Any more comments on the answers received? Dear MPs, here it is, Bešlagić, Jukić, and Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20212	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I received an answer from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council on the issue: What will be done in terms of the process being handled before the Court of Justice of BiH regarding the old foreign currency savings. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council gave me the answer that they also asked the courts and asked for answers, which satisfied me as the effectiveness of the work of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, but I still argue that this issue was not raised at all from a dead end, and I believe that this and the Ministry, Mr Čolak, should raise the issue of restoring these proceedings before the BiH courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20213	Thank you. Dear representative Jukić. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20214	Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen, representatives of the Council of Ministers, I have received a reply and I thank the Council of Ministers for the correct response, but I have an objection to the deadlines, i.e. the slowness of delivery of the response. Namely, the issue was raised on April 29th and referred to the level of receiving in three public TV services in BiH. At the time, it was current, to remind you, the Law on the Payments of Customers of the BiH Institutions and also the current Report on BHRT's work for last year and on financial business, as well as the Programme on the consolidation of the financial operations of this public institution, the Public TV Service. I got the answer and there's nothing spectacular in the answer. The salaries in these houses are on average slightly and better in BiH, which I believe is both correct and office, management also has salaries which, I would say, are within the framework of what the Law on the Payments of Users of the BiH Institutions is currently envisioned. So it's both correct and okay, here, I'm just saying, my point of view is slow. True, this was also the time of the annual vacation, but I still think that the deadline of some four and slightly more months, however, can be realistically at least twice as short, at least 60 days, and not 120 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20215	Thank you. Dear Representative Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20216	You didn't read me, I got this answer in August. I'll do the old one again until the issue of the property of the former Communist Union is resolved and I'll do every parliament. So I got the answer, 30.7. Sent, in August I got it so it's okay. Although I haven't been read here. I am pleased with the answer when it comes to the law and the Council of Ministers says they have sent the law to BiH's Attorney General. The laws in BiH give the original right as the rightholder of property to take certain legal actions to protect the same property through its legal representative, i.e. The BiH Attorney General's Office. And okay. This is all said and I have received a response from the BiH Law Department before that for one building on Alipashin, which they have done, where they have established, given that the ZK is being run as a beneficiary for ownership of the "d.s" state of BiH, is the beneficiary of the former Yugoslavia's SK. So, even before the war, the SK couldn't sign up for himself, and the SDP has no right now. It's like I'd be renting your house and taking money for rent. And that's why, so I'm satisfied... one part of the responsibility, he didn't have any more time. Probably, they were vacations, and from what it's decadently seen, the ZKK that SDP didn't own or could be. So, I only demand... I know it's in preparation for the State Property Act, that that's why they should be sent here and there and it's slow going. I want it to be dealt with urgently, and there's this Parliament decision, and I want the state to return what's its own, that's the state. I cannot accept, as the chairman of the Finance Commission, that the state pays 20 million marks for the accommodation of its institutions and that the SDP illegally collects money from income that it illegally uses. And I did it last time and again I say that this political party is now in a privileged position compared to other political parties. The president of the 16th political party travels around the white world, visits all the major metropolis, spends, behaves luxuriantly. It's all at the expense of the people, at the expense of these couples, I want it to be dealt with urgently, urgently, and resolved and returned. No one else's money, no money's good to anyone else's money, so neither will they. I'll do it when this question is repeated and settled, I've already said, but I'll look for the amount... that the state has won, means all the rent they got with interest. I think it's out of my mind that the state with so much of its property, it's so clean, let someone do it, it's illegal for me, someone illegally kills in front of us all, and we here as MPs can't let it happen. We can't let someone raise huge funds, and they go in violently like, maltene, it should be automatically done; I understand what the law means, but they're illegal there. It's illegal out there, so they'd head-to-head me to get me into somebody's illegal, just like they're in power. Then what kind of power are we? We need to lose power, give them power, let them all... A alliance of communists that it's SDP. And he deserved it when we don't touch them, so they believe they deserve it. I ask that this issue be resolved, there is a Parliament's decision, and the State Property Act, when adopted, will be passed, and however it cannot wait, can't wait for this, this should be resolved as a priority. And I'm going to ask again today when there are parliamentary questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20217	Thank you. Dear Representative Novaković, is the response comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, first of all, I congratulate the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the virtuosity in the conclusion of this response and, of course, the Council of Ministers on not reading this response since they probably read it so they wouldn't send it to Parliament. Namely, I asked to be answered: Why isn't the Action Plan for the closure of the Bona Consulate and the opening of the BiH General Consulate in Frankfurt fulfilled? I received the answer that this is the opening plan; closing is not the opening of the General Consulate in Frankfurt from 1.6.2008. After that, the same response that was made on 24th and 24th, respectively, to this Parliament is said to have prepared a proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure on the Internal Organisation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs relating to the systematisation of posts at the General Consulate of Frankfurt and is the same in the adoption procedure. After obtaining these consents, staff will be appointed, i.e. to open this consulate. Of course, it is not difficult to establish that it is not open, the plan is not fulfilled, that the consulate is not open in Frankfurt, that we have a break between 1.6 and the day of opening this consulate where our citizens are practically without help in this part of Germany. That it's just amazing to make a plan, and when you realize part of it, then you make a rule and you determine how much that consulate will have in Frankfurt employees, and only then does it still mean that the plan that you've realized only then determines, you determine those elements. I must say, as I have said many times, by dealing with this issue here in Parliament, and this response shows in fact the seriousness that the BiH Presidency and the Foreign Ministry have dealt with in rationalising the diplomatic and consular network. Unfortunately, this indifference continues and we continue to see what happens to the appointment of our people to Washington, Brussels, etc., etc. 17 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20219	Thank you. No more reported for comments received. For asking questions, I'm going to ask you, now I see you one five, six, so I don't bid on who first, who the other answered, to attempt electronic applications, I already have applications. So now I'm going to read in order. Honorable representative Slavko Jovičić, let Zlatko Lagumdžija be prepared, then Lazar Prodanović, and Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20220	Dear Chairman, honourable representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of NGOs, the media, ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I wish I didn't ask these questions, but I announced so, because I don't even get partial answers, and it's a matter of returning property to the Serbian Orthodox Church and I said, of course, I include here and all other religious communities if there are such cases. I'm asking a question. I just don't know who else. Will the next term of office, sometime or never begin to return to the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church? Because we see that the Interreligious Council has produced some results and gives hope for this country, at least in creating trust among the nations. But it cannot happen if the vast property of the Serbian Orthodox Church, right here in Sarajevo, is not returned to any object, no plot of land, although it is not possible to find a way of compensation etc., etc. But I don't know who I'm gonna ask anymore, who's in charge, but I'm staying with that question. Of course, the second question I've been asking since Parliament's 2nd session, and I don't know who's going to do it anymore, and if it's possible, and it is. When will the consistency of the people in BiH institutions be respected, so in all: from agencies, ministries, parliament, the Presidency and all those representing the state? Because we cannot move forward in respect of these rights of the constituent people in the area of the local community, the municipality, if this state does not respect it at the level of its institutions. That's why I'm saying, I'm staying with these questions, but I don't know who to ask them anymore, because it looks like no one wants to do it. But at least because of the stenograms of this session, because of the public, I want to say it's not okay, it's not fair that we're looking for other solutions, and we have to look everywhere, but we have to start by ourselves, from the state level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20221	Thank you. 18 The next is the esteemed representative of Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20222	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. On several occasions in the last year, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly and the competent committees have reached conclusions that oblige the competent institutions to do whatever is necessary to bring the case to an end, in accordance with the law and interests of the state and its citizens, so-called. Algerian groups that were deported and requested to be provided under the supervision of SFOR, i.e. the United States on 17 January 2002. On my proposal, the House of Representatives committed almost two years ago the state institutions to, quote: 'Accesses to the construction and realization of the Roadmap for the return of citizens of BiH from Guantanamo', i.e. committed... to ending this case in a fair way in cooperation with the competent institutions of the United States and to protect the interests of the citizens of BiH. I have managed the motives with which I have presented to Parliament such conclusions, as well as the very conclusions of the House of Representatives, for the past years I have been working with the American lawyers of the six so that the truth and the fair end of this case can become more effective. Regardless of the various misinformations and attacks I've been exposed to, I haven't looked back on it, nor have I talked publicly about co-operation with lawyers, because I felt that in the interests of the state and its citizens, the most important thing is that the whole case ends with the release or judgment of the competent court, and not that public controversy is being conducted that can make it difficult or even make it impossible for us to get to the truth and justice. In addition, the key decisions of this Parliament that I have initiated have forced me to co-operate that would lead to a solution to this case, not to its politicisation. These days, the process of handing evidence to the U.S. court is being conducted. That is why all those institutions and individuals considered mandatory or who want to participate in the realization of Parliament's conclusions on this matter are obliged to deliver the necessary evidence to American lawyers. With all that in mind, I Hall agreed to provide my written statement as a witness to be used in the Wilmer trial. So I agreed to testify at the evidence hearing if it would be useful for this case to lead to a final, true and fair conclusion, and to protect the rights of people who are before the court and the rights of their families in BiH. You know, last week, the U.S. court rejected a request... that would oblige me to testify as a witness. In spite of that, I reaffirmed to the lawyers and then to the public that, although the US court does not demand, I am prepared to give a witness whether or not I have any immunity that would spare me any testimony. Last week, the competent institution is American, and I am pleased that the minister of justice is sitting here, through the foreign ministry, asking the question: Is there any question about giving evidence from me as a witness that the BiH government would like to consider with the United States, that is, what is BiH's general legal position regarding my possible testimony before the US court in this process? On this occasion, the minister of justice knows this well, the question: Does the BiH government object if I offer a written statement about my findings that could be used in this trial? The US government also expressed its gratitude – it is a question – if it received a written response from our government by Wednesday 27 August 2008. As far as I know, the government didn't deliver it. 19 For all this, I ask first: Will the Council of Ministers answer these questions asked by the Government of the United States and who I have asked and done all that results from the conclusions of the House of Representatives and other relevant institutions? The second question to the Council of Ministers is the same issue that came from the US government with a request to answer them by 27.8 this year. The third question I ask to be answered in seven days at the latest, and the minister will understand why in seven days, is: Does the Council of Ministers or any other competent institution object to testify, or testify before the US court about the events of late 2001 and early 2002? I hereby also inform the Minister and the Council of Ministers and Parliament, as well as all institutions that have constitutional and legal position in this case; whether or not, within a period of seven days, I do not get an answer or any prohibition – I do not think there are any obstacles, and that I will give my testimony properly at the request of the American lawyers concerned. And the fourth question: When and how will the government of BiH and the competent institutions respond to the public call of US attorneys of the firm Wilmer Hall to do what I do and to put into account the evidence they possess and which of them are required regarding the arrests, and... the release and deportation of their clients from BiH? I am writing this because for the next few weeks it is of paramount importance for the legal team, and I again underline that this obligation stemmed from the conclusions of this Parliament and other state institutions. Finally, I call once again on the Council of Ministers to answer these questions urgently, because otherwise they can significantly make it difficult or slow or even make it impossible to come to the truth and justice in this case. I'm taking another chance to ask you, if you haven't answered the U.S. government by August 27th as it is asked of you, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, that if you don't respond within seven days, I will consider that there are no obstacles to giving a statement in the personal capacity that I am going to keep silent by the Council of Ministers will mean nothing more than approval at least to go on, for those who want to, and they will do what they have to do and I don't doubt it myself. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20223	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20224	Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers! My question has been addressed to the Minister of Security at the Council of Ministers and it says: 20 How many cases have been discovered in BiH during the first six months of this year? So, the SIPA Money Laundering Prevention Department, how many cases have been discovered, what are the amounts and for what purposes have these funds been illegally acquired, or invested in the past? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20225	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20226	...and this is how I'm gonna do it by the end of my term. When will the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the conclusion of this Parliament, and a series of answers to my parliamentary questions, register and pass a law on the seized property of the former Communist Union, which the SDP illegally adopted, usurped, robbed, and used and rented? Reason: In response to my parliamentary questions about the robbery and kidnapping of state property by the SDP, the Alipasino estate is seen as registered in the ZK ul. LIV DSM... k.o. Sarajevo, owned by BiH, called the housing and courtyard, total area of 4,834 m2, is registered as the state, state property with the right to use to build a business building of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, the CK Alliance of Communists in Sarajevo. And in... 90 k.o. The centre of Sarajevo 7 families. 428/1 houses and buildings as the owner were registered with the Central Committee of the Alliance of Communists of BiH. In view of the state of registration in the public books of land and catastra, it is apparent that SDP is not the holder of property rights, nor is it the owner of the property concerned because it is not registered in public books. It is evident that this is the largest kidnapping and robbery of state property by the SDP and greater than any criminal privatisation. As the answer shows, all the assets of the former Alliance of Communists that the SDP illegally took, usurped all over BiH, and there are also in Bihaq, and in Kladusa, both in other cities and outside of it, and is being led as "d.s" – the social property given to the use of the Alliance of Communists. So, before the war, the Union of Communists couldn't register it on itself because it was state property. So neither does the current SDP under the law have any right to use, to dispose, let alone rent state property. I ask the Council of Ministers to settle this matter urgently, to return the property to the state, and to take away all the funds that she illegally received from the lease, with tight interest. I also propose to the SDP, before the law on state property is passed and is delegated, to return the usurped property to the real owners, which are BiH institutions and let them have and use it, for example, in the interest of all citizens, because it is illogical for the BiH state to use the institution to pay cca 20 million KM for its assets. Thus, the SDP now illegally collects millions of figures and is in a privileged position compared to other political parties, and their leader behaves arrogantly and eloquently by spending people's money, visiting the world's metropolis at the expense of BiH citizens. Where is morale, and where is the rule of law when such things allow? And this time in America he went to the expense of the people of these couples. That's it, thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20227	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Snježana Rajilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, members of the Council of Ministers, I have two questions and they refer to the same institution. In fact, in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly over the past year and a half, a debate on a single institution has been conducted very often, which is BHT1. Since we can't agree and there's no movement on this facility, I'm going to ask two questions. First of all, I ask the Management Board and BHT1 management to provide me with a report on the cost of the funds collected from the sale of cards for the use of the BHT1 satellite programme in 2006 and 2007. You know that the law regulates that these funds cannot be used for purposes relating to, as is said, earthly, or domestic production, and here I am saying that there may be such a possibility that this could have happened in such a way that it would have asked for a comprehensive report. And two. In the last ten days, BiH, at least in media writings, has been covered by a event to be held in Sarajevo. I will not comment on the definitions of certain groups in BiH about the way they live, the way they live, the private life, or the way they're committed in terms of birth, but I am still interested, since it was in bh. TV media is suggesting that BHT1 should be the sponsor, i.e. the main information vehicle of the activity on the demonstration of this event. I ask that answer, and he means this is the question: I ask the Board of Directors and BHT1 management to provide me with an urgent answer whether BHT1 is the general informative sponsor of the event whose organizers are members of the Queer Association, i.e. the event, as we call it, the Gay Association? I'd like to request this immediately before that event. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20229	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20230	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have one parliamentary initiative and one parliamentary question for the day. The parliamentary initiative is addressed to the Council of Ministers and concerns the taking of the necessary actions and signing of the Istanbul Convention on the Temporary Entry of Goods adopted by the World Customs Organisation in 1990 and which took effect in 1993 and progressively replaces the earlier ATA Convention of 1961. 22 There is an explanation in this written initiative. I will just say that this convention allows for the application of ATA carnets which implies a number of customs reliefs in crossing certain goods across the border and I do not understand why this Convention has not been signed so far. I refer the parliamentary question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Foreign Affairs, and the question is: What are the reasons for the selective response of the Council of Ministers and the Resoring Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the protection of the property of BiH, its citizens and companies outside BiH? Why is the protest note in this direction not addressed to the Republic of Croatia when the assets of BiH, its companies and its citizens are adopted daily and who will be responsible for the damages caused by the indolent and selective relationship of the BiH state authorities against the protection of this property? A brief explanation: As an MP on this issue, I have on several occasions asked a question and addressed initiatives, and I rejoiced when, on my initiative, a note was sent to the Republic of Serbia, the result of which was the suspension of the activity in carrying out the tender for the sale of BiH property in Serbia. Not long after that, I was disappointed to know that the protest note was not sent to the Republic of Croatia which continues its daily acquisition of BiH's assets in Croatia. I would like to inform you that in a criminal procedure, whose actors are criminals and the judiciary of the Republic of Croatia and the management of AgroComerco velik Kladuša, this firm on Friday, 5.9.2008, due to its basic debt of 70.030 kuna, remains without the property of 450 m2 square business space in the Zagreb Business Tower, which is estimated at 12.260.907 kuna or around 1.8m euros. This is about a completely illegal property procedure that enters under the treatment of the Treaty of Succession. If BiH is left without this property, I personally consider the Council of Ministers and Resort Ministry of Foreign Affairs responsible, which, even after more warning, did nothing to protect this property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20231	I thank the honourable representative. The next is Remzija Kadrić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20232	I thank you, Chairman. I have one question that I ask the Council of Ministers, which reads: The BiH Constitutional Court declared by its third Partial Decision in Case No 5/98 of 30 June and 1 July 2000 (‘the Official Messenger of BiH’, No 23/2000 of 14 September 2000), certain provisions of the Federation of BiH Constitution and Republika Srpska unconstitutional because the denial of not only civil but also national rights and the rights of national minorities and others throughout BiH constitute a clear violation of the right to non-discrimination. Under that decision, the Constitution of the BiH Constitutional Court has been amended by the Constitution of the Federation and the RS and the prescribed commitment to the proportionate representation of the constituent peoples and members of the national minorities in the public 23 institutions, according to the 1991 census until the full implementation of the Annex VII Dayton Agreement. In this regard, I ask the Council of Ministers to provide me with full information on how many entities have so far implemented the constitutional court's decision and the provisions of their constitutions on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20233	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20234	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, my question has been addressed to the BiH Minister of Communications and Transport. The question is: Why did the Ministry not remove a single... discriminatory memo by officials of the Ministry of Communications and Transport sent to the International Postal Union in Bern, which is only one operator, this is the BH post office, given the position to represent BiH in the International Union for Postal Traffic? This has caused great damage to all BiH because all the data in the last two years that have been delivered to the International Postal Union are related to one postal operator, you know that we have three, on the country of BiH that has the total area as it has and the number of inhabitants as it has and on this basis, I only take that data, in the International Post Office, is a completely wrong picture of postal traffic issues in BiH. I say once again, he left the Ministry's memo of officials, unauthorized, past the regular procedure. It was pointed out, and it was an opportunity to remove this discriminatory relationship with the other two postal operators from a regular memo to be sent from the Ministry of Communications and Transport, in line with the Law on Post Offices in BiH, which adopted the parliament. With the question why it hasn't been done so far, it's my suggestion to do it now. The consequences of all this came to an end only last month's regular conference, a four-year Post Office conference where it was once again shown, as a result of this failure of BiH was not properly presented.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20235	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20236	I am sorry that at this point there are no ministers in the BiH Council of Ministers' Hall because, first of all, I wanted to ask the chairman or one of the ministers to explain to me: what are the reasons why the Council of Ministers gives express answers to the issues related to the 24 issues of the Communist Union and does not give almost no answers regarding the issue of the European Union? I can understand that the people of the Council of Ministers have more experience and knowledge about the Alliance of Communists and the Alliance of Communists than the European Union, but I cannot really understand how it is possible for them to violate this parliament's decisions so harshly. I therefore ask the question: Why does the Council of Ministers of BiH not approach the implementation of point 3 of resolution on the acceleration of the BiH accession process for the European Union, which is published in Official Messenger of BiH 25/08? I would like to remind you that the BiH Council of Ministers was immediately required to approach a clear definition of the plan for implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, that it has not yet done so. Today we have proposed a agenda item to adopt a conclusion that would force them to do so again, however, as we have seen, with the votes of MPs, today from the Federation, something like this has not passed. The next question is: Why has the BiH Council of Ministers not yet respected the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives which has been obliged by the BiH Council of Ministers to draft and deliver this strategy to the BiH Parliament? I asked this question in writing. In the last session, I set up a direct premiere, and in one version and another, I didn't get an answer. The only thing I have left to call you, the chairman, is to consider how to respect Article 155. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, since it is the conclusions of Parliament which the executive authority does not implement! Does the chairman think there is no corruption in this country so he does not need such a strategy or does he not want to implement Parliament's decisions? Whatever these two cases are, it's not good. And a third question to the justice ministry and the human rights ministry: What exactly did they do in 2008 to help an illegally arrested BiH citizen, Ilija Jurišić, who has been in prison for almost a year and a half in Belgrade? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20237	Thank you. Next is the distinguished representative Slavko Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20238	Since the proposal for a conclusion, which would enter into the agenda in the light of the review of the Central Election Commission's decision, has not been adopted recently, I will try to resolve the part through the parliamentary issue or at least request further clarification of such a decision. My question is: What reasons has the Central Election Commission of BiH been under the leadership of the decision to challenge the electoral right for thousands of BiH exiles who, with the same documentation submitted for local elections, were they able to vote in the 2006 general elections? 25 As is also known from the media for the majority of those who are challenged by the electoral right for local elections, it is mainly the reason that the Census of Citizenship, which is not valid, is issued in Slavonski Brod. In recent days, at least a dozen people contacted me directly and confirmed to me that they voted with the same conviction in 2006. Why is such a belief insufficient this time, why is it not valid, these are probably the least guilty persecutors themselves? As is known, such beliefs have been issued in the offices of the exiles' associations in Slavonski Brod, based on legal and valid parent books of the Municipality of Dervent and Bosanski Brod. Why aren't those books in Derventa and Brod? This is certainly not the fault of those who are challenged by electoral law, such as not guilty of being expelled in 1992, nor did this country and all others allow them to return from 1995 to 2008. Today, through this decision of the Central Election Commission, it is clear that, at the end of all, the whole tragedy or the farce, as the angle is seen, it is intended to say that they are not even citizens of BiH anymore because after such a decision by the Central Election Commission, they are told to take out the CIPS's personal and that they will be able to vote. For me, such an interpretation of the Electoral Law is very radical because it was not said anywhere that the CIPS is a personal imperative condition for someone to vote on. Isn't it enough that someone is a BiH citizen and is an adult? That's always been enough. I don't know why it's not enough for local elections. As a minimum of goodwill from the Central Election Commission, I really expect, for the correction of such injustice, at least a review of the decision they have already made and I ask Parliament's expert services to deliver this issue, for the sake of actuality, as soon as possible before the Central Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20239	I thank the honourable representative. The next is the second deputy president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20240	Thank you, Chairman. The parliamentary question was addressed to the foreign minister. Namely, in contact with embassies and visiting other countries, we were asked - why BiH violates international law by not applying the agreements it accepted during the collapse of the Federal Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I wonder: Does BiH violate international law, can it unilaterally interrupt them, and what seems to be the practice in BiH to stop happening daily? And on the other hand, as Mr Matić said, also given that our proposal did not pass to be the point of the agenda of putting the conclusion and making of the Council of Ministers' decision to start preparations for the census, I am starting the initiative to follow the current practice of launching the initiative here in our home to the commission, the committee responsible: 'The initiative of the Council of Ministers and Statistics of BiH on the upcoming list'. You have today's session, delivered to all MPs when we also delivered the proposal for a conclusion. I think the subject in this paragraph must come to the agenda. We must not close our eyes before something that is over by the end of this year – if we do not discuss it, we will draw any conclusion, we will waste valuable time to do anything about it at all. 26 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20241	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20242	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have one short question for the Directorate for European Integration, the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is: At which stage is the implementation of the Protocol on Co-operation in the field of European Integration, signed in May 2005, between Slovakia and BiH, and the Protocol envisioned the achievement of contacts between experts from the two foreign ministries with the aim of transferring Slovakia's experiences in the accession process to the European Union? Yesterday, as a member of the Foreign Affairs Commission, in a conversation with the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission of Slovakia, we received information that Slovakia has hired in the process of bringing Slovakia's legislation into line with the EU legislation of 1,200 state officials and that the Slovak country that is ready, through the Development Co-operation Agreement between Slovakia and BiH, to help BiH bring legislation into line with EU legislation, so that this issue actually concerned the protocol and the phase of its realization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20243	Mr. Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20244	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20245	Well, you signed up.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20246	I have one initiative for competent institutions. I propose that a quick signing of the 'Double Taxation Treaty' with all countries where the Bosnian-Herzegovina economy has business activities, such as the Republic of Macedonia, Austria, in which the Bosnian-Herzegovina economy has opportunities for large business activities, but is largely preventing them from having 'Double Taxation Treaty'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20247	Mr. Kalabić. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20248	My question is addressed to the Commission for the Conservation of National Cultural Monuments: I am asking for a full report on the work of the Commission for the Conservation of National Cultural Monuments, with particular emphasis on the status of employees in the Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments, who gave an opinion on the Internal Organisation Regulation, how many permanent employees, how much is under contract and whether the BiH Presidency's views are respected that the Regulation adopts the Council of Ministers? How much money has been used from the budget per year since the founding, how much from the donations? Who has concluded a contract with the Commission and how much funds have they taken on the basis of the Commission's members, what is the salary of the President of the Commission, and how many are the members of the Commission? More and more public information is withdrawing that this commission, based on Annex VIII, has emerged from its mandate of action and has begun to deal with politics, even in the context of international relations, and I think this parliament should deal with it, but we want to complete this report to win and then we will see further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20249	I've still got a registered report here by Adem Huskić, and I'm out. Has anyone skipped and had any more needs? If not, go ahead, Mr. Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to ask a very short question and it concerns media inscriptions that have been quite frequent in the last ten days. I failed to answer what was true, so I ask the Council of Ministers: Who owns it and based on what documents of the "Bosnian" villa in Belgrade? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20251	This way we've exhausted point 2. We're going to the point. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) 28 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20255	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, here, before my word is taken, I'll say a few words. Due to the municipal elections held over the next month was the aim of this law, I was given suggestions from fellow Živković that this would be a little difficult due to the existing law which in some ways limits the adoption of changes before the elections. I appreciate the suggestion, but here, I will try, if we adopt this today, until the next session to go with an additional amendment that and regulate it to correct the prevention of the implementation of this law, so that it can change that in exceptional situations, when necessary, we can bring amendments to the Election Law if it does not affect the election process significantly, which is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20256	Thank you. Are there any reports of a hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20257	If I could just make one suggestion?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20258	We're crossing.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20259	No microphone 29 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20260	We've got procedure, take it easy. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. The request of MP Jerko Ivanković Lijanović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconciliation of Obligations on the basis of the account of the old foreign exchange savings under the hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure And this legislative proposal by MP Jerko Ivanković Lijanović submitted on September 1st. It also requires an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 127. The Rules of Procedure and we're discussing a request for an emergency procedure. Is there any need to explain the request? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20262	Dear President, colleagues and fellow representatives, distinguished guests, these people have been waiting for the return of the old foreign currency savings for 18 years and I think it is a very urgent issue that we should address in their own interest, as well as in the interest of the BiH state, because there are seven thousand lawsuits before the International Court of Justice in Strasbourg against the state of BiH worth more than a billion KM. We already have the first lawsuits to be settled and which people had to be paid off. And if we don't pass one of these laws, if we happen to get these lawsuits settled in the coming months by New Year's, then next year BiH can come into a complete economic collapse, because if a billion marks are dropped on the bill, and according to the court's rulings, it falls immediately on the charge, we will have unspeakable consequences. For this reason, I believe that this should be adopted today in accordance with Article 127. I think it would be good to vote immediately on the procedure, so that we can open a debate on this subject and then leave the vote on this law at the end, as we do in practice with all the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20263	Thank you. In practice, we express ourselves on all the points of the agenda at the end of the session, and we will do so today. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda. _________(?) 30 [[no microphone turned on]] Debate on the request. Are there any reports? I don't have any IDs here and I'm looking at these electronics. Are there any reports of a hearing? Here, dear representative Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20265	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, this is a very important topic and it really deserves this assembly to take a stand on this issue again. I wouldn't be spreading much, but I support what Mr. Lijanović said, because the question is serious. And I'd just like to remind you that we were discussing this topic, that the Council of Ministers in the first quote said that I couldn't cut deadlines, we reached conclusions after the Association of Old Foreign Savings asked for a compromise, we cut their deadlines, and then everything else was on paper. And we really should see, if all these lawsuits start, if interest is charged, then we'll come into one awkward position both us and the Council of Ministers, especially with a large number of citizens. I suggest we support this and give the Council of Ministers to re-explanation until they arrive, what about the deadlines, how much they've paid and to make an annuity and plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20266	Thank you. Dear Representative Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20267	Mr. Chairman, I would like to remind the MPs that two homes have formed a joint committee that should come out with a single report. That report will be delivered to you by the end of this month. Just so you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20268	Thank you. Honorable representative Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20269	Your Honor, I only want one dilemma here to explain. I have a feeling that it's not clear to some, especially the pressure of foreign savings, whose side I've been on since the beginning. There is no danger for BiH that the Strasbourg Court will pass some rulings, which would put us in an unfavourable position. We would only have consequences if we didn't have this law, if BiH didn't have this law on returning old foreign currency savings, then BiH would be in the situation people are talking about. But now I'm asking, "What's wrong with us now?" To preserve BiH and not come to an economic collapse if this would be accepted!? Can we accept that? I don't think we can, that... a rational solution. 31 The second thing, you see that Republika Srpska's entity has asked for only the registration of foreign savings and has already returned funds for several thousand of those foreign savings that have had fewer amounts. What do I mean by that? We can't have every session, second or third, these questions and make problems for ourselves anymore. We were on the side of old foreign savings, looking for opportunities, finding the best way to meet them. Of course, he will never be satisfied and I agree with that, but can we be satisfied and bring BiH to bankruptcy. We can't. So, the point is, and no one needs to freak us out with strazbura because we have the law and the court everyone will respect the law of that home country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20270	Thank you. Dear Representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20271	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20272	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20273	Well, I just want to remind my colleague Jovičić that we also have in practice that we have the same parliamentary issues at each session. I don't see why we shouldn't have the same laws. I suppose someone will get serious about answering Mr. Jovičić's parliamentary questions but also get serious about solving these problems which, unfortunately, must be repeated from session to session, both this law and the next law and I don't know any more. So we should not be afraid to discuss these questions. I don't see why we shouldn't talk. Of course, the result of these conversations, each of us will be committed to the result, but in any case any conversation on this issue may in some way help.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20274	Thank you. Dear Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20275	I would like to say, through replica, that this law will not bring BiH into collapse. So foreign savings have no interest in bringing the country into collapse, but only the minimum of justice to be applied to them. Imagine people who have been waiting 18 years for their money to be paid by the state. After 18 years, the Court of Justice's verdict in Strasbourg has even cost 4000 euros in compensation for the pain caused by waiting for the money. And we now need to ignore one such condition. This law just wants to avoid the verification of that savings, because the law failed. Only 3% has been verified, even so much, of old foreign savings and a large number of those people who have now ratified 32 are asking that these contracts be broken, because they're kind of cheated, because that verification is not what the court assigned them. And it is our duty to respect and implement the decisions of that court. Just one example of how our domestic judiciary treated these people. So, the lawsuits that were filed long ago in front of our courts, people got the answer to point them to the verification of old foreign currency savings, and then by law we know they're going to get a little money, that they're going to get some papers from the BiH state, and we know how the people ended up with the ones who got the papers. And in that same letter, they tell them, I'll just read the last quote: "If you don't respond to this call within that time limit, we'll think you've given up your request for verification, that is, to the appeal request." So they're being pointed out that if they don't verify they won't be able to sue them, which is classic manipulation, because judgments before the Court of Justice say so. For that reason, I don't think we should ignore this situation. In the coming year, we will really have a collapse if we ignore it, because it will drop a billion marks on the burden of paying BiH. If we pass this law, then we'll settle our obligations to people who accept that within five years, in proportion to our country's capabilities, it settles and I think that's the solution. Thank you. NO ONE
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20276	"Thank you. Honorable representative Jovičić: reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20277	So you don't get the wrong impression that it's me and that I'm putting foreign money on my back or else, God Bog, the political option that I belong to, so we're for this to come back to people. But I say what are the modals. About these lawsuits, which Mr. Lijanović is saying, so these were the lawsuits that contributed to those people who complained until there was no law. Now we have the law. And another thing, does anyone remember what we once concluded here? That we will no longer have a debate on any item of the agenda unless we have the Council of Ministers' position. We had their attitude. They made it clear which way, as possible, we won it. I don't mind that we have this subject all the time but that my friend doesn't get me wrong, Lijanović, I don't want anyone to use this... in this particular month, because it's electoral. Well, here, like someone wants to come back, and like me, I don't give! Who, I don't give, which I don't give. If there's money, let's go back today; if there's a chance, let's go back today. Can the Ministry of Finance go out here to Parliament and say, "We can get that back in a year." Is there money, where is it? So these are possibilities. We can't play with the people, we can promise them, so we can draw anger on Parliament, so just like that case where I've really suffered the serious consequences of whether or not someone here is going to get in with the explosives, blow up, I don't know, you remember that whole crowd. So we want to help these people. What's the way? Who's going to suggest the best way and the possibility of coming back? I stand up, so I'm in one session, when this theme was,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20278	Time! 33
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20279	Here I am ending, proposing whether BiH can enter a dispute with the Ljubljanska Banka and with Slovenia!? Let's see how much they owe us, so let's get back one piece of the foreign savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20280	I don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the fifth point, Ad. 5. The request of representative Jerka Ivanković Lijanović for consideration of the proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure Also, on September 1st, MP Jerko Ivanković Lijanović re-delivered the draft law on the protection of domestic production, with a request for a quick procedure. I'm opening a debate on the request. Does the motioner want to explain the demands? Proposer Jerko Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20282	Dear President, colleagues and fellow representatives, distinguished guests, we have been having a debate in this house for a year about our external trade deficit, we are having a debate on the state of production in BiH, we are having a debate on what with our unemployed and who are 40%, what with the small salaries of those who do, what with small pensions, what with poor health, and all because we have no money. For that reason, I find the urgency of this law very important. While we were resting last month, the deficit in BiH increased by a billion marks. And as the indicators now say, this year we're going to get to a record 10 billion marks, although two years ago, there was thinking that the 6 billion-billion deficit should be reduced because it was very large, and now it's increased to 10 billion marks. And imagine how we're covering that deficit now? We also had this report from the Central Bank, which makes it clear to us that we are covered by this deficit: we will cover 20% of our refugees. So we let refugees save our incompetence! And on the other hand, 80% of that deficit will be covered by the duties of our citizens and the duties of economic operators. Instead of providing citizens with jobs, providing salaries, filling out health and pension funds, having quality pensions, quality health care, and that these people can save something for old days or for some investments, we have put them in a position not to have a job, that those who do have small salaries and that they have to raise loans to survive their families and thus cover our incompetence, or indemnity, or here I don't know what words I would use for the situation where we are. 34 It is evident that this deficit and that 30% of the damage applies to the two neighbouring countries with which we once had an exchange, while we were in the common state, even in favour of BiH. BiH had a surplus in the foreign trade balance and so our citizens could save, they could support their families 20 years ago, and now we brought them here so they couldn't. This surplus specifically refers to agriculture as one specific area in which each country has specific regulations for it, in which each country has specific measures, special means to improve the area. In recent years, farmers have been instructed to go to entities, that entities will provide them with incentives and that this problem will be resolved. So we here want to delegate responsibility somewhere else. I don't think it's right, and it's not right to tell Mr. Dodik and Mr. Branković people from here and tell them to give them the money, let them solve your problems, and there's no money there, because we're in charge here to raise money. So we didn't raise the money, but we're ready to say - go to the entities, you'll get the money! I think it's correct that through one of these laws we provide additional money so that entities can improve the state that it is, but also a little bit stop the pressure that comes to us especially from those two neighbouring countries and, in such a way, by a combined method, essentially solve this problem. And here I suggest, if that's what you want, let's make a statement about the procedure right now and open the debate, because if there's any debate left for tonight, I'm afraid we'll be staying here tonight by midnight or we'll have to interrupt the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20283	Thank you. Dear Representative Suljkanović first reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20284	Mr Jerko Lijanović, the MP at the House of Representatives and the second Vice-President of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, met at the 24th session of the Commission, held on 1 September 2008, that he was present again at the House of Representatives in 1st September 2008, in the parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Domestic Production, with a proposal to consider it by emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 127. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. I here want to state the Commission's position which was unanimous. Given all that has been happening so far with the proposals of this law and wanting to end this farce that the Commission does not support this proposal and the Commission has on several occasions tried to initiate support in the direction of stimulation and protection of domestic agricultural production through the reduction of customs rates and excise duties but so far from competent institutions, i.e. The BiH Council of Ministers, the Management Board of the Directorate for Direct Taxation and Resolute Ministries, had no results. The CEFTA and the EU's Stabilisation and Association Agreement to BiH have been found to have significantly worsened the situation and threatened production, both in the area of agriculture and in the economy, and the BiH Council of Ministers has not adopted safeguards in this direction. 35 The Commission concluded that, as soon as possible, a meeting was held with the members of the College of Representatives' House, the chair and vice-presidents of the BiH Council of Ministers, the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the Chairman, the Vice-President of the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission, and attempted to arrange for the finding of mechanisms in the direction of the Council of Ministers' action – the programme and adoption of decisions on safeguard measures for disturbances in the BiH market which is evident. I note that at the 32nd session, held on 9 and 14 July 2008, the House of Representatives also discussed, in a second reading, the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Domestic Production and adopted and delivered a conclusion that formulated the obligations of the BiH Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. What I pointed out at the outset, the Commission is asking in this case for the help of the House of Representatives' Colleges to organise a meeting with those present here, especially because of the fact that the last meeting saw a change in a rather rigid position of officials at the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Customs. In fact, there are now views that it is possible to implement appropriate safeguards, that this does not have to be done through the law, but that there is a possibility that the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Resort Ministry, will make an appropriate contribution to the resolution of this highly acute issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20285	Thank you. We're discussing a request for an emergency procedure. Honorable representative Okolić, then distinguished representative Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20286	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the deputy, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members, representatives of the Council of Ministers, international organisations, NGOs, means of information and dear guests! Look, this is a subject that has already appeared several times in this home, and it can immediately be concluded by a healthy logic that something is wrong, or that it should be reacted in some way, if the same topic is discussed on several occasions without success, they make some decisions and conclusions, then something should be done more radically. Here, I would refer to the discussion of a previous colleague who said and pointed out in fact that the Commission is proposing and doing what this home was once long ago, and not long ago, in the light of the decision made, where it was said that the competent ministry was, in fact, to adopt a programme of measures to protect domestic production. Where we have never received that answer, or have never seen this plan of measures to protect domestic production. It can be seen that this problem is not taken seriously, which is certainly evident and burning, and that there are no competent or, rather, a resolute ministry of some kind of initiative. And that is why today we will support this bill in this process, not because we think that this is a good and ideal solution but because we believe that if we support it today, we can – if not through this kind of proposal if it goes through this procedure today and further goes into the next procedure – improve something from this area. If not, then we will at least extort, hopefully, after all these discussions on this topic of the 36-resolute ministry to finally provide us with a programme of measures to protect domestic production that certainly our economy and our citizens are expecting. I think after these discussions of ours and after discussing this item of the agenda, it will bear fruit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20287	Thank you. Dear Representative Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20288	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, I will state my position that the laws under points 3, 4 and 5 do not meet the requirements of urgency, the laws of high-level urgency, and they are not according to their content such that they can be adopted in an emergency procedure. This is a persistent repetition and the introduction of customs into this parliament to avoid the Council of Ministers and competent committees and that the laws whose consequences are far-reaching decisions are without sufficient arguments so that MPs can make uninterrupted decisions, which, in my opinion, is different for the laws under the 4th and 5th, which, in the ordinary procedure, can, of course, be considered whenever any of the legislators let them into the procedure, but the law under point 3 of the BiH budget, embarrasss all of us and discusses the payment of the right to vote is shameful and we thought that we had survived this shame once. But here, we keep getting dragged into this one game that is without the same example in the whole world. And I suggest that you in the Enlarged College try to interpret this Rules of Procedure a little bit more closely, so that it is not whatever it is you think of, but to make us more responsible and at least about these things that are absolutely unorthodox and inappropriate to this House to stand up to, and to direct all other promoters into a shortened or regular procedure. Finally, I would say: the next Council of Ministers law is absolutely for an emergency procedure where in one article, compliance with European standards is referred to in a shortened procedure. And can we see how different that approach is in that responsibility and, as a general rule, everything that's urgent carries the risk of making a mistake? And I suggest that today we adopt this law under 3 by emergency procedure and immediately dismiss it as quickly as possible, and this 4th and 5th, I suggest that we go into the regular procedure and re-analyze the Council of Ministers and the committees in charge and see what is to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20289	Thank you. And no more reports? Replica, the esteemed representative Lijanović, another replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20290	A kolega Jašarević opposed it last time. Why? I have the right to propose one of these laws. And last time he called the College why he allowed proposals like this to come on the agenda. I don't know what my colleague Jašarević is afraid of, which is why he's afraid of discussing such a very important issue for the citizens of this country, which leaves them without a basic existence, without a job, without receiving, which is causing incomprehensible damage to this country. And here we have sworn to defend the Constitution and the interests of this country. So this law, this law has received support in the Federation Parliament, both 37 homes, and we have received all the demands of both the Houses of the Federation to pass one law, because people cannot solve the incentives of farmers because they have no money. We received an appeal a few months ago from both the Houses of the Federation – help us, we cannot endure this situation! A kolega, Jašarević, comes from Tuzla Canton. The Tuzlan Assembly unanimously made a decision and urged all MPs in the state parliament to urgently pass such a law because the Tuzlan government cannot solve the problem of farmers because there is not enough money. If someone had said this from the RS, I would say - well, they didn't have an appeal at least for something like this. But when a man from Tuzla canton whose government sent an appeal, from the Federation whose both homes sent an appeal to adopt something like this, it just worries me.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20291	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20292	And I hope that there won't be any other colleagues, is that such an attitude but that we will do something, and I would be happy that this never has to come to the agenda again, that this topic is neatly finished, that our citizens, especially farmers, can work and can live from their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20293	Dear Representative Jašarević: reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20294	Of course I'm not afraid of anything. If I was afraid, I'd be silent because it's the easiest thing to do. So, being afraid and silent is easier than talking. This is about the reintroduction of Parliament in inappropriate parliamentary procedures, and we must act equally as it tries and introduce these inappropriate customs. I'm not one of those people who'd really be inclined to make that call, and I'd like those with more parliamentary experience to do that. But the Tuzla Canton Assembly also showed how much of a hostage certain people think is enough to wish for something and that it can then be realized in reality. Those who think more responsibly know that this must be the subject of thorough analysis and that it can only be touched in the tax system of every country. Those who follow the economy, including the agriculture that the promoter constantly calls, must know that entities have to decide dominantly, whether we like it or not. And I have to say, and most of all, I'm afraid someone wants to pay for the election. So, it doesn't usually bother me, but it offends me that any parliament in the world has been doing what people have been fighting for since they became fighters or since they found out something could be chosen, going out for free with pride, dressing and swimming for the day when they usually take a very messy bath, we're asking today to be a date for 100 marks. I don't know what 100 marks, which isn't 200 marks, which isn't 1,000 marks, which is not 1,000 euros, which is not as much as getting those who are sick, those who are dying? That's why I didn't say in the context of business intervention, so I decided to discuss it, because someone has to, someone has to react. I am convinced that the future Rules of Procedure, and we will all do so, protect Parliament from this decision by emergency procedure, 38 when conditions are not met, when it is neither urgent nor simple to just decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20295	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20296	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20297	You used two replicas. The answer to the replica is like a replica. So, two, we got good records, I got records, so... We don't have any more charges to discuss. I'm closing the debate. Business intervention, a respected representative of Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20298	Mr. Chairman, although Mr. Jerko Ivanković Lijanović comes from an opposition party, I think we should allow him as well as MPs from the ruling parties to have the right to use what he writes in the Rules of Procedure. The man had one discussion, one replica and remains entitled to another replica. And I have to say here, I've reported to this business intervention that it seems rather strange to lecture Jerki Lijanović here on how to protect the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure, etc., and on so many big things this Parliament has embarrassed and some members of Parliament have shamed this institution completely, and this Parliament has not responded. So it would really be good if we tried to go in principle and try to go in order. And certainly also to the MPs of the opposition allow what belongs to them under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20299	Everything is possible according to the Rules of Procedure and I am the esteemed representative of Lijanović, when he reported for another replica, warned that his second replica, Here you can take a stenogram and look at it. So two replicas were used. I'm done. Listen, I'm keeping an eye on you, and I'm keeping track of you, and there's so much I can remember what anybody said and how many times they've come forward and I take care of it. For including the debate on this agenda point, I would like to remind you briefly that we planned to work today until 17.00 hours due to the religious obligations of a significant part of our colleagues and I ask you to bear in mind such a plan and to try to make your contribution to end today's session in that time period. But we'll be working till 5:00 whether we're done or not, but I think we can really end the agenda. 39 We move to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure On 30 July 2008, the Council of Ministers delivered the draft law from this point in the procedure, with the request to be considered under a shortened procedure. I'm opening a debate on the request. I don't have any charges to argue with. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda: Ad. Seven. A request from the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Alignment of Obligations on the basis of an old foreign savings account under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20304	Dear colleagues, I have again proposed six amendments to defend themselves at the House session, since they did not receive support in the commission phase. I find this law unnecessary. And that is why I have proposed to delete Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5; Articles... One, two, three, so five, six and seven. Why do I find it unnecessary? First of all, the reasons that the promoter has stated are not convincing enough, and no, this law and this text of this law does not guarantee in any way that these reasons will disappear by adopting this law. In fact, in the current procedure of proposing and awarding the distinctions in accordance with the existing law, there was no proposal, so that no distinction could be granted. The same promoters are now the new law or almost the same, only someone else is collecting proposals and processing, which basically means that since there has been no proposal so far, it will not be now or... it is not the one who collects the wrongs for not having been proposed. But, of course,... it's obviously some other reasons, so if you want and it reflects actually one overall atmosphere in BiH and this law, after all, shows everything that we can't agree on or why we're not all interested in. I therefore propose to the House to adopt these amendments and to keep the existing text of the law, which, once again, does not prevent the application of the provisions but simply others, others, are the reasons why so far this law has not delivered results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20305	I thank the honourable representative. No more reports. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, second vice-president.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20306	Thank you, Chairman. I let Mr. Novaković put his opinion first, given that he proposed the amendment. The SNSD did not have the need to make any additional amendments, given that in these 41 amendments, all those amendments we wanted to make were sublimed. We are also of the view that if this law has not been applied since 2003, and it has not been applied not because it is a bad law, but because it has not had the will and need to apply, it does not need to go to amendments and amendments to that law. It is said that no rules of procedure have been adopted, i.e. the rules on the allocation of appointments, the Presidency's budget is the budget as well as the BiH Parliament. This proposal proposes that the Ministry of Justice make a normal rule. Couldn't the Bureau's administration have made a regular rule in five years? I do not allow the law, nor this institution to be the main reason why this law has not been applied so far, but we consider it to be an unhappiness and irresponsibility in the Presidency. For this reason, we are not in favour of supporting these amendments and supplementing this law. I don't think Mr. Belkić had a bad intention, on the contrary. However, I do not want to be co-responsible in that the law and this parliament are the reasons for the lack of any distinction in BiH so far, but directly to the Presidency. We have not received any request from the Presidency, nor any objection that this law has not been applied for technical and legal reasons, they are not here today and, simply, we MPs, if we want to respect each other, we must also ask the Presidency and the Council of Ministers that when... they need us, they respect us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20307	Thank you. Dear Representative and Proposer: First Vice-President Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20308	Dear colleagues and colleagues, of course, I'm not surprised, but I want to convince all of you that it's not true that there were no reasons to change and supplement the device. I can agree that there's no such thing as trouble, there's no interest, etc. However, the argument of those who should have done certain things was going in the direction, if you can remember, of course, when there was a kind of public discussion about it – why not apply? The argument for the unhappiness and lack of initiative went in the direction of ambiguity and certain indetermination in this law. No one can dispute that, in the meantime, since the law was passed, certain changes have occurred and when it comes to the Ministry of Defence and the Standing Committee on Military Affairs and the particular competences of certain ministries, etc., which is treated in these amendments and additions. Of course, I have no intention here of any great persuasion to work in the direction of MPs who consider this unnecessary. Of course, for your conscience and conscience, go ahead and plead. I just want to explain that there was a need.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20309	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. 42 We move to point 10, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on bottled drinking waters (second reading) The bill was adopted at the 32nd session in the first reading. On 28 August, the Constitutional Commission submitted a Report on the Proposal for a Law. You saw from the report that there were no amendments to the bill. I'm opening a debate. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda: Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, with Opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget – Proposer: Representative Branko Dokić
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20312	Mr President, I would like to point out one fact from the previous session of this Parliament when this law has been withdrawn from the procedure, with the reason that it is necessary for the Management Board of indirect taxation to give its opinion, which is required by law, but not only that the Council of Ministers delivers detailed information to this House on the effects of introducing a differentiated rate and on the whole technique that should be implemented. And that's when I said in my explanation that we PDP are ready to withdraw our request in favour of a law like that that would suggest the Council of Ministers. At the last session of the Finance Commission and the budget formally accepted the position of the Management Board which gave a negative opinion, and I must say that their views were very, very smokeful, that they were not justified, that they were based on 'presumably, we have a feeling, someone was making an analysis', etc., etc. I think of one such institution as the Directorate for indirect taxation, which was to prepare, of course, the Management Board, that this is an irresponsible procedure. In particular, when there are facts here 43 such as the relationship here of the European Commission or the EU's relationship on this issue where several points point to the fact that BiH is a signator of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and as an EU prefers a single rate, it supports us with one step. I have official EU data in front of me where the EU's single VAT rates have only two countries, Denmark and Slovakia, and all others have differentiated rates, some and more than two, about 5% is the minimum. And we went with that logic to make it that minimum. The PDP will continue to insist on this issue, we cannot accept, I would have to say, the delusions that last from VAT to today, and these delusions relate to the formation of social programmes. Here it is also indicated that it would be more effective to introduce new social programmes, so that these programmes address the issues of those who are at risk. All the time, when this issue is raised, it's about some social programs that no one has ever done. On the other hand, social measures and social programmes are necessary regardless of whether it remains a single rate or it will be differentiated, hence governments in this country do not release responsibility for social measures, as not all social problems that have grown and which are really big in this country can not be solved with a differentiated rate. But it is known that these social programmes will then cover one smaller layer, one narrow layer of a very, very endangered population, and that is unfortunately enough in BiH. I appeal once again to this home that it may delay a statement on this issue for the post-election period, so that it is not understood that this is done for some political reasons, for political reasons. And wait for what the Commission's proposal for finance and budget is: a comprehensive report by the Council of Ministers, and possibly on that basis, their proposal to amend the VAT law. In that case, we will withdraw our proposal, possibly act with some amendments, if such a law arises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20313	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Sadik Bahtić, and then a respected representative, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20314	In its session of 1.9, first of all, the Commission was guided by the opinion of the Management Board, and we know that without their positive opinion there is nothing to say, so the Commission rejected the principles for the reason why counterpart Dokić explained it a little bit. However, I support this response from the Management Board where you can see nicely. I think it's a more correct method to go over the income that's probably going to be, here's the statistical indicator and the indirect tax administration comes out with the data that 8.4% more has been collected. Entities and direct taxes also because of the increase in salaries, meaning direct taxes, salaries, contributions, profits, that this surplus income that last year was 500 million, this year will be higher, that it schedules mean development, social programmes, subsidies to those categories of population that it really needs. And if we were to introduce a differential rate, I don't mind, I said it, we can, if we all agree, but it's still the government, the government is running a fiscal policy, so we can raise taxes on luxury goods, and these basic life supplies go to 5%. And about that, by that. We need to lead on the macroeconomic instability of the state and I think it's very important, believe me, we can do that, nothing will be cheap, profiting again from the profits, the merchants at the expense of that margin, and the state will lose huge, huge revenues. 44 I am so as not to direct this excess income into consumption but rather to development, subsidies, social programs and to get one who really needs it. Because every year there's extra income and what's here, I'm here so we can, and there's no, I have to explain it a little bit,...the whole mess has caused the deputy finance minister's statement in public that there's going to be an increase in VAT to 21%. It's out of my mind, no one can say, there's no argument that it's going to go for it. Because of 120 million, how much that loss of customs revenue will cost, on the other hand, we may have 500 to a billion surplus revenues. A colleague, Kasumović, said he would... The VAT won't grow it's absolutely, it's out of every sense, nobody's seriously talked about it, I don't think such statements should go public, right, there's a lot of pressure. According to me, this is Dokicevo, but it also says that all the countries that went into it... saw that, as Croatia, in one year, lost 500 million. Unfortunately, our border is still not 100 percent protected, we don't even have the equipment, it's pornic, I know how to do it there in Bihaq at the Izacic crossing as it was done, it would work now. Import a whiskey clipper and write a potato tow, the state loses, the profiteers earn. We still have no consciousness, no equipment. I think, this is the best project for me, I always say that, the last one that's been brought in, it works well, it buys income well. What works well doesn't need to be touched. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20315	Thank you. According to the schedule I have ahead of me, Honorable MP Novaković, so Bećirović, Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20316	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You see, there remains a dilemma whether it's better in our terms today to have two feet or to have, one of which is now whether 5% or... some other digit, or to have a zero rate as a second rate. In fact, they can agree with those who, when it comes to such rates, think that it is possible to abuse the rate and, in that case, affect the appearance of the black market. On the other hand, the zero rate is a better solution, because it practically makes it impossible for at least that reason for those who want to reject these laws. And I must say that, regardless, we will be against the Commission's report. I'll give you a few reasons. The first reason is because we think it's high time that the authorities deal with those layers of society that are the poorest. Let the government choose the methods they'll do it for. If MPs suggest simple, let the authorities choose complex methods, but let them solve the problem. It tells us that there is a surplus income on one side, and then the deputy minister comes out and says that the VAT rate is going to increase because there is not enough income, and that is the result of the application of new customs rates defined by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, there is no point. After that 45 comes out the director of the Administration and says - not true, there is excess income, there is no need to increase the tax rate, etc., etc. The story of how excess income will be used for development and social programs is a very interesting story, only if you have an argument that the surplus so far has been used to do so. Here, I would support her right now if last year's surplus income had been used for that, not for what we used, that we knew well why we used it. In particular, it is an amazing conclusion by the Commission: 'The Commission proposes to require the Council of Ministers to produce and deliver detailed analysis and evaluations of the introduction of differential VAT rates to total revenues in BiH'. Therefore, the essential reason is the total income, not the effects of other nature or effects for the poorest. So the authorities are worried about budgets, not citizens. It would be good if the Commission had said, among other things, to the total revenues, but to consider also the consequences of changing the rates on the highest and the poorest layers. Then this conclusion would make sense and I would support it. This conclusion is, in fact, sufficient justification and does not need any views of the Directorate for indirect taxation, any further explanations, any solidarity, development and social programmes that you gentlemen mention. So he actually showed a relationship to this question, a fundamental relationship, means to this question. I think the least the Commission could do – it could repeat the previous conclusion when we discussed the previous law, it would be more correct. Or a lot of times when we've discussed laws like this so far, and it's not our first time, but, I don't know, which way. It would be good if we had all received the position of the Management Board of indirect taxation and I don't see why he stayed with the Commission. I ask that, as an MP, regardless of the fate of this law, I be given the position of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board on this law in order to have the opportunity to see how seriously the Administration has dealt with the proposal if the remarks made to the Members are that they are inconclusive when they propose such laws. Of course, then you could also comment on the Commission's serious relationship, including all of us here, here in Parliament. Here I think I have presented several reasons why we believe at the SDS Club that it is necessary to reject the Commission's report and return it to the Commission once again to consider this law, to seriousise this process, I guess, if nothing else, those social programs that we've talked about so many times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20317	Thank you. Incorrect quote, Reverend Bahtić, is that right or replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20318	A kolega, Novaković, says - we are not bound by the opinion of the Management Board. Well, it's the Management Board that, we don't have, the Commission, we can't do anything when we get a negative opinion, it's the law. It's just a replica of it, and then I'd answer for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20319	Dear MP Bećirović: discussion. Here you go. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20320	I would first like to express hope that today's BiH Parliament's House of Representatives will have the strength to reject such an inappropriate report by the Commission on budget and finance, an inappropriately current socio-economic situation in BiH. I must say at the beginning that I am pleased that my colleague Branko Dokić joined the five-year struggle of the BiH SDP in this parliament to finally introduce a differentiated rate of basic life supplies, medicines and other things that he also listed in his proposal. I must say that the SDP of BiH is not against VAT, but it is against this unique rate, and the essence of our proposal was that it should be taxed at a higher rate of luxury, not tax burden and tax policy, to the most vulnerable categories of the population, to the poorest. In this regard, we have also proposed several amendments to the Excise Act. However, all of this, in these five years, has never been accepted. It is interesting here – things when it comes to the Management Board of the Directorate for indirect taxation. This indirect taxation administration acts as if it is both above Parliament and above the Council of Ministers. Almost nothing can be done without their consent, and I think the time has matured for the Council of Ministers of BiH to propose changes to the laws that will be done by the Administration for indirect taxation of awareness in constitutional frameworks soon. When I say that, I have to point out the following. Namely, this opinion we have received, here all MPs in the House of Representatives, what I have just said is confirmed in this report, namely this opinion, namely, and here it is seen that this Commission for Budget and Finance has several times referred to the proposal of the Directorate for Direct Taxation to get an opinion from them, which only says how the Directorate for Direct Taxation treats this Parliament as well. Also, we have in this opinion that the standard and uniform VAT rate of 17% resulted in safe revenues. But in this opinion, the Commission does not have a single word on social programmes and on social effects. Why did I mention five years of fighting in the BiH Parliament for introducing differentiated rates? In preparation for this item of the agenda, I found one ad by the Council of Ministers in 2004 that said what this unique VAT rate would bring among other things. And when you compare it today five years later, anyone can spot at least three big scams. One: The BiH Council of Ministers thus publicly announced that VAT will not increase prices but will more evenly deploy the tax burden. It is clear to everyone alive in this country that this, that none of this was at all evenly distributed but, above all, it was deployed so that this VAT, such a unique rate, was most felt by those poorest layers of society. Another scam: the price, he says, of one loaf of bread should remain the same as it is now. We all know exactly what happened to the prices of bread and other products. The single VAT rate will help BiH authorities bring the programmes needed to improve social services and directly provide benefits to pensioners and other vulnerable groups. Here, if I didn't make my comment, it would be best to ask the pensioners and those other endangered categories of the population what's left of this promise. Therefore, this promise that the introduction of a uniform VAT rate will bring in effective social programmes that will neutralise the negative impacts on the life standard of the most endangered layers of the population is completely failing, social programmes have not been adopted, and the environments for these purposes are not provided. A unique and relatively high tax rate caused an apparent strong blow to the population's standard of living and over-extract of funds from the economy. As a result, almost every year we have a regular phenomenon that budget revenues are significantly 47 higher than expected and planned. The experience of most European countries in the region that had successful systems with higher VAT rates clearly points to positive effects of such solutions, such as full financial discipline, protection of living standards, preservation of the current liquidity of the economy, etc. So it is clear that the BiH government does not have an effective social programme that can be implemented effectively. The positive effects of VAT should also be seen in the recovery of the economy. We don't see it either. The real question may be whether the citizens, therefore, the widest layers of BiH's population, felt the effects of VAT, and that they really tell us what the situation is on the ground, not that we get such haired reports. We, when it comes to social programmes, do not have an effective model that defines who, what, how and when it works when it comes to social programmes, because existing social programmes do not ensure the effective involvement of all the poor in social programmes and does not meet the needs of the poor. The special question, too, is, where was the VAT money spent? Here we are witnessing that budget revenues are higher than planned. The VAT, as we know, also has reasonable consequences for the Bosnian Herzegovina culture, not to mention the consequences of 680,000 poor citizens. Not to mention whether the cantonal governments had developed social programmes and were required under the Council of Ministers' programme. I don't know why we keep getting one and the same answer when it comes to all of these drug requirements, baby food, bread, study, etc. It's like a giant face. Why don't we look at some European experiences? Well, Italy is only from 1972 to 2004. 29 times changed its tax rates, i.e. Ireland did so, and Italy 19 times from 1973 to 1997. Here is a colleague, Dokić, who has spoken experiences from EU countries, as well as other non-EU countries. And here it is clear that apart from Denmark and Slovakia... these are the only two countries that use a single VAT rate; Belgium has even 4, 0.6, 12, 21; the Czech Republic three feet from 0.5% to 19%; France three feet; Ireland four feet; Italy currently three feet; Hungary three feet; Luxembourg three feet etc., not to count. So, to fit into that business-planned part of ten minutes, I just want to say that it would be good for today's BiH Parliament, or the House of Representatives, to really find the strength to reject this opinion of the Commission for Finance and Budget and try to finally turn the tax policy-making page in this country in a way that we can help and lead tax policy in the interests of the widest layers of society, not in the interest of just the small number of people rich today in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20321	Dear Representative Bahtić: replica, second in line.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20322	Yes, I know it well. First, here's how consistent we are, the SDP today stood for the European path. Of course, we're all for the European way. Maybe, except for them, they're declarative, and here we know that by the European Zero Rate Directive, you can't. And reduced 5%... The European Commission, as far as they hold to Europe and the European path. If we want to go to Europe, we have to follow European rules, European rules of play, here, number one. Number two, I think the Commission took this very seriously and I'm going to say it openly... The elections are, and little, little, pre-election laws, and we know that the people are hard to live. However, 48 would be even harder to live if introduced because, first of all, they would increase the gray economy. And what SDP does, it's pure politics. As much as they care about the people, their member of the Commission never comes to the Commission to defend it. Why aren't you on the Commission? Chuck, they're suggesting they don't come to the Commission. It's purely due to some cheap political points and, of course, to keep the state out of a certain income. As the SDP leads the tax policy, I know it best, and the BiH state knows it as well. We lost a billion marks thanks to theirs, when they were in power, the alliances when Alija Behmen was the prime minister of the Federation. When there was a tax on product sales, when fictitious companies are and when tax is calculated at the place of consumption, and not there in the wholesale. A billion marks now stand by the courts... tax thanks to VAT and SDP, we all know that well. Here, he presented the document's advantages as differential rates and I'm in. I am and we are all about to tax the luxury as much as possible; basic provisions of life, medicines, food as little as possible, but it must know the cost of costing. We said we want to analyze the Council of Ministers. 40% of the waste on these products, on basic life supplies and medications... Let's see how much that costs. If that's 200 million, and there's an extra income of 500 million, we're going right now... rate. We can't do it by heart. We can't go by heart, and he just listed these advantages. They left all these negatives behind. Well... the price... first increases the number of jobs, the inframation system needs to change, the gray economy, smuggling, bribery, corruption, all this goes with the introduction of a gray rate and the reduction of the Polish taxpayers. He's asking where the VAT revenue was spent. Well, that's a great question. Before VAT was introduced, the Bihac municipality had a budget of 14.5 million. By introducing VAT, Bihac now has 45 million. It's all about spending money laundering. And where the SDP is in power, it's washed the most. That's where the VAT goes, if the money needs to be developed, into social programs. Down there, steam is spent on micro, not macro up. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20323	Honorable representative Bećirović applied for the replica, and then respected representative Bešlagić for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20324	I don't know why Mr. Bahtić even appeared when he denied any arguments. First, I must say that he could not create the thesis that the SDP is consistent and consistent with its proposals, because at least four times in this House he proposed a law on amendments to the Act on Accises and Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act on Additional Value. And, very consistent and consistently, for five years now, has insisted on certain things, and especially on identifying these social programmes. When it comes to more VAT rates and justification for higher VAT rates, I have just presented here, and I have no intention of going from country to country, but it is clear that in the EU only a single rate has two states, that all other countries have more rates, including, to look at the situation in the region, what our neighbours do. Of course, Mr. Bahtić kept those facts quiet, he didn't want to talk about it. Nor did he want to say anything about these remarks concerning the Directorate for indirect taxation, where he, as the President of the Commission for Budget and Finance, has to address the same indirect taxation administration several times in order to get the most ethical opinion of the Administration. It just says how we are and how the current state of BiH works. And not to mention, he didn't refer to a single sentence concerning Council of Ministers' announcements five years ago. So here I have an ad by the Council of Ministers exactly and precisely, and as you can see from what was promised, and today, five years later, when we analyze it, we see that these were severe failures. And why should we lose some more new years, so for some new five years we realize that tax policy should finally be directed towards protecting the poorest categories of society in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20325	Thank you. The next for replica is the distinguished representative Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20326	Chairman, I'll be very brief. The Commission's report should be rejected for one simple reason why it is impossible for this Parliament to make politics, tax policy and everything else a fact dictates this parliament and government, or the Council of Ministers. I'm saying this because by now every time in these discussions, we've been told that there's nothing we can do until the Council of Ministers submits a report on the state of fundraising and use of funds and which are governments and to make a proposal. I can no longer accept in this House that we ask the Council of Ministers to give it, because, ultimately, they must again ask the Directorate for indirect taxation whether anything can be changed or not. I think the time has come and I think we all agree here: or to change the function of this Parliament in relation to this Council of Ministers' policy towards the Directorate for Direct Taxation and thus end this agony, the games between the Council of Ministers, us Parliamentarians and the Directorate for Direct Taxation! We've never once received a report on, let's say, the effects, where they're being spent and how they're being spent, and what suggestions to improve what we've been sworn here to bring social programs. The problem with this parliament is that they, level, I would say, the Council of Ministers is not the one who brings these programmes, social programs, but they bring it to the actual entity governments and goes to the level of cantonal, I would say, government. But I think we need to change something in this parallel and look for, when these programs are sought, to make them do it. If they don't, they won't use these funds. We need to improve something compared to our relationship with these things, because we are responsible for the level of collection and call us where the funds are spent, and we don't have the main element that we are, here, and the Council of Ministers has said that through social programmes we will improve the status, I would say, citizens who need that help. I mean, in that relationship, if the time had come, and I'd suggest that we think about changing the relationship, the law, and that, in fact, to change the relationship with them, I'd say, I'd say, I'd say, the IRS in office that this Parliament and government, or the Council of Ministers have the powers that belong to them, and not the IRS. Thank you very much. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20327	Thank you. I don't have any more reps. Controversy? Okay. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20328	Well, you see, we also repeat that on this subject we are discussing on several occasions and that we are approximately powerless because of the first debates that have been proposed from several political options, so it's not just one option, on this subject that certain products are needed to be treated differently in value added tax. What do you want to do? It seems that's how it is in this area and in our country, that it's not possible to edit it, although we all think, or most of all, we think we should do it differently. Here's the particular thing I'm going to say about these six products that are here in this law now proposed. I am convinced that even among us here who are in this room, if we were to conduct a survey, even among those who today will support this Commission position, if we were to conduct a survey on whether these products should have a single VAT rate or should be as large as they are proposed in this law or zeros or otherwise, mostly less, we would probably encounter, if not all, most of those who say they should not be unique, i.e. to be reduced. And that's why I don't blame much to the Commission, but she's the only one who's about to hit what's going to happen today, if they're going to accept their report not to accept the principles, because she's going to be the one who's going to be against this differentiated rate, and those who should not have done it, and then there's going to be all the burden on this commission and on our Parliament. And this explanation of why these principles are being rejected is what I can't agree with. He says the results of such a chosen tax rate have shown that this rate has resulted in safe revenues which are not disputed, and has prevented various types of financial fraud and evasion. And my people, this can't be any explanation for why they produce, here, which I'm going to read, wheat flour type 500, milk and edible oil, drugs, and to keep reading these six products, which is why they're not in another position. Consumers of these goods must not be collateral damage to the state and its institutions and bodies to prevent, as it says here, fraud and evasion. This should be resolved institutionally at other levels, laws, etc. The second thing is that we don't do right on this part, we have multiple returnees on this part, for these lawsuits and actions are determined by some fines etc. But this is now another problem that we need to discuss, and therefore these consumers must not be collateral damage to the country's impotence. I can translate this into a practical example, and that is to say that a certain owner has a good fruity orchard and, of course, an orchard as an orchard can't be fully protected and someone steals it from him in the course of his harvesting, or maybe 10% or 20% of his generation are stolen until harvesting. And he, unable to prevent that theft, decided to cut down the orchard completely and prevent those 20% theft by destroying his own orchard. I don't think we should apply that in practice. We need to find other ways and opportunities to prevent fraud and evasion, and we need to seriously think about these products and perhaps others who may have been in earlier proposals or who will be in future proposals to reduce or completely eliminate the rates. 51 Because we think that this will interest and force the authorities of the Directorate for Direct Taxation to think about this further, should be said in the economic and political jargon, to start this topic, so let them think about this well and make a sound proposal because they are empowered to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20329	Thank you. Next, there's a replica, right? Dear Representative Lazar Prodanović: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20330	I cite the need for MPs from the SDS to discuss this, but they forgot one thing: that they were part of the parliamentary majority that passed this VAT law. So, the obvious story of this is a pre-election campaign by which we always want to forget one thing: that the tax, the adoption of the Tax Act on additional value in BiH, is one of the most significant legal projects that has made the stable budgets of all institutions at all levels of government in BiH, and local communities, and entities, and cantons, which is very important. Of course, when we're having this debate, the essential thing would be to change the Tax Act to an additional value.. Indirect taxation administrations which legally regulate one question: that changes in the tax rate on additional value, for changes, a positive opinion of the Management Board of the ICC is necessary. And there is no dilemma that the chairman of the Governing Board for the first time, so BiH citizen and finance minister and vault in the Council of Ministers of BiH, has provided a very clear explanation why at this point it would not be favourable to introduce a differentiated or zero tax rate at an additional value. Also, the European Integration Directorate gave its opinion. In order to conduct a debate on this, it would be more appropriate to refer to the parliamentary procedure of amending the member of the Law on the Administration for indirect taxation which obliges us to do so. The Finance and Budget Commission has done nothing but comply with the law. And secondly, it protects everyone in BiH from what would be uncertain right now -- introducing a differentiated rate. This, whether it will end in BiH, introduce measures to protect social categories, which will be a way to transfer these funds and the safe use by those is much more important than whether we are going to introduce a differentiated or zero tax rate to an additional value at this point, to make insecure social categories in the situation in which they are, as they are now, and also enable possible malversions, not supporting them in any way... when the debate on this law is being held. And I'm thinking that this debate should lead to an atmosphere that wouldn't point to us, here, we want to help someone, and we voted to make it the way it is. Furthermore, if we introduce a 5% rate... proposed by the esteemed colleague Dokić, and then we need to think about removing customs and all of this after signing the SAA, how much would it be necessary to increase the VAT rate from 17% to more. I think it would have a far more negative effect than the overall state it is. Thank you. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20331	Thank you. It's a replica, isn't it? Replica means Okolić, Novaković. Here, whatever.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20332	Well, you see, Col. Prodanović wasn't in Parliament then, so he can afford to comment on it this way. So those who were then in Parliament know well when this law was voted on what conclusions were made and I must say that, unfortunately, after a few years, these conclusions were not respected and today we are talking about social programs, etc. So not long after that, the SDP and SDS, on several occasions, went with different amendments to the rate laws. I don't have to remind myself that, depending on who suggested it, even the Administration gave a positive opinion when the Proposer was the Council of Ministers and always negatively on the same laws when someone else was the promoter. I suppose we've passed the Fiscal Council Act that we should overcome what Mr. Prodanović is talking about. I understand, gentlemen, that you prefer budgets. That's clear to me. Look out, and maybe if we were in a position we'd be thinking this way that much more important budgets are because there's a lot of budgets that can be done. No budget, little what. I must say, I still think today that this reform, no matter how we look at it, has given effect. And that the biggest effects of this reform have just been enjoyed by the SNSD with its government, which came to RS shortly after the law was passed. And enjoyed and abused, of course. But now that's a political question, it's not the subject of this debate here. So, I just wanted to remind myself of the conditions under which this law was passed in this House here and that these conclusions of Parliament were never met, although they were repeated several times and after that whenever we had such proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20333	Dear Representative Okolić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20334	You see, when you want to talk about one serious problem, and when you don't mention any political option, no election campaign, no election year, it's impossible to do that. I have never in my own word initiated any doubt in the replica given by Mr. Lazar Prodanović that it is an election year, that it is a pre-election campaign, etc., but now it is quite normal to replicate and to buy certain points, if it can be picked up. I find that different. There was a time and when it wasn't an election period, there was no election year, etc. – the amendments and additions to this VAT Act were in the procedure and they also did not go through... some of our conclusions from which it appears that a certain shift in this area is necessary. In what way, someone from the profession will say that. It wasn't just the opposition that suggested it. It was also from Mr Dokić's position; I believe he is in position, so it is said, there were also his proposals. Therefore, both from position, and from opposition, and at a time when there were no elections. 53 E, now, we can't take it out if this law was passed at the moment when one newspaper was introduced on the market with us, which is the VAT Act, that it is the Holy Scriptures or the Kur'An or that it should not be changed. At that point, it could be passed and it was finely said that certain conclusions were being made and implemented that Mr. Novaković had just spoken of. If you and those conclusions have not been implemented, of course you must approach something else. We cannot allow ourselves to practice this and say - it is necessary to get a positive opinion from the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board. And that's why something in this area can't be done. I wasn't even talking about the technique that she had to be strictly like this, I didn't blame the Commission for which I said she did at this point as much as possible. There are all sorts of possibilities allowed to be created in this area, but I am telling you that the users of these goods must not be collateral damage to all of what we are talking about here today and what we cannot find common ground in Parliament to differentiate this. And when we speak individually, all of us say -- so we should cut that rate, we should cancel, we just don't know which way we're going to go, and then out of that impotence of ours, it's happening that we don't change anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20335	Thank you. Replication response. Another replica, the esteemed representative of Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20336	Well, I understand your discussion about that, but I'll say. This is not about the benefit of a political party due to the introduction of VAT. You have not mentioned another fact: that BiH has one of the lowest VAT rates in Europe, one of the lowest rates. That's one question. Secondly, we haven't benefited. What did we have when it was a sales tax? What was the situation in BiH anyway? What was done in terms of the benefits of public sector employees at all levels of government? Let us not forget that they are close to 50% in the total number of BiH employees, that the percentage is very high. Still, it is necessary, so when we talk about this, to hold a debate on this issue. It would be perfectly logical not to be in this environment where we always think we're going to do it. Here we have one of the 30 short-term commitments resulting from the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which refers to the need to establish the 'Economic and Social Council' in BiH, and then to adopt these measures that, let's see how this problem will be worked out. What if we don't do this part, so if we build it and we don't run this activity, what happens next anyway? Are we going to have an agreement on that? Further, budget revenues and their distribution to protect social categories? If we're having this discussion, I'm sure we feel alike. We believe, here I think both SDS and SNSD, that the issue of protection of social categories – competences are at this point legal and constitutional at entity level. So, if that's what we're talking about, so it's an absolute question that, how do we solve it now? So, do we think that we're going to introduce a 5% rate for some groceries and that we're going to solve this whole question and whether that's what we're supposed to do if you're talking about the investments that were. The rate of investment needs to be analysed today and what was 54 before BiH's additional value tax was introduced at all levels of government. And not as anyone had in terms of normal, we were power, now we're in power. There'll be someone else tomorrow. Surely we do not consider our contribution to the introduction of VAT but it has introduced financial stability and discipline in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20337	Dear Representative Novaković: replica second.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20338	You see, the fact that our rate is 17% and unique isn't an advantage and let's say that it's low. You know, it would be much better if we had a differentiated rate, so for luxury products above 17%, and for these products that we're talking about below, here's not going to say 0, but below 17%. Maybe that would be a better solution, and that's exactly what we're talking about. So it's not our luck that we only have... that she's only 17%, but she's on bread 17% and alcohol 17% and cigarettes. So I don't think it's any luck. Secondly, when we talk about the IRS, I don't know, we view management as some kind of fiction. The finance ministers are sitting in the administration. Live people who, gentlemen, control from parties in power, who can vote one way or another and who obviously vote one way or another. So, no, there's no administration somewhere outside the system, somewhere a board of directors outside this country. So, the Management Board, you know who works by... its composition, so by function who does and that the Management Board wants to make a decision, he can make a decision. Of course, he needs consent, probably political and every other one, but one serious analysis that no one wants to do. This is the essence of a serious analysis that no one wants to present to the public, but we have statements about what we have, a colourful statement that we have in this country for several months now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20339	Dear Representative Okolić: replica second.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20340	Here I am going to start with a folk as a replica, which is “not that Mom sucks her baby to suck until that child cries, no matter what the world loves most. ” So, if we don't cry about this topic in such a debate (under quotes), no one will remember to do anything about this law or protection, it's social cases, etc., which is a follow-up to this law. We must initiate certain changes to this law. It's obvious and visible that as they are, it's unsustainable. We are constantly saying that this is one of the lowest rates in the surrounding countries which is true and is one of the lowest but not lowest, but it is unique, means average, we have countries, if we take an average unique and recalculated, and we see that it is the lowest, and we have to take care of the standard of our citizens and the time behind us. The state doesn't just need to take the soul of its citizen and then when it needs it and when it doesn't need it. And it is no sin to help those who really need help to survive, and it is also no sin to take those more than it is taken if they waste themselves on a luxuriant and exclusive slave.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20341	Dear representative and other vice-president, Dr. Milorad Živković, replica. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20342	Thank you, Chairman. I want to say that those who talked about the way this law came here and how it was adopted in this House should have said then the whole history of it, not only to be held at two points – who voted and what were the conclusions. It should also be said that there have been warnings in this Parliament that it seems a mistake by introducing a single rate and that this error will be impossible to correct afterwards any conclusions, any changes by introducing more rates. And day and day I stand at that point that whoever raised the price of bread by introducing any rate, even zeros at the price of bread, will not reduce that price. Somebody tell me in any account it won't be like that in BiH. So the mistake was made and no conclusions afterwards could be corrected. What I'm trying to say is that this Parliament here should neither hide behind the Council of Ministers nor behind the Directorate for Direct Taxation, but rather say that Article 14. The law relating to the jurisdiction of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board should be amended. That it is necessary to change the part about the Committee being responsible for the launch of the preparation of legal rights. I have not seen in this House any amendments and additions to the law concerning that member. Let us in Parliament make a prerequisite that if the Council of Ministers does not want the Board of Directors to amend these laws, we shall make the conditions that this Parliament adopts laws, what is its and constitutional jurisdiction, and what we have disputed ourselves in the adoption of such a law to ourselves. Take away the law of our own right to change the law!? Therefore, MPs, gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, let us take part in our responsibilities. About how much the RS government, individual entities, the way it spends its budget, is not a topic for today's debate. Let's leave that topic for another session, and I'll surely convince you with other data that it's doing a lot better than it's done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20343	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Denis Bećirović, second.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20344	Thank you. I'll be very brief. Namely, I agree with my colleague Živković that a mistake was made five years ago when a single VAT rate was introduced, and this is a well-known SDP stance. However, I have answered to say that I disagree with this assessment that a mistake cannot be corrected. In her initial discussion and here I repeat again: from 1972 to 2004, only one Ireland corrected its error 29 times and changed the number and height of the rate. One Italy 19 times changed the number and height of the rate from 1973 to 1997. It is possible to correct a mistake if there is political will and willingness to do so. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20345	Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20346	Thank you, Your Honor. Let me mention whether in the form of a false quote or in any other form, but in any case I don't think a mistake was made when the law was passed with one rate and the height at which it was adopted. And I'm mentioning this for a number of reasons because no one here is talking about the advantages of one foot. And why exactly at the height that it was adopted by this law that was very busy, i.e. analysis and budget, etc., why it actually serves income from VAT. We can agree and disagree with that, but the fact is that much greater risks, much greater mistakes – if there is to be such arguments, we can discuss – were made that we started with a reform in a more indirect taxation system in the absence of adequate institutions and in the absence of one starting position where we had a high degree of coverage of taxation in the indirect taxation system. We can't even compete with other countries, because the tax evac in any of the countries mentioned here today was not as present as it was with BiH. But I'm only saying this for one reason, I don't know whether to qualify this intervention as a correction to the wrong assumption, but here's to qualify as a second opinion. I need to say something else. This isn't the first time we've gone back to VAT and amendments to the law, etc. and usually, in discussions of this kind, the social problem is used as an argument. Of course, we can use this social problem as an argument in other types of stories. A colleague, Jerko, will mention in the context of the deficit, perhaps, someone else in the context of someone else. When we have such a social picture in BiH, it is quite easy to find a link between the difficult situation of certain categories of the population and any segment of the discussion regarding the economy. However, all legislators, advocates of any change to this law, I would simply refer them to the question, that is, to find the answer, whether we want to be here or to agree whether we want to address the social problem of the tax, or fiscal situation, especially in the system of indirect taxation and in particular the amendments to the VAT Act, or whether the VAT Act serves us to solve the social picture primarily or otherwise. If we are to talk about some priorities and in what context, then let us agree in advance, not to constantly drag ourselves into a position to put, and perhaps sometimes, legitimate proposals in the context of an election or pre-election campaign, possibly criticism between us, and ultimately not to reach an effect that perhaps this Parliament should achieve. Let's look, if it's a matter of economic law, then let's look for an argument for both of us. Of course, with the assumption that we know very clearly what we want to do with this, whether we should solve economic problems in BiH or social problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20347	The following is the reply to the replica: the esteemed representative Živković, another replica. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20348	Since my words are wrongly interpreted or not well understood, I have a need to correct and explain what I wanted to say, which is that of course everyone has an opinion. I think the introduction of a uniform rate was a mistake because at that moment there were not enough firm arguments that our system did not support and did not allow the introduction of more rates. Also, I think the introduction was a mistake, because all of them in turn, both of them, the Hub and Oil producers, they added 17% to the basic price. If we had put it or put it to 5%, and raised the VAT price to 18%, we would have a completely different system in BiH. By giving... these basic intentions at 5%, at 0%, none of the producers will return the price there. So I think it was a mistake. And if I didn't think it was possible to correct a mistake in some other segments, I wouldn't propose to my fellow parliamentarians to initiate a procedure for amending this law in which we could propose amendments and supplementing this law. That is why I believe that in some other segments it is possible to correct that error. I also call on the Council of Ministers, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, in their statements, said they would propose several variants of higher rates. I expect this Parliament to see it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20349	Thank you. No more reports for replicas. The next one was registered for raps, the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20350	The Honorable Chairman, simply an incredible situation, I will now sign every word of what the position has said. But is there really, if it wasn't absurd, I can't say tragically, but if it wasn't catastrophic, it would be ridiculous. Well, I guess we opposition parties were more interested in helping the people, because that people voted for us. He doesn't vote for them. But according to their story, they're the only ones who stand up for the citizens, and here we want everyone to die today. And guys, this is really funny, this is sad, this man can't listen. Here, today we have two draft laws. A large population in foreign currency savings, and when they were first in Parliament, I asked for someone to say once who robbed them, they were robbed. Where did the thieves take their money? Will the D.A. do anything to find the thieves? Will SIPA find the thieves? Will the Council of Ministers go into some debate, I don't know what kind of debate with Slovenia to say that the Ljubljanska Banka is returning the money, that they return everything they have robbed, and that we can make up for it through VAT and solve their problem once. And he was trying to help them. And now I'm up for it. But how? How? Other all the laws and suggestions of Mr. Lijanović, I support everything. But can domestic laws change international agreements? So he proposed to you here and begged you in the College, begged fellow MPs, let's have a thematic session: just an economic situation, so we don't all experience a collapse. And no one. And now this VAT bill covers everything, so the population is no longer one part of the foreign savings, one part of the farmers, but all of them are citizens. And I repeat, and imagine, only the position is interested, and a huge number, I don't know the percentage, here's 70% of those people voted for us, the parliamentary majority. And like us, we won't, like we don't want to. Mr. Živković explained nicely the position of us MPs, especially in committees 58 which, I must stress, are dependent on the Directorate for indirect taxation, depending on that we are classic hostages as legislators of the Directorate for Direct Taxation. And I repeat, Mr. Živković has said nicely whether or not any of us here have asked for the amendment of this law to be removed from their jurisdiction. Don't be held hostage! We spoke to them every time in the Foreign Trade Commission. Five times they don't answer us, six answers unfavorable for us, so we're going out with a legal project, the Council of Ministers hasn't come out, and then, when they see that we've proposed, they come, too, so the collapsing of their proposal and ours, and we're in a stalemate. Well, that's fine, Anštajn said -- it's just human stupidity and space, they're the only ones that are infinite. What am I supposed to be now, Einstein? I don't have anything to do with this stuff. But I won't take it. The people who call me all the time, they say - you don't give. Here, I'll give it all. But who? Council of Ministers, can he do what the people ask? Here's what the position is, we're on their side but not this way. Could the Directorate of indirect taxation be above this parliament. What's the position now? Yes, it is. Yes, it is. Can we change rates to seek social peace, so we say, here we help the citizens, and nothing will help them, nothing. And that way I said in one session: what we fear of taxing luxury goods!? Let's see, gentlemen colleagues, our private fleet! Tax it, what? Then we'll bring the rate down here. If it's possible to perform? But don't just talk around here, one of them wants to help, that's how we won't, and that's the point. Since the media is hungry, and the public, and how fortunate that this Parliament has not been held for a year, because the people have been quiet in this season when we were on vacation, so now that they hear this session that we're not giving us something, you'll see tomorrow in all the newspapers, so these employees of our agencies and ministries are threatening us -- some of them will be there. If they do, I'll be in charge of seeing how we can help them. So, guys, is there really a way out of this situation? Is there any way he can tell us who's going to solve this? Here, I will. Here, they want our club. Here, they want the opposition. They want our colleagues from the parliamentary majority. We all will. How? How to pay people back their old foreign currency savings if there's no money, and no one's going to tell them who the thieves took it away. Who robbed them? Here's the question I'm asking today. It wasn't official business. Will the D.A. and SIPA decide who took the money from the Ljubljanska banka and the Investment Bank? Is someone gonna say it? It's all part of the agenda here, everything. Are we going to help these people survive? I keep asking you, colleagues. And let's see, once, the indirect tax administration said like she said. We don't have a chance to do anything different. We're hostages in the Commission, someone's always criticizing me. I'm not taking any more reviews on my own. I'm not even going to the client's account, because we're constructive, we're certainly here in a position to do something. I ask again, how? Here, I'm asking all of you. Here, I'll support everything you opposition said, how?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20351	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20352	You're the government, you handle it! What authority? Which I am the authority when the director of the indirect taxation board won't be five times on our request to answer me at all, even when the answers are negative and I can't do anything in the Commission. And then he tells me my colleague, whom I respect, well, you are the greatest demagogue. You go out to help the people, and you don't give in Parliament. Here, give it all. Here, I'll do my best to make it better for the people. For if the people are not better, neither will I. I won't, people, let no one drive me here with a stick. But since I'm with the intelligence department, I know when they'll be coming with the locusts, I'll let you know that you're running with me too. 59 Don't play games, people, with the fate of men. This is all about the subject. Both VAT and I don't know what. And let's, uh, let's, uh, let's put this after the election.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20353	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20354	Here I come, not under the carpet. Let's after the election, activate all the problems and solve what we can, when I ask you, as friends.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20355	Thank you. The following is the honourable representative of Bahtić: first debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20356	I didn't mean to discuss it, but in addition to these discussions and attempts to blame the Commission, I am obliged to present some facts. First of all, the Commission for Finance and Budgets is very responsible and consciously doing its job, thanks to members of the opposition who never come, and we will always support in the Commission any change, supplement, even a new law that will increase revenues, but we will not do anything by heart, without a detailed analysis of how much it costs, how much it will affect the budget, because we know, here you see... old foreign currency savings, waiting for us institutions, we have a thousand demands. I think it's a mistake, it's really a mistake, that this point is even... put on the agenda. We are also on the Commission when counterpart Dokić said it was behind the election. And I don't know who put it. Now everyone's like, oh, my God, not pre-election, and you can tell from the plane that it's pre-election. Everyone wants some points but for nothing, we tell anyone who wants to, the people appreciate the work back 20-30 years, not a couple of months back. For God's sake, they take care of the people! As they care for the people, it is seen where the opposition is in power in the municipalities. They have smitten this people, they have robbed them, and here they are, all of a sudden, praying for the people. Show me that in action, where you are in power in the municipalities! I would say the very short effects of introducing VAT, just... let me say about... introducing a zero rate. The effects were above all, I said, that this is the best project that was introduced in BiH after the war or... The VAT has given multiple positive effects on the BiH economy, there has been a reduction in imports and an increase in exports, we have received surplus at all levels and incomes are making good progress, GDP is growing on average 6% each year. That's all thanks to VAT. Also, we've reduced the grey economy, increased the tax base from 20,000 taxpayers... to 40,000. These are all positive effects. Industrial production has grown because the return of this VAT and much, much more. Now, let me say the consequences of introducing a zero rate. I don't mind, believe me, I'll be the first to, just give me everything in the sun, all the cost. First, I said, it will increase the gray economy, smuggling, bribery and corruption. Unfortunately, in BiH, we still have the mafia and criminals stronger and more organised than the state. That thing is clear to all of us. Experience shows us that introducing a unique rate in other countries where weak institutions as well as in our country – a developed chain of smuggling, so that only traders and profiters would benefit. The introduction of a zero rate entails 60 new employment, an increase in the administration. Is that what we need? And this way we have too much red tape, so we need to get more jobs. By introducing a zero rate, it will not cost anything, but only new gatherings will take place. We're going to have to get some products, 60%, up to 23 or 25, and this zero rate, and these aren't going to cost anything, so there's going to be a buyout for everyone. If the bread is branded, it will be for the rich and the poor, so we get nothing. So we wouldn't cut prices. At the expense of the state, only traders and smugglers would profit. Also, introducing a differentiated rate or zero rate would endanger the functioning of the budget at all levels, as this would lead to a loss of public revenue. It would come to, I said, a drastic collection of other products. It would also stop economic development. Here we have an old foreign exchange savings, we have a thousand of those waiting. What if we drop our incomes and it falls? Also, everyone takes it out on that social character. However, I have already said, in that case, rich and poor would have these, but nothing would have been cheap. I said, if there are these surplus revenues, let's invest them in development, in incentives, in production, subsidies, social programs. If there are these revenues, let's cut the linear 15% to 16%, not talk about raising the VAT to about 21% now. And I think that the Commission did exactly the right thing when it concluded that one detailed analysis of how much this would cost, by the Council of Ministers, would lead any government to fiscal policy. Well, I guess I don't think fiscal politics will be run by the opposition, but I know what the opposition's goal is. The Council of Ministers is that it should make a detailed analysis of how much it costs and that, if the Council of Ministers sits there, it estimates that there is an inflow of funds, that no problem can be introduced, even in three steps. Let's go 3, 5, 15, 29. You know what needs most, what's the middle, what's this. But it should all be on data paper. We can't go with our throats into strawberries. The indirect tax administration did some analysis, and it calculated us on the basis of 5% and 25% and 8% and 23%, and it showed that 60% of traffic consumption was products that would go at a higher rate. It means 50%. So, we'd put even more pressure on the poor because it wouldn't cost anything. And I'd end up here. So, who's the goal of losing hundreds of millions of income, so they've got private traders. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20357	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20358	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak in my brief statement of what is not said, because I understand all the views expressed here by all the representatives of the position and opposition, and it would be difficult to challenge any final position. What I would need to perhaps repeat: that the BiH Parliament is the owner of an indirect taxation system and any transfer of responsibility to anyone else simply cannot be true. I think it would be good to remind ourselves that the Council of Ministers has introduced a system of indirect taxation in BiH in co-operation with entity governments and canton governments in this federal part and, some question of whether it has been done in those circumstances, I think 61 has been done best and it is very good that, given the effects of this Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we can continue to achieve basic objectives at all levels of government, without having to reach any change of VAT due to the reduction of customs duties. It's an important thing. And it may be, right away, that the change in VAT without seeing BiH's fiscal capacity for a period of three to five years, in light of this Stabilisation and Association Agreement, will simply not go away, as much as you wish and as you wish. It has to be changed responsibly. It needs to be changed, but it can't be put in a position to change that often. I think this debate also shows that when Parliament made a decision, knowingly... The Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, seeking to avoid politics and those in place. So it can't be some pre-election trick or anything but to decide at the level of experts on any change in tax rates. The structure of the Management Board shows how competent and entity it is. So it's not just experts, it's people who are responding to lower levels of funding, in line with the constitutions of all levels of government. Progress has already been highlighted here. So, not only was he the Management Board, he was even a stranger for a time until we showed a sufficient level of responsibility when, behold, he successfully took over the domestic president and I think this answer that we have now received is the consequence of that overall responsibility. This can all be disputed here, but in addition to the fact that the effects of this law are not quantified – the reduction of revenue in the budget, I find it difficult, when only the profession is taken into account, it is difficult to dispute the views that have been made here. I think it's a good suggestion that all MPs get this position of the Management Board of indirect taxation. I think it's right that those who say all of this would be turned into a trade margin, a traffic margin. The best example is energy. When they grew up, everything grew, when the energy went down, there was nothing almost falling, and it fell down. It would have happened here, too. I think that's one lesson learned. What I would like to point out here – I think someone would have to express their view of VAT as an incentive for domestic production. So no one talked about it, and when we introduced it, it was also said that domestic producers also had one more active participation there that this VAT was, in a certain way, an incentive to domestic production. If VAT was abolished for these agricultural products, then domestic agricultural production would come into even more severe competition. I don't think that a poorly developed market in BiH should be ignored. It is not only in BiH, it is probably more underdeveloped in BiH, but neighbouring countries cannot trace extra profits because the market is underdeveloped and, of course, traders have the right to make extra profits with increased margins. And when all of this is collected and taken away, I think it's a good thing that we have this kind of Finance and Budget Commission that took responsibility to make these conclusions the way they are, and Parliament could, by supporting, by who knows what time, finally agree to this conclusion by the Council of Ministers to approach this analysis which would be the basis for considering value added tax in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20359	I thank the honourable representative. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20360	Do I have the right to a discussion? 62
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20361	We can take your word for it if you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20362	Thank you. Since I had no right to another replica, so now I'm just asking if I have the right to a discussion? And I'd like to ask you, Mr. President, not to commit violence against my rights in this house in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20363	I'd like to ask you to focus on the discussion. You have the right to discuss it, so discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20364	But here's because I haven't had a chance to warn you in the last debate, I'm using it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20365	I am the only warner here by the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, and you have the right to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20366	You're the only one who's right?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20367	When you're in my shoes, then you can warn. Get to the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20368	To the violence of rights here, each of us has a right. But I don't think we should use violence against rights, but we should stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20369	You're welcome to stick to the Rules of Procedure. That's what I keep warning you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20370	Thank you, Chairman. The VAT is a theme from adoption to today: how many feet, how and how!? I personally and the People's Party work for improvement supports more VAT rates and I think that this law in first reading, when we look at its principles, I think we should adopt it, and then in the second part of the parliamentary phase to try to fix it, possibly, with all these remarks that were in this debate today. The whole debate is to see that we are trying all the time, as with other laws, to transfer the responsibility from the Parliamentary Assembly to committees, to boards or to something else. I don't think that's right, because we're here responsible for the regulation and, basically, if we're bothered by the authority of the board of directors, we can change that authority. If 63 bothers us with the Council of Ministers, we can bring it in without them and, basically, nothing can bother us except ourselves to pass some law, in accordance with the Constitution that gave us these powers. It's obvious our VAT is like a charm. Only one eats cabbage, the other eats meat. So we charge the same tax to those who use luxury and those who try to barely survive. I think that for a time there may be, possibly, a justification that the problem is introducing, for a time it may be to justify the problem of abuse etc. But it can't last forever because those who may not be able to do it, we need to train them and help them to do it. For that reason, I would ask you all to try to adopt this today in the first reading, and then, in the second reading, I have objections to rates. We need some luxuries, maybe, to increase the financial sustainability of a proposal like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20371	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda: Ad. 12. Report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for the period I-XII 2007 The BiH presidency delivered the report on 11 July 2008. The Financial and Budget Committee concerned the report and submitted its Report on 1 September 2008. The Commission had no objection to the report on the implementation of the Budget and proposed it to the House for adoption. I'm opening a debate. I don't have any charges to argue with. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission for the examination of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20384	Here, I, when we put this on the agenda, had one reserve that could be interpreted as Article 34. Rules of Procedure this way, but we voted to put it on the agenda. In fact, if it were some rich municipality of eastern Herzegovina, otherwise eastern Herzegovina rich in water, we would not vote but, given that it is the Laktaš, we will vote in favour of this agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20385	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20386	That's what you'd do if it was High. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20387	At this point, we've exhausted the agenda in the debate, and here's the suggestion that at least an hour needs a break. I want to make it possible, so we're within the limits; that means continuing to plead on all points of the agenda at 15:30, but I'm really asking you to be exact, at 15:30. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats to prepare for a plea. ... Representatives, I'm glad to hear you're in a small mood, so I'm asking you now to prepare to move on to a plea. We move to a statement on the first item of the agenda: The adoption of the minutes of the 33rd session of the House of Representatives. Please prepare. Vote now! With 36 votes "yes", without votes "against" and "abstained", I find that the House of Representatives has accepted, the minutes of the 33rd session of the House of Representatives adopted. We move on to a statement on the 3rd item of the agenda: The request of representative Jerka Ivanković Lijanović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act under the haste procedure, in accordance with Article 127. We're voting on the request. Please prepare. Vote now! With two votes "yes", 33 "against" and three "abstained", I find the emergency procedure request not accepted. We move to a statement on the procedure again, a vote on the procedure for 126. - shortened procedure. Please prepare. Vote now! With seven votes "yes", 29 "against" and four "abstained", I find that no procedure under Article 126 has been adopted. That means this law goes according to regular procedure. We move on to a statement on item 4: Request of representative Jerka Ivanković Lijanović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Reconciliation on the basis of an old foreign exchange savings account under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. We're voting on the request. Please prepare. 69 Vote now! With 12 votes "for", 27 "against", one "abstained", I find that no application for a vote under Article 127 has been accepted. We move to a vote for voting on the procedure under Article 126. Rules of Procedure. Same, fourth point. Please prepare. Vote now! With 13 votes "yes", 21 "no", one "abstained", I find that no procedure under Article 126 has been adopted. That means this law goes into regular procedure. We move on to a statement on item 5: The request of representative Jerka Ivanković Lijanović to consider the proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. We're voting on the request. Vote now! Eight votes "for", 27 "against", five "abstained". The request was not accepted. We move to a statement on the same agenda, to vote on the procedure under Article 126. Rules of Procedure. Vote now! Nine votes "yes", 27 "against", four "abstained" - I find that no procedure under Article 126 has been adopted, and this law goes into regular procedure. We move to a statement on the 6th item of the agenda: The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Classification of Activities in BiH under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. We're voting on a request for a shortened procedure. Stand by. Vote now! 36 votes "yes", two "against", one "abstained" - I find the request for a shortened procedure accepted. We move to a statement on the 7th item of the agenda: a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on the settlement of liabilities based on the account of the old foreign savings under the reduced procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. Voting on a request for a shortened procedure. Prepare and vote now! 21 votes “for, ” 11“ against, ” seven“ abstentions. ” Insufficient entity majority, no consent. We're turning into a second round of voting on the same law. We all vote, two-thirds of the vote "against". 70, stand by. Vote now! 21 “against, ” 21“ for, ” 12 “against, ” seven“ abstentions. ” I am not enough, i.e. with insufficient votes "against", to conclude that the Council of Ministers' request has been accepted. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Policy Act (second reading). Please prepare. Vote now! 37 votes "yes", three "abstained" – I find the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Customs Policy Act to be adopted. We move to point 9: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Features of BiH. We have a first vote on the amendments of the distinguished representative Novaković. Is it possible to insist on all amendments or individual amendments? So here we are, since the promoter is in agreement, in the package on all amendments to the distinguished representative Novaković. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 13 votes "yes", 25 "against", two "abstained" - I find the amendments not accepted. We move on to a statement on this law in the second reading. Please prepare. Vote now! 24 votes "yes", 11 "against", four "abstained", with an insufficient entity majority, there is no agreement in the College. We move to a plea in the second round of the same law. Please prepare. Vote now! 25 votes "for", 11 "against", four "abstained" – with two-thirds of the vote "against" from the RS, the law was not adopted. We move on to the 10th point statement: Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on bottled drinking water (second reading). We're voting on the bill in the second reading. 71 stand by. Vote now" With 37 votes "for", one "against", one "abstained", I find that the bill has been adopted. We move to a statement on the 11th point: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, with the opinion of the Committee for Finance and Budget – Proposer: Representative Branko Dokić. We're voting on the Committee's opinion. If the opinion is adopted, the bill has fallen, if it is not adopted, the Committee is tasked with delivering a new opinion. Vote now! 28 votes "yes", 12 "against", without "abstained". With a sufficient entity majority, I find that the Committee's opinion has been accepted, which means the bill has been rejected. We are passing, we also have one proposal for a Commission conclusion. "The Commission proposes to the House of Representatives to require the Council of Ministers to produce and provide detailed analyses and assessments of the introduction of differentiated VAT rates for the total income in BiH." So, okay, you're right, we move on to the 12th point statement: Report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for the period I – XII 2007. Prepare to plead, we vote on the report. Vote now! 36 votes "yes", two "against", two "abstained" – I find that the report has been adopted. 13th point: Report from the Commission to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission for the examination of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the speedy procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. Voting on the request in the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 24 votes "yes", 11 "against", five "abstained" and two-thirds "against" from RS, I find that the request has not been accepted. We move to a statement on the same, on the same meaning as the Commission's request under Article 126. It may, when not adopted, when a request for 127 is not accepted, go immediately to the Rules of Procedure under Article 126 of the Rules of Procedure. If it's not accepted, then it's a regular procedure. So, we're moving on to a plea... for procedure under Article 126. Vote now! 25 votes "for", 10 "against", four "abstained"; two-thirds "against" from the RS, no procedure under Article 126 of the Law has been adopted. _________(?) No, no, no, this is the first round of collegiate. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20391	Report, negative opinion. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20392	Please, no discussion, we must be working on the Rules of Procedure. 23 votes "yes", 11 "against", three "abstained". With two-thirds of "against" from RS, no, there is no entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20393	I'm sorry, I didn't get to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20394	You want to do it again?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20395	I will, I haven't been able to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20396	I'm taking a break for 10 minutes, so we'll continue the vote. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats. We're continuing our work. The 16th item of the agenda. Declaration on the Commission Report The College on an effort to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the BiH administration – Proposer: Representative Milorad Živković. The vote on the Committee's opinion in the second round. If the opinion is adopted, this law has fallen, unless the commission is given a new opinion. Please prepare yourselves. Join the vote now! 23 votes "yes", 11 "against", three "abstained"; 11 "against" from RS – Opinion not adopted. 74 Let's go, there isn't, and there is, there's no entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20398	No, no, no, this is the second round, it's 11 years old, the procedure is over, it's back to the Commission. No, no, it's not adopted, it has 11 "against".
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-03-0.u20399	You're right. It is therefore back to the Commission to deliver a new opinion. We move to a statement on the 17th item of the agenda: Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Decision (if you can listen a little bit because it is real) of the Commission's report on the attempt to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Decision on the adoption of the Transport Policy of BiH for the period from 2008 to 2020. The vote on the motion for a decision – in the second round did not reach agreement. So if two-thirds are "against", the proposal is not accepted. Please prepare. You're voting now! 26 votes "for", 10 "against", two "abstained"; two-thirds "against" from the RS. The proposal for a decision to adopt the Transport Policy for the period 2008 to 2020 is not accepted. We move to a statement on the 18th point: The proposal of the Council of Ministers for the appointment of a member of the BiH Commission for concessions. Voting on the appointment of Ivo Andrić as a member of the concession committee. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 29 votes "for", one "against", eight "abstained". I agree that Ivo Andrić has been appointed a member of the Commission for concessions. We move to a statement on the 19th point: The appointment of three members in the Interresor Working Group to prepare the draft law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions. The Interresor Working Group was established by the Council of Ministers. We are voting on the appointment of three members in the Interresor Working Group. They were proposed, as you heard in the first part, gentlemen: Bakir Izetbegović, Vinko Zorić and Momčilo Novaković. Please prepare to plead. Vote now! 28 votes "for", two "against", nine "abstained". I agree that the proposal was accepted and that Bakir Izetbegović, Vinko Zorić and Momčilo Novaković were elected to the Interresor group. 75 We move to a statement on the 20th item of the agenda: Adem Huskić's initiative to discuss BiH's property issue at one of the next sessions. We're pleading on the Initiative. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 votes "yes", with no votes "against", abstentioned 11. Insufficient entity majority. We can't agree now, you'll be informed of the results of the alignment. We move to 21st point: Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement on Economic Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovakia, (b) Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Slovakia on the promotion and mutual protection of investments, (c) Annex of the Agreement between BiH and the Kingdom of Norway on the financing of projects for the benefit of the judiciary and/or courts and prosecutors in BiH, (d) Protocol between the Ministry of Security of BiH - Border Police - and the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia - Police Directorates of the Republic of Croatia - on the official transit through the state area of the other Contracting Party in order to act on its own territory, (f) Protocol between the Ministry of Security of BiH - Border Police - and the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Croatia - Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia - the Republic of Croatia - Head of Security of the Police and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of the Republic of Croatia - the Republic of Croatia - the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and of Croatia - the Republic of Croatia on the Republic of Croatia - the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Croatia - the Republic of Croatia's of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia - the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Conventions prohibiting and restricting the use of certain types of conventional weapons, l) Agreement on credit between BiH and Raiffeisen Zentralbank of the Austrian Bank – the development of a water supply system in the Municipality of Laktashi, m) Memorandum of Understanding between the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and the World Health Organisation's Regional Office for Europe. 76 I propose that, within the framework of this point on all these agreements, conventions and other acts which require prior consent, we declare ourselves jointly in the package, so I am giving this proposal a statement. Who's up for this proposal? Vote now! 36 votes "for", two "against", one "abstained". I find this proposal accepted. We approach the statement on the whole 21st item of the agenda, from a) to m). Prepare to plead. Vote now! 39 votes "yes", without the vote "against", one "abstained" - I find that the Parliamentary House of BiH has given its consent to ratify the agreement referred to in the 21st point of the agenda, from a) to m). Before the agenda is concluded, I would like to brief you, with a little attention, that the College of the Parliamentary House of BiH has delivered the calendar of our meetings activities by the end of this year, which you are informed about, I hope, through this letter that has been sent to you. And here, please take care of these terms when planning your duties. I would also like to inform you that the College of the House of Representatives has directed an initiative towards the House of Peoples for the maintenance of the Joint College at which we would consider the term of holding a joint session in this period, which you will also be informed of in good time. Thank you for your attention. I am concluding the work of the 34th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives. The session's over at 4:30.
