ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19840	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 33rd session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. In addition to the representatives, our regular guests, presidents and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations, who regularly monitor the work of our home, are representatives of certain NGOs. I welcome all present representatives, our guests, as well as media representatives. According to the service's information, I'd like to conclude that there are 35 representatives present at the session. The absence was justified by Husein Nanić, Hadži Jovan Mitrović and Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here, I am now being informed that the second vice president, due to his illness, Mr. Živković justified his absence. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. You received a draft agenda in the invitation to the session. And this time we have some changes and supplements that I'm going to brief you on. At the request of the relevant committee on the agenda, the draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act was removed, the proposer of the esteemed representative Branko Dokić. That was point 10. In its request, the Commission points out that it postpones the debate in the first phase until the opinion of the Directorate for indirect taxation is delivered. The agenda includes the 3rd item Confirmation of the Council of Ministers' Decision on the appointment of the foreign trade and economic relations minister of BiH. Point 4 of the agenda includes the request of the Constitutional Legislative Commission to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Criminal Procedure of BiH following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. The 5th item included the request of MP Jerko Ivanković Lijanović for consideration of the proposal for a law on support for domestic production under the hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. 2 In the meantime, negative opinions have been delivered from the Commission on the draft laws under points 10, 11, 13 and 14 of the revised agenda, and in this regard, these points have been recast. And finally, at the last point, the granting of ratification consent, they added - the Agreement on credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bank Austria – the Building Water Supply Project of the Serb municipality; - the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development – the Road Infrastructure and Road Safety Project; - the Agreement on credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Raiffeisen Zentralbank Austrian Shareholders' Society – Modernisation of the University of Zenica. Here, these are changes and additions to the proposed agenda. You've received a consolidated draft agenda. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. I find that the 33rd session of the House of Representatives has the following 1. Approval of the minutes of the 32nd session of the House of Representatives; 2. Agents' questions and answers; 3. Confirmation of the Council of Ministers' Decision on the appointment of the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 4. Request of the Constitutional Legislative Commission to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the criminal procedure under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 5. The request of representative Jerka Ivanković Lijanović for consideration of the proposal for a law on support for domestic production by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties – MPs Šefik Džaferović, Niko Lozančić and Milorad Živković (second reading); 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer Adem Huskić (second reading); 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Ministrys and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), Law No 01-02-9-47-107 of 12.9.2007; 9. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, with Report of the Joint Defence and Security Committee, Law No 01-02-6-5807 of 17.9.2007; 10. Proposal for a law on the control of the movement of arms and military equipment, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee; 11. Proposal for a law on border control, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee; 3 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of Representative Milorad Živković, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration – Proposer of Representative Milorad Živković, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 15. Proposal for a decision to adopt Bosnia and Herzegovina's Transport Policy for the period 2008 to 2020; 16. Decision on the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces in the "Iraq Freedom" peace support operation in Iraq for confirmation – applicant of the BiH presidency; 17. Report by the Joint Committee on the text of the Single Parent Number Act; 18. Information on licences issued for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products for 2007; 19. Report by the College Committee on the Effort of Consent on the Proposal for a Law on Public Roads (first reading); 20. Report by the College's Committee on Seeking to reach agreement on a proposal for receipt to the Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2007; 21. Report by the Commission of the College on the attempt to reach agreement on the proposals for the conclusions and amendment for the review of the report on the work and financial operations of the Public Business News and Issues Organisation Official Journal of BiH for 2007, and a) Conclusion of the SNSD Club (in three points), (b) Conclusion of 1st Representative Momčilo Novaković, (c) Amendment of Representatives of Remzija Kadrić on the proposal for the conclusion of the Finance and Budget Committee; 22. Report from the Committee of the College on the Efforts of Consent on Conclusion No 4. of the Report of the Committee on Transport and Links and Proposal for the conclusion of Mr Jerko Ivanković Lijanović on the debate on the point of business of the Public TV Service of BiH and measures to overcome the situation of the audit reports for 2005 and 2006; 23. Granting approval for ratification (a) The credit agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the OPEC Fund for International Development – The construction of railways of shares (I) Sarajevo - Bradina, (b) the credit agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bank Austria Credit Assessment AG – the Water Supply Project in the municipality of Srbac, (c) the financing agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development – Road Infrastructure and Security Project, d) the Agreement on credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Raiffeisen Zentralbank Austrian Stock Society – Modernisation of the University of Zenica. 4 We move to the first point of the established agenda Ad. 1. The adoption of the 32nd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19844	Thank you. I will continue, and I have said that at each session of Parliament I will ask a parliamentary question about the property of the former Communist Union that the SDP is illegally using. And once again, I warn the Council of Ministers that it is working on this Parliament's decision to register the property and return it to the real owner. For today, I'm asking the BiH Attorney General's Office. I ask BiH's Attorney General to answer my question: What and when will he do to compensate the state of BiH for the direct and indirect damage caused by the use of the former assets of the Communist Union? Explanation: As earlier in the BiH Parliament meetings, through parliamentary issues, I pointed to this illegal action, i.e. The biggest kidnapping of state property by the SDP, and today I will repeat. And I will repeat every session until this issue is resolved and returned to the real owner. 5 Your final answer, meaning by the defender, is satisfied, for real estate in Alipasina Street, because it was short notice; it confirms that SDP is not a tutilar of property rights or owner of the property in question because it is not registered in public books, and is mentioned real estate owned by BiH. You've seen the cadastre, you've seen everything, a copy, so it's all crystal clear. As it comes to the great assets of the former Alliance of Communists in the entire BiH territory that the SDP has illegally acquired, I ask that this largest robbery and kidnapping of state property be resolved as quickly as possible and returned to the real owner – the BiH State and that BiH's Attorney Generalship initiate the procedure that all the funds the SDP has received for the lease of this property, with tight interest, return to the BiH state because the BiH state pays around 20 million KM annually for the lease and accommodation of state institutions. What country in the world would allow this? I have information in East Germany that former communists opened up to themselves, like this when they had, secret accounts abroad, and now they're using these secret accounts. Now, in order for our changed communists not to do the same, maybe they've already done a part of the money to be transferred, I'm asking that this be resolved as soon as possible and that it can be settled legally. Also, I ask the pravobranilaštvo's Office: So far, why has this unlawful use by the SDP not been annulled, in order to protect state property, and in view of the High Representative's decision to temporarily prohibit the use of state property until the adoption of the State Property Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19845	Thank you. The following is reported by the esteemed representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19846	turned off the microphone
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19847	I'd like you to turn on the microphone to the esteemed representative, Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19848	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I have today one parliamentary question addressed to the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Resorship and the competent state institutions, and it says: What can you and you intend to do at a more professional staff relationship and organised traffic management at border crossings with the Republic of Croatia, especially on weekends and holidays when the columns of our citizens are employed in the west, coming home and returning to work, unnecessarily exposed to waiting and harassing at the border, thus bringing ugly impressions and mass pictures of BiH? 6 A brief explanation: I am encouraged to ask this question with truly numerous and ugly impressions that, from our border crossings, our citizens and guests wear when crossing the border of BiH, in particular, on weekends and holidays, when a large number of our citizens, employed in the west, come home and return to work. I can understand that there is always no way to predict traffic at the border but I cannot understand that from weekends to weekends, from holidays to holidays you can see the same picture at some border crossings in which the column, several kilometers long, is waiting for entry or exit from BiH and that this is not a sign of the State Border Service and Customs Administration to organise at that time, to carry out more professional and rational border and customs controls and to avoid unnecessary harassment and better impressions when entering and leaving BiH. I was personally approached by more citizens to ask this question, and they literally said that, for example, on weekends or holidays, the entry and exit from BiH at the Maljevac border crossing near Velika Kladude – no longer torture, but torture. I am personally at the border crossing of Maljevac, so at Velika Klamuda, every weekend and holiday, in an opportunity to look at such a picture and Kladuša is then regularly exposed... [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19849	I thank the honourable representative. The next one was the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19850	Dear Chairman, distinguished guests from NGOs, gentlemen of media representatives, ladies and gentlemen of the Members of the Council of Ministers headed by the chairman, of course I will constantly renew my parliamentary questions to which I do not receive answers. So the first parliamentary question: will in our term of office, the next term, sometimes or never begin to return to the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church for the sake of peaceful life, because this Interreligious Council still gives some hope that there can be a peaceful and normal life here? But if the Serbian Orthodox Church under the '91 Decision. the years when the Executive Council has decided to return these assets, nothing is done until today, I ask: when will it start and when will I start to get answers to these questions? Second question. I don't think it's necessary for us to discuss the 2005 audit reports in 2008, I don't know what year, and our competent institutions don't give us at least information. I do not want to put pressure on the D.A. and the SIPA, but at least we can get information, as MPs of the state Parliament, whether any institution is the subject of processing or investigation, whether there have been illegal shops and businesses there, which is what we have found, and our commission has now delivered us a book of 455 pages and the situation has almost not changed. I'm not speeding up, I'm not asking, I'm not pressuring, but as an MP, I'm looking for information: 7 Have they gone into any business to see who did what there, with an accent on BHTV1, public service, has it started to clear up negative actions and jobs in these institutions? Thank you very much. NO ONE
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19851	"Thank you. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Selim Bešlagić. And I don't have any more reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19852	Dear Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected guests, respected members of the Council of Ministers! The Council of Ministers – The BiH Justice Ministry is responsible for ensuring that BiH legislation and its implementation, at all levels, are in line with the obligations of BiH stemming from the international agreement. BiH took responsibility for the old foreign exchange savings deposited with commercial banks, based in BiH, by the agreement on the issue of succession and the Law on the settlement of liabilities based on the account of the old foreign currency savings. By adopting the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, BiH has committed itself to protecting the rights of its citizens established by the European Convention and its protocols. However, such commitments are not carried out, which is why the European Court of Human Rights presents tens of thousands of savings filed against BiH, as well as Slovenia and Serbia. The European Court of Human Rights has reached a verdict in four cases, for refusing to execute the Council of Europe's judgments and has asked BiH to submit copies of the rulings to the Council of Europe by September 2008. Information is required on the enforcement of the European Court of Justice rulings and the enforcement of the request from the Council of Europe. According to... according to the foreign savings association, BiH courts refuse to conduct judicial proceedings related to the old foreign currency savings, although Article 5 does. The law on the settlement of liabilities on the basis of an old foreign savings account obliges. Instead of a trial, some courts, e.g. The Sarajevo municipal court, under the order of the BiH Court, sends the files in question to verification agencies that do not return them to the courts. The Agency for Financial, Information and Intermediate Services d.d. Sarajevo... for more than half a year have been detained files on lawsuits involving claims of more than two thousand savings. The APIF director claims there is no order from the Federal Finance Ministry to return the case to court. Among the cases contained, the Association for the Protection of Foreign Savings of BiH, filed in 11.11.2004 to determine the owner of the old foreign exchange savings account, removed the claim and the bearer of the obligations, both for domestic banks and banks based outside BiH, where it could not have been sent for ratification, and especially after the mandate of the agency was expired by law. 8 The European Court of Human Rights is seeking to put an end to the proceedings in BiH by Slovenian and Serbian banks, as Slovenia and Serbia have imposed a ban on BiH's court proceedings before their courts. The BiH court's refusal to judge, especially in the cases for the establishment and failure of the Council of Ministers in accordance with the decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court; they wanted no proceedings against Serbia and Slovenia before the European Court of Justice, in accordance with Article 33. The Convention, all the burden of responsibility from Slovenia and Serbia, will be transferred to BiH. My question is: Who is responsible in BiH and why is it that prevents and refuses to conduct judicial proceedings, execute court rulings and decisions related to old foreign savings? What are the material and immaterial political consequences for BiH? I ask for an answer in writing, from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Nikola Špirić, the BiH Ministry of Justice, Mr Bariša Čolak, President of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, Milorad Novković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19853	Thank you. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Muhamed Suljkanović. Mehmed, sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19854	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests! My question to the Council of Ministers and Resort Ministries is: What have the Council of Ministers and the competent ministries done so far to take over the European directives, what is the plan and dynamics of the takeover, and is it possible to speed up and adapt this process to the needs of the Bosnian Herzegovina economy? Explanation: The Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers of BiH with its decisions, laws and signed ratification of the SAA and the CEFTA Agreement, have taken the obligation that BiH will start the process of taking over European legislation in Bosnian Herzegovina legislation, thus removing barriers to the free flow of goods and services and reaching a high level of protection and security for our citizens. In both entities and Brcko District today, most of the technical regulations of the former SFRY are in force, and in BiH, according to these regulations, a large number of JUS standards are still in place, with mandatory application. Some of these rules will be replaced by the implementation of the technical requirements law on products and the assessment of compliance and the adoption of the European Union's new access directive under the Technical Regulations Programme provided for in Official Journal of BiH, issue 35/06. The process, however, takes place too slowly. It does not cover all aspects of security, especially in the area of equalising regulation from areas not covered by a new approach. Even products covered by the new approach cannot be safe for BiH citizens unless other important aspects are regulated at the same time – installation, use, service, maintenance, training. The application of the new international and European standards that BiH has assumed, which have taken over about 15,000 in BiH, introduce and use new technologies in sectors bh. the economy, the adoption of 9 and the unification of the rules of entities, districts and cantons and, finally, the promotion of a higher level of security of citizens are significantly conditioned by this process. His delay has a particular impact on the increase in risk, the number of accidents and victims in all areas of life and work. I'm looking for an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19855	Thank you. The next is the renowned representative Slavko Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19856	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Presidents of the Council of Ministers and representatives of the Council of Ministers, respected guests! My question to the Council of Ministers: How long has it been since the implementation of the funds foreseen in this year for the return of refugees and exiles, what problems arise in this process, and what are the ways and measures to remove them? A brief explanation: We are witnessing that in earlier years funds were often allocated to end-users only in the autumn or even in the winter months when construction works on rebuilding family facilities, for the sake of time, were very difficult or inexhaustible. Therefore, all efforts should be made to speed up the implementation process and funds to returnees should be made available as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19857	Thank you. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19858	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests and media! I have one parliamentary question before I only ask it as soon as I can. About six months ago, the BiH House of Representatives discussed the initiative on the adoption of a anti-corruption strategy in BiH, and I must say that there is an initiative, which I have personally submitted, the BiH House of Representatives and accepted. On the content of this initiative, the Council of Ministers of BiH, (I would now ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers for a little attention, given that I am asking them right now, I will tell you why, in the end), namely, the deadline for the Council of Ministers was three months. The three-month deadline, thus defined by the BiH House of Representatives, was also delivered to the BiH Council of Ministers. And, as we've heard, the chairman himself says he'll get to it. I hope that it came to him, and at this time of 10, I remind you that the deadline has expired, more than three months have passed that the deadline is not currently respected by the BiH Council of Ministers. So I ask a simple question for the chairman of the Council of Ministers and ask for an oral answer now, at the end of this part of the issue, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, so I have spoken if possible a little attention. So, my question: Why has the Council of Ministers of BiH not yet respected this conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which was obliged by the BiH Council of Ministers to draft and deliver this strategy to the BiH Parliament? So, I ask the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers and ask for an oral answer here at the session, given that this is a rare opportunity for us to ask a question to someone from the Council of Ministers, especially if we have in mind how we end up with the answers to the questions in which we are looking for answers, is it, in writing. So here is why, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask the question and after the end of the matter, I ask the Council of Ministers to tell us why there is no strategy, since all the analyses talk about the rise in crime and corruption in the country?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19859	Thank you. Are there any more applications for representation issues? Dear Representative Todorović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19860	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! My question is to the Food Safety Agency. We recently received material from the aforementioned agency that refers to genetically modified organisms. The authors of this material are designated as experts. My request, and the question is: to provide me with their metricity, or references, how much this material costs, what literature was used, and through their references will be seen their works from this area, the commitment of the author when it comes to genetically modified organisms. I'm looking for a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19861	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19862	Dear Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of Ministers, colleagues and MPs, I have one request to the College and one parliamentary question to the Council of Ministers. A request to the College: I would ask you to provide a thematic session of both homes at which the Council of Ministers would answer parliamentary questions. In fact, in this session, we haven't yet achieved this initiative. Secondly, also in this request, I would ask you to address the Council of Ministers – is there a possibility of a direct answer to parliamentary questions? This primarily concerns responsibility to the legislative authority and responsibility of the legislative authority, elected representatives to BiH citizens. So that would be to consider that possibility. And my parliamentary question to the Council of Ministers is, in fact, I demand that I be provided with information: What activities has the Council of Ministers done so far in preparation for the BiH census, including until 2011. And the reason for my question is that it is one of the recent obligations of the BiH authorities towards meeting the path... on BiH's path to European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19863	Thank you. Just for the sake of the accuracy of the information, we have already organised this in this term session at which the MPs asked, the Council of Ministers responded, but does not mean that it should not be organised again. I am now asking, since there are no more applications to ask questions, I am asking the chairman of the Council of Ministers - can he answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19864	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19865	Thank you. We move to the third point of the established agenda: Ad. 3. Confirmation of Council of Ministers' Decision on the appointment of Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations On 16 July 2008, we received a decision on the appointment of the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations from the chairman of the Council of Ministers. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee of the House of Representatives for the Preparation of the Council of Ministers' Elections discussed the proposal for a decision with the documents submitted to the House and delivered an opinion on the similarity of the candidates. You've seen the opinion. The House of Representatives Committee recommends that it confirm the appointment of Mladen Zirojević as foreign trade and economic relations minister. I will comply with Article 142. Rules of Procedure to read the Decision on appointment. On the basis of Article 10. The Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH "The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 30/03, 42/03, 81/06, 76/07, 81/07 and 94/07, and 24/08, I bring 12 OD L U K U U U on the appointment of the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH Article 1. As foreign trade and economic relations minister, BiH is called Mladen Zirojević. Article 2 The decision takes effect on the date of confirmation appointed by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Dr Nikola Špirić wants to speak to the appointed minister. It's a possibility you don't have to use. So you have a chance if you want. You don't want to. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19867	I, as I believe other MPs, also received an explanation of the Decision appointing BiH Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister signed by the chairman, Nikola Špirić, and I must say here that, reading this argument, in the first paragraph here, where the reasons for making such a decision are said that the former BiH Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister, Mr Slobodan Puhalac, has resigned from the BiH Council of Ministers from, as stated here in this decision, personal reasons for the complex family situation. Of course, nothing would be disputed if I didn't say, and doubtful that the same minister had already taken up another post in the entity government, so in the government of the RS. So I have to say that a little bit of this explanation makes it look unconvincing. Of course, when it comes to this argument, I want to remind you of the following facts. I, the chairman of the Council of Ministers who signed this statement, publicly here in Parliament, said that because of the great importance of matters to be done at the state level, he needed a strong team, and in connection with this finding he urged all parties in BiH to propose candidates who could respond to the tasks that BiH faces. The question arises: did this finding of a strong team not refer to this minister or was it something else? I also remind myself that the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers himself, among other things, said that all members of the BiH Council of Ministers must be team players, dedicated workers, etc. which is due to compensate all of BiH's backlogs from previous years. So these were announcements by the BiH Council of Ministers chairman. Of course, we all know in this country that BiH is still late in many segments, especially when it comes to its accession to the EU, but for a moment we should put it aside. I think it would be good if the chairman himself of the Council of Ministers answered a few questions when it comes to this agenda. The first question is: 13 What really are the real reasons for the withdrawal of Minister Puhalac? Of course, it would be good here in front of parlament to say what Prime Minister Špirić's position is on this. I think that in BiH there has never been such a situation that one prime minister asked less than is asked today's chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, I personally think that the chairman has the ability and the power to do much more than he does, but apparently he is limited to a number of issues. I think that in these methods of work, where certain state ministers from the state government or, to be precise, from the Council of Ministers of BiH are withdrawn, and then named ministers, and in very demanding ministries, here in this case, the entity government, are not exactly appropriate to democratic states, and especially countries that want to come to the EU as soon as possible. Of course, if we haven't read it, at least we've heard about reports from a number of NGOs, from the Centre of Civil Initiatives and beyond, where we're talking about the extremely poor results of individual ministries, so we have some ministries that haven't even realised from 5% to 10% of what was planned. The question arises -- is it possible in another country other than BiH that state ministers would just withdraw from the state government and then name themselves in some province, regionally, in this case an entity government? I think this is a precedent where we rarely find an example in any other European country. In my opinion, basically, this means re-degradation, in a way, and the humiliation of the state authorities, and that's why I'm asking the question -- how long? Why am I saying that? We are all witnesses, at least no one can deny it in this House, that very often we are in a position that only the Council of Ministers led by the Council of Ministers makes certain decisions, etc., and then individual entity powers, government presidents, etc., say what I care about those Council decisions or what I care about that decision. In this way, the credibility of the BiH state authorities is not created. In this way, we will certainly not speed up the path towards the EU. I think that the Council of Ministers should build a certain dignity and that this way should not be dealt with by people working at the Council of Ministers who, apparently, led by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, are hardly wondering when key decisions are at stake and the key direction of the country's development. Of course, someone might deny it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19868	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19869	Time's up? Okay, I respect the Rules of Procedure, and this concludes my discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19870	Dear Representative Kalabić, is it a replica or a debate? Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19871	Gentlemen, the chairman, honourable fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, I would like to try to briefly characterise this discussion of Mr Bećirović. I thought it would be brief and, 14 I mean, this is untasteful, inappropriate and a little stupid, in this way, at this point, discussing this situation and this point of the agenda. I know he belongs to a political party that has inherited the idea of peeking into other people's beds, into other people's fates, into people's private lives, and that they don't give it up. To talk about a man whose, probably, biography and doesn't know and who doesn't know his or his private problems, or everything that follows him, I think it's inappropriate this way. A man who resigns, it's his personal act that, in a way, you can't comment on. You had a chance, if you were dissatisfied with Minister Puhalac, to run a shift here, to raise the question of his responsibilities in some other way. However, in this way represent the private problems of man and bring them into a whole other context, a context where you are pathologically burdened! I told you in the last session that you will solve this pathological burden and how you will solve your problem with the RS, with Milorad Dodik, with the Government of the RS, but I see no reason to bring about today's election of a new minister. And we're really sorry that Minister Puhalac resigned. I think it was a very correct minister who, to the satisfaction of both the Council of Ministers and this Parliament, was doing his job and, if anyone can express his regret, then it can express regret, because we know the reasons for his... and his private reasons, and the problems that man had and who tried to overcome for a long time. However, I wouldn't remind you of Mr. Puhalac's family tragedy and all. I think it's inappropriate in this weather, because it's after you quit, it's gone, there's no need for that. But we are also pleased that today we are getting a very competent minister, a man before whom there must be a demanding work at the Council of Ministers, which we absolutely have no doubt, not only will there be a worthy replacement for the previous minister but on the contrary that he will even give an additional... to make additional effort and to improve the work of this ministry. And that's why I think in this way, I thought it would talk about the ministry's work, possibly a new minister, but, in the context of a private position of man and his resignation and... his life choices, I think it's incorrect and inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19872	Thank you. Inaccurate quote, the esteemed representative Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19873	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, I had to report for two incorrect allegations made by counterpart Bećirović. In fact, at this point in the agenda, I really didn't expect to have a discussion about some personal reasons why one minister left and another one was appointed. In particular, when it comes to SNSD personnel, because he was in no way invited, neither he nor the SDP, to discuss it, that he was discussing it, who was resolved and who was appointed. He said that such a move, in fact, is an example to him that the prime minister, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers, is not asking anything or wondering about large issues in the Council of Ministers. It's a completely incorrect finding, because I know for a fact that the SDP doesn't mind, or whenever the prime minister asks, and when it's not asked, and how much is it, it bothers them that the SDP is not at all wondering, nor will they be asked. Here, I tell you 15 here publicly and openly – you will not ask about the government, surely by October 2010! And that's what's bothering you and bothering you, and now you're hiding behind it, as you're supposedly sorry if the Prime Minister is wondering something or not. Another incorrect finding, he said, by such a procedure, the withdrawal of one minister, the appointment of an entity government and the appointment of a new person as minister in the Council of Ministers' "demeanor and degradation of state institutions". It's one notorious lie, especially because it can't be prescribed to the SNSD that we reach out to such actions. We are also very aware of the responsible situations and moves we are making, whether it is the president of our party, ministers, MPs or any other officials. And finally, Mr. Bećirović, let me tell you, that you are not giving in or wasting needless words and energy on SNSD personnel, you will never wonder about it, nor will you be able to influence any way about who will be appointed and appointed functionaries from our party.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19874	The word has been respected by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Dr Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19875	Sir, Madam Chairman, esteemed colleagues, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, Ministers, Deputy Ministers, Representatives of Public Information Funds, I thought at the very beginning to address the need for some, perhaps, unnecessary questions at the moment, but the matter of the MPs, of course, is to ask everything they are interested in. I am sorry that, perhaps in this way, what we can do in the short term can end up being committed, of course, in the interests of BiH and its citizens. But, of course, MPs from the opposition can ask those questions that they think should be answered. What are the real reasons for Mr. Puhalac's withdrawal from the Council of Ministers? I don't think... I have one reason to speak to you in writing, and another to speak to you orally. I'm sorry your reasons existed. Mr. Puhalac has long asked him to resign, I asked him to be part of the team until the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. He respected it. His family reasons are such content as to require him to be more dedicated and closer to his family, I absolutely understood that. I would like to thank Mr. Puhalac today for one correct co-operation and the denial he gave in the work of the Council of Ministers. Today you have a new name for the minister, and this is Mladen Zirojević. I think his biography: born '68 in Sarajevo, a graduate lawyer, speaks English, has an envious biography, a working biography, which a colleague who asks a question may not be able to praise, but that is also the fate of us who deal with politics. The fluctuation of personnel in BiH is desirable. I know many colleagues, my friends who were state deputies, ministers, today across the entity of one, the other, Brcko District, perform important functions for the BiH state. I don't think they matter less that they're there, they're just doing their job the best. It is not true, I think, and that is what I am sorry for, the public does, I must say that the success of this country seems to be more visible outside BiH than in BiH. I think that this year behind us has been a year of success for BiH, that we have signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, have received an intensified dialogue in NATO, have done many legislative projects, and this is simply the Council of Ministers' credit, regardless of whether they want to see it or not. And I'm asking you to give our success a more warm promotion in ordinary people. Namely, that's the production of patriotism they were talking about. It doesn't matter who the government is, who the opposition is, that's what the citizens are asking. I have as much competence as the BiH Constitution has given me, no less. When you create a new situation in the Council of Ministers, regardless of who will be there, it will also work in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Here, I invite you today to help us, to accept today's appointment of a new minister, an opportunity for another former minister to thank me, to thank the V.D. Minister Vilim Primorac, who has also worked successfully for a month and a half and worked successfully within the Council of Ministers. But here's the deal for the SNSD to give the ministers and we are now in a position to get a good, young minister. I think it's a declarative policy of the SDP, and I'm sorry that I don't really see the support of those young people they're up for. But it's also a matter of course of the opposition to ask what they want. I ask you, therefore, to strengthen, therefore, to support the work of the Council of Ministers. The country that signed the agreement, got a new step on the road to NATO, which has built so many reforms, is simply not a failed country, it can be faster, it can be more successful, but I urge you to work together on that road, because there is no opposition in the sky so that it is the failure of those of us on earth. We all share the fate of this country. Help make it better. Here I am calling you openly to help you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19876	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19877	I'll take the turn. I'm not going to replicate much to Mr. Kalabić, since he's usually distracted, so he doesn't listen to what his colleagues are telling him, so he sleeps through a good part of his discussions and then talks about things that no one has ever mentioned, and that's his problem. Of course, his problem is his vocabulary, too, but let's put that aside. I want to talk about other things. I wasn't talking about personal connotations here at all, but I was talking about, first of all, the need to respect the integrity of state institutions. In every respect, and we are all in BiH about common practice and I would say a growing trend in BiH that neither the state nor the state authorities in BiH are respected, and that is the essence of what I was talking about. I think this is just the culmination of a process that has been here but not to say for years, but surely for months it has been going on in BiH and, of course, here, in its presentation of the Council of Ministers chair, it has not been able to disprove the the thesis that he himself, at the head of the BiH Council of Ministers, as chairman, is making a decision and the entity prime minister is saying - what do I care about that decision, it does not apply to me. That's not good practice. And whether you admit it or not, I want to say publicly that BiH must go to the EU in a different way, BiH has its own Constitution, let everyone do, while respecting this constitution, its part of the affairs under its jurisdiction, and not in any way in a way that degrades, demeans or tells me what I care about Council of Ministers decisions. This is even more difficult to bear in mind that the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia is that people are of the same political option. 17 Obviously, it would be good for the BiH Council of Ministers to start doing its part of the job and it would be good if Mr Špirić had more independence to do his job within the BiH Council of Ministers, not to experience permanent humiliations such as the RS Prime Minister, whether he wants to admit it or not. In this parliament, everyone is looking forward to BiH's success, but does not look forward to it when some of the top officials are even destroying the BiH state's flag. I don't know if they're destroying her because they hate her, because they don't recognize her or what, but it's not a good message. It would be good, so to turn truly towards the European path, to respect the BiH Constitution as it is, until we get better, and to have more respect and respect for each other than it has ever been.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19878	Thank you. To begin with, it would be good to stick to the established agenda and Rules of Procedure. Business intervention, first of all, respected representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19879	Mr. Chairman, here, I mean, now there's no point after what you said. Namely, Article 71. It obliges you to warn lawmakers when they are not discussing the agenda, and counterpart Bećirović, unfortunately, did not discuss much on the agenda. And if I can get a replica, not to answer again, I'll just say one thing. We in the opposition would do well to change as many ministers as possible in the Council of Ministers. I don't really see why the opposition would be against the change in the Council of Ministers. I think it would be good for some who are now sitting on the Council of Ministers to resign as soon as possible. So, I think we're in the opposite direction, or that, by looking for the position of the opposition, we've gone in the wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19880	Honorable Council of Ministers Chairman Dr Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19881	I just want the nicest thing to do is ask this job, according to the Rules of Procedure, to bring it to an end. I can't simply understand certain discussions. counterpart Bećirović turns out to regret that Slobodan Puhalac will strengthen Prime Minister Dodik's government, and here he said it was a poor work being a minister. I just feel it would be good to listen to my story every time after my colleague Bećirović sits, except he likes to watch himself often in the mirror, but I think Mr Dodik, as RS government president, is doing his job well. I have good co-operation, we are from the same political party. It might be good for the SDP to think about integration, but that would not mean his membership in the party, because this kind of discipline and loyalty to his party chief, even in Stalin's time, I didn't see it. Maybe your leader likes to listen to that story of yours that cheers you up like clockwork. I have absolute freedom, I have absolute freedom to govern the Council of Ministers, but I respect the entity prime ministers. It's simply impossible in this country, as I respect you. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19882	Thank you. Dear Representative Zorić has applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19883	No, I'm not into replica, although I would also have something to say in the replica, I'm just going to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Bećirović, who is, and I'm saying that for reasons that it's not good for certain MPs to attack among themselves, and it's even harder to defend themselves, so I'm going to say that it's not true that, as he said, Drago Kalabić is deconcentrated as usual. He may have been distracted at this point, but I have to say, because in two committees together with my colleague and IPU's delegation, he's very focused and that the finding that he is normally deconcentrated is not correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19884	Honourable representative Kalabić: reply to the replica; then the distinguished representative Križanović: replica; then the distinguished representative Dokić: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19885	I think it's really inappropriate, and I expected it to be about this point that it would still be a small solemn act and that it wouldn't lead to this situation and I tried to warn you. Unfortunately, I warned in line with that folk "with gentlemen of gentlemen and with others differently," because you can't go any other way with the one who's stubborn and who you can't, who deserves a certain vocabulary, because he's just looking for it. We are just when we turn here to what the Council of Ministers has said, when we turn to our problems and tasks, when we turn to our problems and tasks, someone here insists at all costs to bring in Prime Minister Dodik, to drag in RS, to drag in, have a business opportunity to be a thematic session, there are various ways to do so, not on such issues. I'm really sorry that this is going in this direction and that we tried to, in a way, defuse this kind of discussion from the opposition. I am fully, because I am tasked with listening precisely to what he says, Mr. Bećirović, since there is no Zlatko Lagumdžija who rebuked him last time and corrected his discussion, today I must do it myself. It is inappropriate to place a person’s personal act in the context of what is being said today. It's inappropriate and immoral. If someone submitted, and we all know it as his friends, resigning for personal reasons, and we know what these personal reasons are, I said it was inappropriate to bring it into contact with pathological burden – Milorad Dodik, RS and Government. That's inappropriate. You have the opportunity to talk a lot about it, but I would really ask you to hold on to your strength today, when it comes to this act, not to bring it into context. It's not good that you're rolling in mud or NGOs. It's not good to take care of certain NGOs, you just create problems, create your own portfolios and put them in an awkward situation. This Council of Ministers is being decided by this parliament and it has absolute support, has what has been fully proven, and their ministers and ministries have positive assessments. The fact that certain NGOs, which have several thousand, don't think differently, that's 19 democracies, that's their right, and we listen to that voice, but normally, I am, it's clear that our position here is to decide. The provision of this parliament in such a way that the opinion of a non-governmental organisation is more important than the opinion of this parliament is a persistent collapse of the state, it is persistently desecrating it. We've warned for a long time that this is the center of decision-making, that it's decided here, but someone has been insisting on turning us away from it and putting peripheral things in the central place, which, I hope, will not be welcomed in a positive way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19886	Dear Representative Križanović: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19887	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and I thought today would be this, at least on this agenda point, one small ceremony, because we're getting a new minister. However, you see, it is one legitimate intervention from counterpart Bećirović to seek an answer to this and an explanation of why it was a resignation, whether there are deeper reasons in the Council of Ministers, etc. but it turned into one attack on a colleague, Bećirović, but also on the SDP. And that's why I couldn't stay in place without reacting, because here, watch out for the pasture, as through some replicas began to share various epithets with a political party participating in this House. Well, you see, if I hadn't gone and counted and replicated all the inconsistencies we've heard here, I'd be looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19888	At the request of the SDP Club, stop by 11.45. [[PAUZA]] Before we continue, I will ask you, if possible, to give up intended replicas, corrections, etc., and if not, then we will go in order as you apply. The president of the SDP Club for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19890	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I was saying, when we asked for this break, we were indeed caught by this reaction by some colleagues that on a legitimate requirement to give the explanation of the previous resignation of the previous minister and something to tell us about the new candidate as minister, which is a legitimate, legitimate right of this home that gives consent to the appointment of ministers, we unfortunately moved here as SDP, an attack, a concentrated attack on SDP, and that was the reason that we would either seek or engage in a controversy that would last more than half an hour – we decided to use these half-hours to contribute to an atmosphere in which we could do this more normally. We are particularly sorry that such attacks on one political party include even the chairman of the Council of Ministers, from which we expected 20 to answer calmly and easily those questions that the explicits were raised here. If we've contributed to this return to normal, we'll be pleased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19891	Thank you. So there's no re-enactment for replicas. So, the SNSD club gave up on the replicas. There have been reports of debates. That's why I'm asking, so, well, now we're discussing it in this order. Dear Representative Selim Bešlagić, then Jerko Ivanković, and Branko Dokić. There you go, my dear.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19892	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, honored guests, above all, I must express my regret that Mr. Puhalac resigned, but we didn't know any of his reasons. Here, today when we heard that this tragedy was personal, I am even more sorry that this reason has forced Mr. Puhalac to resign, which I accept as a fact. Because it seems to me that one of the few ministries that worked, in my opinion, was, in my opinion, well and which tried to make its maximum contribution, was the reason why I came forward, because we didn't get Mr. Mladen Zirojević's biography in our materials because, in my deep conviction, that biography needed me as an MP, because I still have to decide in this House as much as all of you, not as a party, but as an individual. I needed the right to give Mr. Mladen Zirojević support, or refrain from those rights. I'm sorry I didn't get that biography, unfortunately. I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers for pointing out some, but compared to Mr. Puhalac, I'm saying that, I think I'm going to get a biography that could convince me of what...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19893	We got a biography.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19894	We didn't get the biography, Mr. Belkić, the commission got the biography, we didn't. I asked the MPs. If I had been given a biography, I wouldn't be having this kind of discussion; for these reasons, here,...procedurally perhaps error, which led to this condition, and I would ask again, if possible, not now, but if that biography came, here is after this solemn act that will follow after the election of Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19895	Thank you. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19896	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests, the 6-year-old ruling six agreed on a reduction in the foreign trade deficit by the agreement of 3.7.2007. The new minister will obviously have his hands full because of this obligation to reduce the external trade deficit has essentially failed to do so more significantly, however, it increased 50% compared to 2006. Me and the People's Party will contribute to the improvement as much as possible and help the Minister as possible to make the commitment as effective as possible under the Agreement, i.e. that the measures it intends to take in the next period, at least to stop the further growth of the deficit, and then try to slow down slowly, because basically our citizens are not rich enough to allow practically through the deficit the money from their pockets to end up in the pockets of citizens of some other countries. I have no intention of estimating now, I think we should give everyone a chance, and already after the summer break we'll have a chance to see, possibly, the Minister's moves what he wants and how he wants to do and then we'll be able to assess whether these moves are good or bad. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19897	Thank you. Dear Representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19898	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'm using this opportunity to thank Minister Puhalac for a very professional job he's done in the past a little over a year, a year and a half. On this occasion, I would like to say that he was one of the best ministers in the current Council of Ministers, and from that point of view quite certain that the Council of Ministers had lost one extremely professional and responsible minister. This does not mean that I support some discussions that are related to such questions about his changing his workplace. We have before us, and we also knew that Minister Puhalac would be an excellent minister given all his professional career, which was very rich and was completely in the area where he was minister; we have a young fellow full of enthusiasm who we cannot guarantee in advance that he will be as successful as Minister Puhalac. But his youth and that enthusiasm alone leave enough hope and it is an opportunity for him to have this chance and today, I believe, to receive after the vote and to take advantage of it, and to the MPs, after a few months, to assess how much he is using or not. By the time I've heard from you, Mr. Chairman, you'll allow one suggestion. I especially appreciate your position in which you are personally. But I would ask that during the debate and discussion when any MP, here is Branko Dokić, turn from the agenda to warn him at the very least. In this way there will be less need, and even take away the word, there will be less need for replicas. And I'd suggest to my fellow MPs that he doesn't shoot himself too hard on the replicas. It's probably enough to have one replica on certain things, and I'd like to remind you 22 of an excellent thought of dostojevski, which says, "When you go towards a specific goal, if you throw yourself at each dog that barks, you'll never reach the finish line." Chairman, define the target and lead to that goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19899	I thank you for your suggestions, although they are not within the existing agenda point, but I accept them. The following has applied for the debate, according to a respected representative, Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19900	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, it is difficult to return to the problem of foreign trade after dostojevski, of course. But here, let me, because of the way today's debate took place, in the name of the Party's MPs' Club for BiH, I had to answer for the discussion not to dispute, of course, the right of MPs, other MPs and other parties to discuss persons that were specifically in the ministry or that would eventually be after today's session. I expected that if there were to be a discussion on this subject, it would be more focused on the Ministry of Foreign Trade itself, that is, the fact that most of the activities and burdens in the process of approaching the EU and implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement fall on the burden of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, that most of the activities that are being led to membership in the World Trade Organisation, we hope, finally, fall also on the burden of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. That a good part of the activities, i.e. the largest part of the activities in terms of realising the obligations to join the CEFTA, fall under the burden of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. And to mention that most of the demands, sometimes unrealistic, by this Parliament or individuals in this House, in terms of amendments to the law, etc. falls on the burden of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. I just want to absorb the need to have the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations as soon as possible. Here, of course, thanks to Minister Puhalac's good work so far, I think we have a new minister's appointment ahead of us, and that it would be good for us to talk, if we talk about a new minister, to wish him to start solving the problems with which the ministry is defined or subject to the things he deals with and to wish him to end all these activities as soon as possible and fulfil his obligations. If this parliament should be a little more concerned with the ministry, then it would be good to ask why we have two foreign trade and economic relations ministers for the second four-year term. I want to believe that the greatest part of this is the reason and the greatest part of the burden on this ministry and I pray that both my fellow Members and my fellow Members can discuss it, if we lead it, we lead in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19901	Thank you. The following has been reported by honourable representative Adem Huskić. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19902	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19903	So, no more reports. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. The request of the Constitutional Legal Commission to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Criminal Procedure of BiH following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure On 25 July 2008, the Constitutional Commission delivered the draft law procedure at this point, with the request to be considered by a hasty procedure. The bill has been submitted to you. I'm opening a debate on a request for an emergency procedure. The chairman of the Constitutional Commission, the esteemed Šefik Džaferović, reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19905	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My koleginica and colleagues, this is a law that contains no substance in itself, because it is essentially decided by this parliament. It contains some formal issues which, in the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, could not be resolved only by intervention in the form of repairs or corrections of the text of this law. It is about the Code of Criminal Procedure, I will only briefly remind you that at one of the previous sessions, we adopted amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure and that this time we authorised the Constitutional Commission, on its proposal made by this House, to clarify the consistency of the appeal to certain provisions of the Law before the publication of the Law, because there was a shift in order of members of the Law. Unfortunately, the law managed to go to the "Official Messenger of BiH" before the Constitutional Commission did this, but that is not the problem either. The problem is when we sat down and started with the Justice Department to coordinate these provisions. We have seen that there are several provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedures that were not subject to an amendment, which also required to carry out the same intervention. Instead of Article 24(6), the appeal now to Article 24 (1) is a new position of that member added and not wanting the Constitutional Commission to take any burden of responsibility on itself – since it is incurring to a member of the Law which was not subject to amendment and supplementation, we may have been able to do so by repairing it, but I, first and foremost, and then all the colleagues from the Commission did not want to take on that kind of responsibility – and then we decided that, of course, we decided to decide this Parliament even formally because it had decided essentially already decided. That way, of course, we introduce a more serious approach or a fully responsible approach when the law is published by Wednesday. I'm asking you to fix this formally, and basically we voted like this law. 24 For the College I would only have one request – to ask the House of People, if possible, these days to hold a session, to find this issue on the agenda, and to certainly the text of the law..., I hope, today adopt the House of Representatives, deliver to the Court of BiH to know that we are in this procedure, to take care of it. It won't cause any confusion in practice, because the judges who judge they know what they're calling for. So, it's not a problem, but it's about pedanticity and some future relationship and everything that follows law-making we've decided to go through with this kind of intervention. I suggest you support, therefore, an emergency procedure, and, of course, the text of the law itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19906	Thank you. No more reports? He has a respected representative, Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19907	I must say that I support all of this and all the reasons for this request that the law be referred to the procedure... by emergency procedure. However, when the proponent has the ambition to adopt the law without repairs, it is necessary to be careful how it draws up a proposal for amendments and additions, i.e. the bill's proposal. So I'm going to say, in the version of the law in Croatian, I've seen four mistakes that aren't, they're not true, and I don't know how to fix it, but amendments. And that's the only reason why I won't support this request to go according to emergency procedures, because it often happens that we only consider the Croatian version if it writes an article and possibly July. So, yes, I don't know why not, why the service didn't write the entire text of this law in Croatian.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19908	I thank the honourable representative. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, here to respond to the name of the promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19909	... because, just because of the need for the equal use of languages that are officially used in BiH, I want to say this. So to change everyone who thinks that language version of their language is not the wording they should be. I signed, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, three copies in Bosnian, three copies in Serbian and three copies in Croatian. So it will be through all the acts signed by the Constitutional Commission and I ask the services, so that they are lecturing, we have lecturers to take care of this observation made by Mr Vinko Zorić, because... we do not need these situations. So we can avoid them by writing the way it's supposed to be written. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19910	Thank you. Dear First Vice-President Beriz Belkić. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19911	So, with a warning to all of us that we should not be brought into situations like this and, unfortunately, we often find that in some way post-festum we see some gaps, etc., but with the Constitutional Commission’s recognition that it has found a way and took advantage of this possibility of an emergency procedure, I came out most of all to ask you to support this emergency procedure request. No matter how much information I have had at the session of the Constitutional Commission, there were a number of members missing, but through the talks with them, I think we could go in the direction of supporting urgent procedure and adoption, because it is a very important law. And these changes and additions are really consistent, in a way they really are something that we shouldn't have a disagreement and I really pray, of course, by respecting what Mr. Zorić is talking about but these are things that can be fixed without amendments, if I understand, if they are linguistic, etc. And that's what the services can do. So, if there are no more serious objections, I do urge that when we come to the vote to support this emergency procedure and adopt it. And if there are any discrepancies, let's discuss them now and eventually remove them.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19912	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić reporting.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19913	Well, here's the fact. He now reminded the Vice-President, as far as I know, that three members of the Constitutional Legal Commission, and all three of the Serb people, none of them were at the Commission's session, as far as I know, and it's not about the very essence, it's about a very important matter and when we talk about consistency and when we talk about reconciliation and then these terms, and we're going to carry out further consultations. But I'm not in the meantime, but at this point, we're not close to being prepared to support an emergency procedure. We don't dispute the need for reconciliation but I'm not sure the reasons for the emergency procedure are because of the weight and what the predecessors have said is that there is a need for these ambiguities to be delayed.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19914	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point five: 26 Ad. 5. The request of representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović for consideration of the proposal for a law on support for domestic production by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure The proposal for this law was submitted in the procedure on 25 July 2008. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the request for an emergency procedure is included in the agenda. I'm opening a debate on a request for an emergency procedure. Dear Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19916	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, we have been having a discussion about this topic in this house for more than a year. A little over a year ago, when CEFTA came to this home, we discussed and pointed to the consequences, actually the situation that awaits us in the next period. And considering that we also understood the situation, unanimously in this home CEFTA has been ratified, and I think that these laws that should balance our relations within CEFTA countries would be good if they were adopted unanimously as CEFTA is adopted, without sharing the position and opposition, because this is the interest of both entities and cantons and municipalities and all three peoples and other citizens of this country. Because an economy like this is actually going to have inconceivable consequences if we don't do something in this Parliamentary Assembly. Indicators... in the first six months of this year speak in favour of having us inside CEFTA countries, and even in percentages although the percentages here are not the right indicator, imports are growing in relation to exports by about 5%. Now imagine, if these percentages grow in a negative direction, it's only an absolute amount when we know what the numbers in the exchange were. The total deficit of BiH in 2006 was 6 billion marks, increased to 8, nearly a billion in the first half of this year than in the first half of last year, which means we will have a record 10 billion marks by the end of the year. This is the key reason for the rush procedure, because every day the damage is getting bigger, the consequences will be getting bigger every day and, in fact, every day before a measure will save certain jobs that, when they are shut down, are likely to be difficult to rebuild again. A special deficit from neighbouring two countries, which reflects 30% of our total deficit, suggests that we have to regulate relations in a more high-quality way from those two neighbouring countries, to establish a more equal match so that free trade can give those essential effects, i.e. increase competitiveness and enable economic growth. And like this, when we don't have the same conditions, then free trade is practically not free trade in its very spirit, but it becomes a one-sided trade that is essentially causing inconspicuous damage to the BiH economy. Given that, here is an example, the Republic of Croatia this year stands out 6 billion kuna in the incentives for agriculture, that it has access to pre-accession EU funds and that it has the opportunity to do so much more if not more withdrawing funds from the EU, now imagine, their producers with several billion marks approach our producers, essentially, in a single competition and in advance, the situation is well known. A similar situation is with Serbia. In the draft law, you have received, in Annex 2, and the status of these products for which customs collection is proposed, what status they have in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I think it is also very important, because we will see that neither of the EU countries have fully abolished 27 customs duties on these products, but it is a matter of partial and gradual suspension of customs duties, and it is a part of the goods where customs duties will remain until BiH enters the EU. This can also serve as a good example of how we regulated it with the EU to make it essentially similar with neighbours. As important as this is for the producers, I think it's even important for us, because we're going on a summer break now, we're going to rest, and basically on the other hand we're going to have those people who are funding us, who are going to fill these budgets, who are going to fail during that period, and I believe that we're not going to be able to rest really, we're burning our conscience, in fact, if we don't do anything right, on the one hand, and on the other hand, people are going to be out of work every day, we're going to lose their property. Because banks are properly carrying out mortgages when you can't repay credit and people, what their generations have created, are essentially going to be in a position to be tenants of their own property. I believe that a part, as it has been so far, of representatives of the Serb people, of the order of the Croatian people, will not support this law. I and those reasons, in some ways, understand, because those with the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia are making direct interests happen. They are doing this transparently and I think......... that this is not good, but that they cannot be prevented because such transparent and public work is not sanctioned by law, because both Serbia and Croatia are clearly helping areas where they are receiving elections, in which they achieve certain results, again in a transparent, transparent manner. We have these examples: when there was a crisis of grain, Serbia supplied sufficient amounts of grain on loan in the Serbian majority areas neatly. We have an example that the orderly government of the Republic of Croatia helps Croatia's areas directly by means of its budget, and that is one common interest that, I don't know, of these 3 billion that we create deficits with Serbia and Croatia, 1%, 2%, which is some usual commission, they return to those who represented their interests in this Parliament, that this situation is happening again. Now, to the representatives of the Bosniak people in this House? I can't understand why they actually allow such a state, I don't understand what interests there are, whether there are at all, whether there are ignorances, I don't see any transparent activities from neighbouring countries towards areas where they live to do something more important.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19917	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19918	How would the situation change? What is my request means that we try to do something before this summer break, that we can, in fact, rest in peace, and that those people who work and create something in this country can practically, too, continue to work in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19919	The next one checked in... Business intervention, esteemed representative Bajazit Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19920	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it is clear that the Rules of Procedure could not have foreseen the situation in which we are now, because in 28 principles, no Parliament's assembly could have remembered that this could happen. It would be good to explain to us whether it is possible to bypass Article 101(5), (6) and (7), which reads: 'If the House has received several draft laws that regulate the same questions, the College shall refer them to the procedure in accordance with the position (2) of this member. If the BiH Council of Ministers is not a legislator, the College of Laws shall direct the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver an opinion within 20 days. When the House gets the opinion of the BiH Council of Ministers on the law, a law that has received a positive opinion has priority in further proceedings before the House. The following position: 'The College invites the legislators (3) of this article to make an effort within seven days to bring their proposals into line and to refer one proposal of the law to a further procedure. If no agreement has been reached by the proposings, the parliamentary procedure shall refer to the draft law first delivered to the House." The following is said: 'If the Council of Ministers of BiH, within the time limit laid down in Article (5), fails to deliver an opinion, the parliamentary procedure under the proposed laws shall continue until the procedure is completed before the Constitutional Commission and the competent commission, in agreement with the position (6) of this member. When he receives the opinion of the Constitutional Commission and the competent commission, the session of the House of College shall include the law first delivered to the House. By the end of the procedure before the House of First Law, the procedure for the other proposed laws shall rest." So, I don't think it's enough for any of us to just call a member of 127 and declare it an emergency procedure, it has to explain both his urgency and his simplicity to adopt her like this. But what I came forward for would be good if we all heard together whether it was possible for members to read without the Rules of Procedure being watched as a whole, or could only be one member at a time, and then how it fits. If possible, one member at a time, then I ask this committee working on amending its Rules of Procedure to respect this rich experience and to spare ourselves this procedure in the next period, in which we have one law twice in the parliamentary procedure with no distinction except in the title; it can be with a noble goal which cannot be achieved then if BiH has seriously signed this Agreement with the EU. I'd like to ask the answer before, simply, to make sure we're on the right track. And this is why the Bošnjak can't see or hear, I think it was too much of a proposal. So, I think that... in one appropriate way, Bošnjak have shown about all BiH issues as their commitment to economic development, to decentralised BiH, with strong and competent institutions at BiH level. And it would not be good for agriculture to start dividing into Bosniak, Serbian, Croatian and I don't know what it would be like for others in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19921	I thank you for commenting through business intervention on certain steps of the esteemed promoter, and I have estimated that it is wise not to comment on anything he said about the Croatian, Serbian and Bosniak interests in BiH. But here's what you've been commenting on, so thank you, because you've said about what I think you're saying. 29 The second thing, when it comes to the business obligation to include agenda points, we are aware of this issue that it is the same text of the law that we had at the last session, which, based on the conclusion of this House, has delayed the plea until the end of this year, but that it is about the amended name of the law, which some of us have commented on as abuse of business shortcomings. Therefore, at this point but in the light of the provisions of Article 127, under which any request for a procedure under Article 127 must be placed on the agenda, the College, and the narrow and extended composition, has been determined to include it in the agenda, estimating that, again, it is above all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and is as it is although imperfect. The House will decide on the request, so the House will decide whether to accept it, whether to refuse it, whether it will in any other way, means that this is not the right of the College, nor will it provide for itself. Here, I'm not sure if I've satisfied your curiosity, so to speak, but it's in the shortest commitment of the College and the College's position to include this point in today's agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19922	It is clear to me that you are... a position, but I do not understand why you agree that abuse of the Rules of Procedure happens, and you are protecting the Rules of Procedure. So I think you can prevent the abuse of the Rules of Procedure when it is obvious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19923	I will, for your information, prevent it from making a statement about this request. Try to prevent, and you all have that option, so use that option in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on. ... The following has been reported to the esteemed representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19924	Thank you, Your Honor. I will keep in mind that we are discussing an emergency procedure on the law that was first in this House under this title and with attention, of course, I have read that the bill also listened to with attention, of course, and the annexes that were delivered here to us, i.e. contributions and elaborates, etc. And I listened with care to the promoter, trying to understand the emergency procedure request. I will only remind you that given that it is the exact same text of the law on which this Parliament declares itself, rather than entirely identical annexes, or attachments, elaborates, etc. here they have been changed compared to the previous one, this Parliament is still being declared on the law and I would just like to remind you that we have reached a conclusion on the same text under different headings. So, Parliament has finished the debate, we do not have the law anymore in the procedure, but we have delayed the statement on this law conclusion of this house by the end of the year, it seems to me December, here if, if I should be corrected by my colleague Izetbegović, since it is the SDA's proposal to postpone the declaration of the law. So in the meantime, what happened? We've got new contributions and new labs. I'll start, not speaking about the contents of this text, because I think we finished 30 discussions about the content last time just under a different title. But I'm going to refer to some parts of the motional discussion which, I really need to correct, firstly, in the opening presentation by explaining the emergency procedure request mentioned that imports are growing in the first six months, that imports are growing in relation to exports in the CEFTA frameworks. I need to correct that. Exports are growing much faster within CEFTA frameworks than imports are growing within CEFTA frameworks. We've elaborated official data here in the documentation that was delivered to us already had and careful, those who know how to read these materials could read it. Secondly, I am surprised that when the proposal was managed by this motive, that it had not been included in at least this repeated proposal under another name and the EU, because we have been restructured, i.e. by creating and turning trade flows as a colleague named Lijanović in the economy, especially in foreign trade and using the terminology of the world trade system, there has been a shift and creation of new trade flows, so our imports are growing much more from the EU. It would make sense to me, too, that at least in this repeated proposal, we had a ban on imports, I think, would be logical for you to expect a ban on EU imports. That didn't happen. So much for the geographical structure as it is called in the economy, and now something about the slave structure as it is called in the economy, especially in the field of economic analysis and economic science. You have proposed here, although we have discussed this, protection in certain segments of the product, i.e. violation of all international rules to which BiH has committed itself, and in addition to that, we have supported our request by means of a request for certain – names, names, heads of customs tariffs – therefore, for the introduction of customs duties for a particular group of products in which the mollusks, bird eggs, decorative plants, roots, coffee, gums, resins and other vegetable juices and extracts, cocoa and cocoa products, so I would like to hear from the promoter how we protect domestic production with such a proposal of measures that he has proposed!? Because I don't know if we have any of this repertoire in domestic production. So much, therefore, about the slave structure, if necessary, I will continue to elaborate. However, I had a need in particular to respond to a part of the proposal's discussion on the decisions of the House of Representatives of this Parliament, the House of Representatives that make decisions in the interest of all BiH, all citizens, all peoples of both entities, the District, all cantons, local communities, etc. And by elaborated the interests of MPs in the order of the Serb, in the order of the Bosniak people, so here I will remain only on this third. Given that counterpart Lijanović, among other things, said that in the Bosniak people there is ignorance, I would direct him if I were to give him a short course from the basics of foreign trade and from cost-nefit analysis when analysing this kind of decision-making, or possibly adopting such laws. I'll leave it to my colleague Lijanović if he needs lunch or a break, etc. But here I offer myself to him or to continue schooling at one of the economic colleges during this term of office. On the occasion of Mr. Jašarević's business intervention, I need to mention the following. We have two laws of a completely different name, completely identical text. So these are not laws that regulate the same or similar matter and we cannot apply the Rules of Procedure in this case, but we only have repeated requests about the same, about the same contained only under another title. And I fully agree that amendments to the Rules of Procedure and such an option should be made. The only thing I don't agree with you is that this isn't the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, it's the abuse of MPs. And in that way, I would define such a way of handling, and in that sense, I would call on this parliament to adopt an emergency procedure as soon as possible. Thank you. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19925	I thank the honourable representative. The next one was the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić. I'm asking the technique to turn it on, here it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19926	I haven't been doing it since... it's good. It's a stenogram. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, MPs of course and guests, well, here we have for months already in the procedure of this law, of course now with a different name and I have always been on the Commission and here in Parliament – can we change international agreements by domestic law? The dilemma was just about how to fix the situation in BiH, and as far as the finding itself is concerned, I was never there in the dilemma. So can we really fix any law and change agreements, or are we going to turn out to be unserious? But I want to point out immediately that Mr. Lijanović has good intentions and I have suggested to you from the College that you are witnesses, colleagues, that here after the summer break we have a thematic session on economy, economic movements and that I be a little simpler – how will this people survive? So I also suggested that the agenda point be Bosnian-Herzegovic patriotism in the export of goods and production, so let's see what the barriers are, what are the problems. Is this parliament, by its legislative projects or by someone else, preventing the production from being repaired here so that we can reduce that imbalance? What are all the reasons? And, of course, I want to point out and repeat, right, countless times to repeat, it looks like I'm going to be misunderstood: people, colleagues, this country is both mine and the people who chose me to represent him. No one can live in isolation. It's not the RS remethyling factor to be on this particular issue of brakes if something else is imputing to us, so it says, here you are not. Well, this is about every man's better life. Well, I spoke openly, even, agriculture is in the interest of RS, because we have little more of these agricultural areas. Well, we had a minister, and here we have to pick a new one today, and he's probably scared of this topic, so the man's gone, and we haven't voted him, and Bog help him, even though I've known him for years, and I don't want to praise him today, we'll see the results of what the people would say. But please, as long as we go round and round and don't solve anything. Could our ministry, could the Council of Ministers, this Parliament, be able to improve lives within redistribution and certain measures to get us out of this vicious circle without these legal projects that would tear down international agreements? Did anyone make us go round the road with the EU? It's not. We'll do it ourselves. We'll do what we want.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19927	Dear, esteemed colleague, we are discussing at this very moment exclusively a request for an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19928	Here, I'll be right back. So, there's no disputed procedure here, whether it's an emergency procedure, it's not. This should have been if there was an urgent procedure but how, how!? I keep having a dilemma here in front of this Parliament, we will plead – how to help our people. And here not 32 can, at least at this point, be a national connotation – here Srbin are against it because. And I'll end up with one sentence. Well, I said wave and it's not demagogy, I can swear to Bogo, I love that people live well in Croatia, I love in Serbia to live well, but I prefer that people live here well. And I prefer not to be driven out by sticks here by the people. And to say, here's what you did for us. But I repeat the question, because I don't know the answer - do we have solutions how? 62 measures by the ministry need to come into effect, I don't know if there are two steps. Can we do something inside, redistributing responsibility and some projects to resolve this? Of course I'll be against the law of someone, I repeat again – I'm bored of myself, believe me, and then you, I'm sorry – international agreement that we're changing, it's not possible, people. But let's make ourselves and here's after the break that we have a thematic session, not just agriculture, economic movements and how to go once more, how to survive, if we're going to self-destruct, and that would be the biggest accident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19929	Thank you. Business intervention, esteemed representative Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19930	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I just wanted to ask, if there's an open debate about the law itself, then I'm applying, and if it's a procedure, I'd like to stick to it. Is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19931	It's not. Dear Representative Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19932	We told all these stories once, if it lasts all day, you know. What are you allowed to re-integrate this story? We have a serious agenda today, let's finish this thing, we said, we'll wait there by the end of the year, we'll see the effects of CEFTA, we'll see the effects of stabilising and joining the entry of goods from Europe. To appreciate where we are somewhere in November, December, don't drag ourselves back into this now and talk about RS and lobbyes that might force this law or that don't allow this law to be passed. What do we need to stay here for hours at a time? So I suggest you cut down on this and move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19933	Thank you. Dear Representative Novaković is next. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19934	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I think Mr. Jovičić's earlier discussion is actually heading towards the newly elected minister. And I suppose the questions are addressed to the newly elected minister, and not to us here how we're going to solve this issue, and I hope that he will read this discussion of Mr. Jovičić and it's a shame that he didn't stay here when this point is on the agenda, if anything, at least here at the first session gets the impression and impressions of what he's gotten into, or what the ministry is and what problems he's taken over. But, well, I hope it will be more common than the previous minister present and the other ministers at these sessions. I will limit myself exclusively to procedure because last time I spoke about the text of the law, about the degree of protection of domestic production, I am not alone. Anyway, I wasn't saying this from the point of view of the promoter, but I was talking about another issue, a question of some companies... waters etc. So I have no intention of discussing it even when there's a discussion of the law. But... I've come to suggest that the motion to change the degree of urgency for this law, because I don't think it's logical that we're really discussing this issue in accordance with Article 127. It would be a good idea if the promoter I think has achieved the goal of this debate itself, the first goal, means, because he has promised that every time he will propose this law, here's the promise, but it would be good to go back to the commission phase and it would be good if we finally realized what we did last time in this area. To get real data on the degree of protection of domestic production, but from the institutions that are in charge, even from this ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19935	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on, you've had a debate. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda. I've concluded the debate, you can't after the conclusion, on time, on time, I have a technique here. We're going to the sixth point, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties – Proposers: Representatives Šefik Džaferović, Niko Lozančić and Milorad Živković (second reading) I remind you, at the last session, we delayed a statement on the bill's proposal in the second reading, tasked the competent commission to consider amendments to Joza Križanović, who were not sent to the Committee by mistake during the examination of the Bill's proposal at the amendment phase. The commission concluded the House, held a session, discussed Mr Križanović's amendments and submitted a new report. The commission did not accept amendments by MPs Križanović and the bill's proposal, and this time, accepted it in the proposed text. 34 In the plenary phase, the amendment was submitted: Honored Representative Momčilo Novaković (three amendments), SNSD Representatives' Club (two amendments) and SDP Representatives' Club (four amendments). I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19937	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, is the third law to come out as a result of a consensus created or created, written, as a result of a consensus in the Interresor Working Group formed by this Parliament, which consists of six MPs. Three from this, three from the House of Peoples, three ministers and four members of the Central Election Commission. The law introduces more order in the area of financing of political parties. It resolves relations when it comes to contributions, resolves relations when it comes to funds coming from budgets, clubs, political parties, and introduces one more effective control in the spending of these funds. That is the essence of the amendments and the addition of the law. I repeat, he is the result of a consensus in the Interresor Working Group and I suggest you adopt him today. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19938	Thank you. Dear Representative Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19939	Nothing, I'll just go ahead of the Commission. The Commission, then, after Parliament returned to the Commission that once again amendments from the SDP, the SDP Club, we were, believe us, ready because we were essentially not that... However, none of the proposings appeared on the Commission, the Commission's view was to reject all amendments. I propose to Parliament to adopt the Commission's report. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19940	Thank you. Honorable representative Jozo Križanović, then distinguished representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19941	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to say that I am sorry that I was not present at the Commission's session when these amendments were considered because I was officially absent that day. And for this reason – even these amendments have not been considered – I wanted to try to clarify these amendments at this home today. 35 So it's essentially about three amendments. I'll explain very briefly what this is about. So, amandman I., we believe that political parties in BiH, apart from regular party activity, should be able to participate more strongly in the implementation of projects that would contribute to the development of parliamentary democracy and democratisation of the Bosnian-Herzegovina society as a whole. It is the fact that most, as far as I know, political parties in BiH have their own interesting forms of organisation such as the Forum of Women, Youth, Seniors, etc. and that, in cooperation with certain NGOs, they are working on implementing certain projects where, I say, in one way indirect, political action, they expand certain aspects, give clarification to certain social problems and, I say, the parties contribute even more to the democratisation of society and parliamentary democracy. So, this amendment goes for the fact that, in addition to these activities listed in this law, there is another added line -- that projects for the development of parliamentary democracy and the Bosnian-Herzegovina society can be financed. It's about this, and it's about amandman III.. which suggests that certain activities should be undertaken in order to avoid misuse of the funds approved for projects. So it speaks of the parties being obliged, when they receive funding for certain projects, to make a special record of this water project in a specific file and they are obliged to present it to the Election Commission and to all other financial controls. amandman II. is saying that we believe that this censorship of its own income should be raised to 30% by 20%. This is explained by the opinion that political parties would thus be stimulated to provide resources with their own work, their own activity, which would, in some ways, contribute to reducing the pressure on budgets to finance political parties and, at the same time, at least symbolically contribute to a little more employment. Here, that would be those three short amendments. We think that, in addition to this effort made by the Interresor Group to improve the law, and the electoral and conflict of interest and financing, they would mean, however, another small step in improving this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19942	Thank you. I don't have any more logs.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19943	Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19944	Momo Novaković. Please, Your Honor, I apologize... Dear Representative Novaković. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19945	Mr. Chairman, I have had two amendments and have not received support from the Commission, so I have renewed them for this session: one concerning Article 4 and amendments are intended to total the amount that is possible as a donation, i.e. to finance political parties, calculated by multiplying the average net wages by a coefficient of 15, and now it is 8. My proposal is to keep the current situation, i.e. the total amount can be maximum of 8. I understand the motif of the promoter, which means he's bringing in, maybe even the larger amount, let's say, in legality, when it comes to payments, but I have to say that this member is typical of parties that have power. As far as my party is concerned, we can hardly provide donors for these eight average net wages, let alone for 15. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, we've been under High Representative's control before, so he wouldn't let us. In fact, we were delivering weekly reports to OHR, so here we are not, we couldn't use these eight, apparently, as other political parties could. Of course, since I've taken the floor, I'm going to comment and propose amendments to the others. The very fact that I have proposed this amendment with a reduction of eight averages means that we will not support the SNSD amendment that also knocks this 15 down, so that they are practically unlimited funds that someone can give to a political party, which I don't think really makes sense and that it's not appropriate right now. When it comes to amendments to the SDP, we appreciate that the three first amendments of the SDP cannot be discussed, since they do not refer to members of the laws which are subject to the amendments, so they do not refer to it but rather to something completely different, so here we will not, as a club, support these SDP proposals either. As for the fate of the law itself, it will, of course, depend on the fate of all these amendments that are here and Parliament's relations with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19947	Thank you. Dear Representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19948	Here, very briefly. In order to avoid the formation of this solidarity fund for the SDS, as I have heard, we are precisely in this direction and we have acted on these amendments to open the space that 37 funding political parties in this way we propose, and normally not to claim that it is best and most ideal, but it is one of the possible solutions. And what we think we should pay attention to and ask that this possibility be considered in Amendment II to Article 8 which we propose to delete, as regards the funds for the work of MPs' clubs. We have made it clear, here and tomorrow we will discuss this topic and what awaits this Parliament and a significant number of activities in the next period, which will be needed in some, in almost all discussions, we have said that we need both human and professional equipment and a significant expansion of the scope of the activities and I think it is the only source of funds and that it is not good that we, in this way, deprive these funds, since political parties also have other sources of funding and it is undeniable and the right of each parliamentary club to – carry out their transfer according to their decision-making methods. So we don't think we should deprive them of these possibilities and be at MP clubs, for which we have found in the next period a great burden of obligation, to deprive them of these possibilities, or in terms of how it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19949	Dear Representative Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19950	...to my colleagues, Križanović. That is exactly what we discussed on the Commission. The SDP, as far as we know, has its permanent member in the Finance and Budget Committee. Of the 28 sessions, he was only twice. It means he cares, but I think this is good! Here, I hear today that it's good for the SDP to realize that they've dried up their international donations. It is known that they have been punished twice by the Election Commission and that finally the income from the illegal lease of the former Alliance of Communists' assets will be dried up and it is good to make sure that they return to normal financing routines as well as all other parties. So far, it's not like that, and I'm glad they're starting to think that we're all even, now we're not. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19951	Dear Representative Križanović: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19952	I mean, I said that as a signator of this proposal, I wasn't in the session and for that reason I asked for these amendments. And secondly, as regards these arguments by colleagues, Bahtić, what are the motives of the SDP for these amendments. I hope from this explanation that we will support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19953	Replic or debate? Dear Representative Bećirović: Replica. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19954	I must say that Mr. Bahtić is one, indeed, atypical MP in the planetary exchanges, and also wider, is he. And why is it atypical? Well, besides all the other reasons why he's atypical and the next reason why he confirms it. Here, for two years here in this House's assembly, I must say, others have noticed, not me, but here I have to say, 95% of my discussions are devoted to one opposition party. So 95% of his discussions and reports in this House: his theme was SDPBiH! He doesn't seem to know that there are other issues in this House, other problems for this country. No, it's the only SDP for him and he's just waiting for what he says about the SDP. Who instructs him to say so, why he says it, whether he knows nothing else to say it, etc., I will not go into it now, but it would be good if he could hold back at least a little while and try to return to the agenda for a simple reason not to open a number of other topics and not open them for other colleagues from the BiH Party. But if he insists on dealing with this kind of thing and, most of the time, places the truth itself, then we will also have to talk about the financial ties of the BiH Party with various flocks and flocks in this country. And since this is not on the agenda, it would be good, the chairman, to return to the agenda anyway, and to invite Mr Bahtić to abandon the SDP and accept the job he is in the BiH Parliament for.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19955	Here, dear representative, first respected representative Šefik Džaferović, as he really answered the line first.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19956	Mr. Chairman, I just want to make one clarification on Mr. Kalabić's discussion. So this isn't a replica, because I noticed where Mr. Kalabić might go. So let's be perfectly clear. It is also in the interest of political clubs and political parties to adopt a solution resulting from a consensus on the Interresor Group when it comes to the division of money which, by law, belongs to clubs. That's what the law says -- political groups. What do you mean by "political group"? To those who think it's clubs, I advise, very well-intentioned, to accept this solution, because I think it's political parties. We have now defined this thing by law and honestly said - of the money belonging to the political group, 25% goes to the club so the club can be serviced – what Mr. Kalabić was talking about – and 75% goes to the political party. I think that if the law were to be interpreted in the way that it should be interpreted, that it – 'political group' actually means political party. And this goes now... and it's not, not at the expense of the MPs' clubs. Let's not open any more questions because if we start to unwrap it, I don't know where we're gonna come from. I therefore advise you to introduce order in this area and to make the distribution of these funds in a way that 25% will go, clearly defined, to the club, 75% to the political party, because the law on changes and additions now makes the difference between the club and the political party and does not know the term 'political group'. That's it. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19957	Dear Representative Belkić. Correction, replica? The replica, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19958	It is a replica, but I'll also use the discussion as usual people do here, right? So, I'm in very rare moments, when it was really getting more intolerable, I warned and now I'm warning again: Mr. Bećirović, I did that to your boss of the party, as they sow, as they sow, as they sow. Think about it, and you'll see that I'm right. I'd only ask three sentences to tell you about the law. If you were closely following the introduction, one of the members of the Interresor Group, you could hear that this solution was a solution to the compromise reached between three men from the House of Representatives, three people from the House of Peoples, three men from the Ministry and three men from the Election Commission, four men from the Election Commission. So, we have defined ourselves, when it comes to this area, this set of laws, we here in Parliament are determined to form inter-resor groups, not to be in charge of the ministry and the Council of Ministers, but we have chosen to solve this set of laws through inter-resor working groups. Time has been spent a great deal, right, a great deal of effort from these people and it cost. Every time people told us - this is the maximum reach. The processes were completely transparent and open. So, working group, the Interresor Working Group was open, according to my information, for all initiatives, all suggestions, all amendments in the process of making these solutions. Every time, so here we go this time, we have the amendments back to the reached level, the level of consensus by certain things. Okay, the opposition has the need to publicly say what, eventually, fails to do so during the work of the inter-resor group, and then usually we who participate in the inter-resor group later appear with some amendment. So, me, all this talk I've told here is going in the direction of the next one. It is obvious that a sufficient number of votes can be reached in both entities on a harmonised text at the level of the Interresor Working Group. All amendments were not practically supported as solutions in this interresor working group. I wanted to say this for the sake of clarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19959	Thank you. Dear Representative Bahtić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19960	...no one has ever instructed me, and I always think for myself, unlike you, cloned sir. So, because if I was listening to other people, I might not even be saying this. It is true, perhaps 95%, that this is why I, as chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, have to take care of the revenues, the budget of this country. It's not my fault that you're robbing this country, that you're taking an illegal lease, that you usurped something out of the people. That's your problem. 40 Also, what's wrong with me saying that you're going back into normal frames. So all the public knows that you got donations and... you know where you got it... it's known that you illegally, too, spent it. You know that... The election commission...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19961	Your Honor, I'm asking you to turn around and talk to the microphone, and then we'll all hear from you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19962	It's just, since you're not ashamed, you've been taking money from this people for 15 years. The people have nothing to eat. There are no apartments. You take it, you still have to talk. Return the people to the people, robbed and that main income you're taking from the lease, return it to the state that the state doesn't pay... the lease, and then you have the right to read someone a moral lesson. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19963	Here, a small replica, a small replica, distinguished representative Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19964	I don't think Mr. Bahtić needs to be replicated, there's nothing to replicate. But, Mr. Belkić, you've got worse bulbs than we have. Therefore, you shall see what they bear! Korov will give birth. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19965	He's not a lightbulb.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19966	Replica, the esteemed representative Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19967	It is not worth much to pay attention to these statements by Mr Bahtić. His manners and actions are very well known to this public. However, this statement by Mr. Belkić is interesting and I read a lot of it, and so far I didn't know it was really an attitude. On my point to Mr Bahtić not to spend 95% of his energy here in Parliament on the SDP issue but to work, above all, what he was elected here in Parliament for, Mr Belkić says - how you sow so. Like, as you say, we don't sow well, so that's why we have the Bahtić, is it? I don't know if it's just a message to both the SDP and all those media and people who got hurt even physically because of Mr. Bahtić? If that's it, I don't think it's okay, Mr. Belkić. But it's very signifying that you're defending him in that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19968	Dear Vice-President Belkić. Replica, first. 41 Wait a minute, first it's a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19969	I believed you understood what I was talking about. So when I was talking about how you sow so much, I thought primarily how you and your boss function, how you're willing to insult people, insinuations to be, etc. That's what I was thinking first. So you can't expect people to shut up, not react.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19970	Dear Representative Ajanović. _________ [[(?) /Disable microphone/]] I don't have any more logs. There is, a respected, late reported representative Jerko Lijanović Ivanković, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19972	...the chairman, since you referred me to electronics, I was one of the first to answer, but apparently electronics wasn't important to you at the time. I point to Article 70. (on the breach of the Rules of Procedure) when you did not give me the right to reply, although I have the right to two and ask that we return to that agenda point and give me the right to give a replica, in fact to answer some of the questions that have been asked. If you won't do it, it's your right. You have most of it and you can do it but then the practice that we've been in so far, the club where I've been looking for half an hour's break, I mean, not once or all since this home was formed, we have the opportunity to look for it for every item of the agenda, so we'll probably use that option a little bit more.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19973	Anything the Rules of Procedure gives you, use it. You've completed the presentation, so the point you're talking about is closed. We are now fully on the second item of the agenda. You've re-abused the Rules of Procedure, you've reported something that's over, not the point we're discussing at this point. No more reported on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19974	... half an hour's break... 42
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19975	Half an hour's break... Wait a minute, I'm just going to give you a little bit of an idea of how it's planned to work. So, we're going to work today until we finish this agenda, because tomorrow we can't continue for the simple reason that we have a plenary session tomorrow at both homes. As far as I'm concerned, you can use your break by midnight by half an hour. Now, even though we thought later, I'm adding another half hour for lunch, for lunch, to continue the session at 14.10. [[PAUZA]] So we're going back to work. Does the president of the National Club want to explain? He does. Dear Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović. I'd like the services to turn on the microphone to the esteemed representative Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19977	I asked for a half-hour break in protest for not receiving a word in accordance with Article 70(2), which reads: 'Employee may ask for a word to correct a quote which is incorrectly cited and which may be the cause of a misunderstanding or seek an explanation. The chairman gives a word to the MP after the person whose statement caused the need for an explanation has completed his discussion. In that case, the MP must be limited to a correction, or explanation, which cannot last longer than three minutes." I hope this doesn't happen again in the next period, but here, at the next session, I'm going to have a chance, so I'm going to explain what I should have done in the last wheel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19978	I thank the honourable representative. We have concluded the debate on item 6 of the established agenda. We're moving to point seven, ad. Seven. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Adem Huskić (second reading) I remind you, at the 24th session, this House adopted the legislative proposal in its first reading, under the obligation to obtain the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the draft law. Also then, on a proposal from the debate, we adopted the conclusion that we asked the Public Business Official Journal to provide the House with the 'Work Report for 2007, with an emphasis on financial indicators, as well as the 'Work Plan' and the 2008 budget. In the meantime we received a report on the work of the Official List, we had it on the agenda last week as well as these sessions, which means that the House's conclusion was realized. 43 The draft law report was submitted by the Constitutional Legal Commission on 24 July 2008. The Council of Ministers' opinion on the Bill's Proposal was not delivered, although we asked for this in our first letter of March 18th and in an emergency since 15 July 2008. The commission unanimously accepted the bill, with one amendment adopted by the Committee. As you have seen, in the report the Committee said it is necessary to declare the Council of Ministers as... Public enterprise Official Journal of BiH. We don't have these statements. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. Dear Representative Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19980	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, is the famous law of Mr. Huskić, he will likely speak of it, which aims to make what the BiH Official Messenger, which refers to the laws, available on the internet for all citizens. We have practically unanimously defined ourselves here against this initiative but we have said that, of course, funds are needed for this. This has an important impact on the business of the BiH Official Messenger, which is why dom asked for the opinion of the Council of Ministers, which would also result in talks with people from the company, the Public Enterprise. On several occasions, we tried to reach those opinions on the Constitutional Commission, twice, as far as I know, we never came to an opinion, and we had nothing else left. We couldn't ask you to extend the deadlines of your colleagues, but simply deliver the thing, say, yes, the law of ok, but here's the thing to see, that we all know that we can get into a certain kind of risk, that tomorrow will fail, let's say, that enterprise because of the law we're passing. But the Constitutional Commission did not have any other choice, since it believes it is a good thing, is it, but rather, that, with its opinion at the moment, it was on the day of the Commission meeting, to deliver here to the House of Representatives with the proposals set out in the Report of this Commission. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19981	Thank you. The following has been reported by honourable representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19982	Mr. Chairman, you said in the introduction that this proposal was discussed somewhere in the second month, at the 24th session, I think it is. The Constitutional Commission for the first time considered it 18.2. She agreed to the principles, Dom accepted. Five months have passed to make a statement to the Council of Ministers, two of the ERs have been and I don't think there's any need to wait any longer for their opinion. I think we have all the conditions to adopt these changes. There was one amendment, and that amendment was accepted. So the procedure is absolutely respected and I am convinced, and I hope most of us here or almost all, that this is in the interest of, in the broadest interest of 44 BiH citizens and that no one has any, can have any bad consequences and therefore I suggest that this law be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19983	Thank you. I have here an e-mailed esteemed representative of Prodanović. Wrong. I don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. Now we get to the eighth point: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) I, we have the ninth point: Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, with Report of the Joint Defence and Security Committee It's the same matter, the same matter, and I suggest to the House that we discuss both points of the agenda together. Is this proposal accepted? If anyone has a different opinion, let them say we don't vote. No, so here's what I'm counting on is that we have the acceptance to conduct a joint discussion. I'll read these notes, so with both points of the agenda. So, the eighth point is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration, the second reading. This legislative proposal has long been in parliamentary procedure. The 16th session was adopted in the first reading, at the 18th session it was proposed to postpone a statement on the proposal for this law in the second reading, as it was in close connection with the proposal for a law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection for which the report of the relevant committee was negative. The college has reached agreement on this proposal, so, for a time, the procedure on this bill has been put to rest, waiting for laws on police structures reform to be passed. Today, as you can see, we have on the agenda both of these laws. So, this proposal and the bill in the next point with a negative report from the Commission. I remind you now of the report of the Constitutional Commission, as the relevant committee, on the proposal of this law, which is the report of 8.11.2007. The Constitutional Commission adopted the draft law in the proposed text. 45 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, with the Report of the Joint Defence and Security Committee. That's the ninth point. At the 16th session, we adopted the bill in our first reading. The 18th session discussed the bill, with the Commission's report on defence and security. The report was negative. A statement on the report was postponed on the proposal from the debate. Here, now we have the agenda of the bill with a negative report from the Joint Defence and Security Committee that did not accept the bill. I remind you, this is a report from 28.11.2007. We discuss and decide the report. Dear Representative Džaferović will wait a little while, as I have already announced by the previously respected Security Minister to explain one and another proposal jointly, and then we will open the debate. Security Minister Tarik Sadović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19985	The Honorable Chairman, deputy deputy, honourable MPs, MPs at the Parliamentary House of BiH, fellow ministers and other representatives of institutions, representatives of civil society and media, allow me to say a few words on the subject of these two laws. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, shortened the SIPA – the bill was drafted in the period when the police reform process was in a certain stalemate or in some state of hibernation and when it was not known how the process would end. In this regard, the provisions of this bill address some issues which, after reaching agreement in the area of police reform and the adoption of laws regulating the area, have been resolved in a different way. This, above all, refers to the organisational transfer of Interpol to the State Agency for Investigation and Protection which, according to the proposed solution, would function as a special department in the SIPA. Since the Interpol issue is now regulated by the provisions of the Law on the Law on the Coordination of Police Authorities, Article 6 of that law, the solution proposed in this bill becomes unnecessary and its adoption can create a legal situation in which this issue would be resolved in two different ways which is unacceptable. In addition, these amendments and amendments to the SIPA Act proposed that the director of SIPA, the Internal Organisation Regulations, establish a number of civil servants and employees who, due to the specificity of those posts and their close links with the tasks carried out by police officers, would have the right to additional financial compensation. And this issue has been resolved in a different way in the meantime, because this parliament passed the Law on Salary and properly regulated the issue of that category of civil servants and employees of SIPA, and for that reason, the solution is unacceptable. I also inform you that, following the adoption of these, these two reform police laws, I have appointed a task force that works on harmonisation, so the Law on the Directorate for the Coordination of Police Authorities and on Police Authorities Support agencies, and the Law on Independent and Supervisory Authorities of the Police Structure, therefore, with the laws on SIPA, the Law on 46 Border Police, the Law on the Ministry and the Law on Police Officers of BiH. This commission, this task force is working and I believe that very soon these harmonised draft laws will be addressed to the Council of Ministers and then to the Parliamentary Assembly for adoption. As for the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration, it was a law that was closely linked to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the SIPA Act. This proposal for a law is related to the solutions proposed by the provisions of the Amendment Act and the amendments to the SIPA Act that we have on the agenda, because in that law, the Office for Cooperation with Interpol was envisaged as the Basic Organizational Unit of the Agency. For these reasons, it was necessary to delete in this law a provision stipulating that the Office for Co-operation with Interpol was a service in the form of the Ministry of Security. However, given the fact that the issue of Interpol's jurisdiction is regulated by the provisions of the Law on the Law on the Coordination of Police Authorities, here I have just said to Article 6, the solution proposed in this bill becomes unnecessary and its adoption can create a legal situation in which this issue would be resolved in two different ways, which is totally unacceptable. So here are the honourable MPs, both of these laws have been overcome and the adoption of both laws would create some kind of legal confusion or duplication. I ask the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to respect the emerging situation and to properly set up under these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19986	I thank the Honorable Minister. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19987	So, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, after explaining, the reasons of the minister of security, as far as the matter is concerned, the matter is quite clear. We don't need these laws, so now the only question is how do we do it, right? So we can do it by refusing the laws, and we can also withdraw them. I don't know how things work out exactly as precisely as they're pulling out now, but if we decide to refuse them, then I can't go through anyway, because they're going to cause confusion. And if we decide to settle things, then we have to reject this first law. And compared to this other one, when it comes to SIPA, then accept the Commission's negative report and then we finish the job. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19988	Thank you. Business is not possible to withdraw from the procedure, so, well. Honorable representative Hadžiahmetović, then distinguished representative Novaković, then distinguished representative Kalabić, reported in this order for discussion. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19989	Thank you. I'll do it for a while. Unless there is a business opportunity for the Council of Ministers to withdraw these two laws from the procedure, I will propose a conclusion that both laws return to the Council of Ministers before this House is declared before voting, possibly. That way, this parliament could end up with a procedure around the two laws. They can come to us, eventually, in a changed form later, adapted to the reformed laws that we have already adopted regarding police reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19990	Thank you. Dear Representative Novaković. No, he gave up. Dear Representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19991	Here, I'll take this opportunity to remind you of one situation. We are in the preparation of the Rules of Procedure and the working group is working on making rules and we are conducting a dilemma and debate and we have about this situation a dilemma when we say that the promoter should be left with opportunities. And we have, here, you see, one situation that we always remind her: that now the proposer, quite logically, that he can now withdraw these two laws. We now need to find solutions in some other way. I'm just asking that, when we're working out our rules of procedure, we make sure that we find an adequate business opportunity to propose, here in these logical situations, and there's an opportunity to withdraw proposals, not that we now have to make some other combinations.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19992	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. I'm closing the hearing on points eight and nine. We're going to point 10. Ad. Ten. Proposal for a law on the control of the movement of arms and military equipment, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee At the 28th session, the House did not adopt a negative opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee on the Proposal for a Law, and the conclusion was given to the Commission, in cooperation with the Council of Ministers and Entity Governments, once again to consider the proposal for this law and to submit a new opinion to the House on the principles of the bill. 48 On 24 June, the Commission requested an extension of the time limit for submission of its opinion. The new opinion was delivered by the Commission on 24 July. The opinion is once again negative, so the Committee did not accept the principles of the bill at this point. I'm opening a debate on the Committee's opinion. Dear Representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19994	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, again, I apologize, when this business opportunity is Wednesday, this is the second negative report from the Commission, isn't it? It has some consequences, as far as I know. When it comes to the Rules of Procedure, it's matter of matter, so control of the movement of military equipment and weapons. The international force in BiH is in control today,... EUFOR is doing today. Efforts have been made within the Commission to bring these groups, which have worked on these laws, into line. Things have been agreed to the extent to which it was possible to bring this into line but, nevertheless, there was no agreement in the Commission to give this law a passing grade, to get the green light. I'm sorry it's like that. It's here on stage, so again some kind of struggle,...who's going to do it, who's going to have a dominant impact on this control. Are these entities, is it a state, etc. And it's that famous discussion in our public, and this law has given rise to expressions. I would like to remind all those who advocate the thesis that there should be a more prominent entity role here than the state that this is not about the transfer of jurisdiction from entity to state. This is where BiH is trying to enable it to operate without the international community and this is about the transfer, I would rather use the term, the competence that the Dayton Agreement has international forces in BiH to the state of BiH. Unfortunately, at this point in BiH, there is no willingness to carry out the transfer in the right way, so that the state is able to do these jobs. That is why I propose, no matter what the consequences, this is the second negative report, that this House rejects the Report, rejects the Commission's negative report, or the Commission's opinion and let's see what happens next with this procedure. That's what I can say right now. Of course, the Commission's opinion is negative and it is. I, when I said I was proposing to reject that opinion, expressed my position as an MP, not as a representative of the Commission. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19995	Thank you. Dear First Vice-President Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19996	Well, I haven't come out to make an argument similar to that spoken of by Mr. Džaferović, but I am interested in, I don't know, whether there's a chance that someone in front of the Commission, because the chairman of this joint committee from the House of the Peoples, Mr. Zrna, is telling me whether practically at the level of the Commission was acted in accordance with Parliament's conclusion when we didn't accept negative opinion for the first time. We then said that we were in charge of the Commission to cooperate with the Council of Ministers, entity governments, so that one communication, one 49 consent, and try to come up with an appropriate solution. I, from Mr. Džaferović's presentation, realized that an agreement was made within the Commission, trying to find a common language on the issue, but I did not realize whether a broader consultation was being carried out. If it's done, where is it, what would our people say, stuck?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19997	Dear Representative Džaferović. Answer the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19998	That's right. I'm answering the question. So everything that could practically be done was done. The project, apart from BiH institutions and institutions in BiH, includes international organisations. A group was formed, or group that worked to prepare this law tried to bring these attitudes into line. It's a group in which they are representatives of the entity and the Ministry of Security and she made a report. The Ministry of Security submitted a report to the Commission which, unfortunately, was not acceptable to representatives from the RS, and we later received a letter with possible amendments, all members of the Commission, four relevant international organisations in BiH, which are in one way or another, with the view that this law needs to be adopted as soon as possible and some of the views given in that letter have been expressed. Those views were not acceptable to representatives from the RS either. And this is the answer to the question that you've now asked. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u19999	The next is Honorable Representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20000	Thank you. The Commission therefore considered and had this law on the agenda on two occasions. Last time we considered it, there was one situation that was not so often common on the Commission. In the light of the Commission's Rules of Procedure, in order for the law to be or act to be adopted in addition to having to have a semi-half majority of the members of the Commission, it must be "for" and one representative of each of the constituent people. As only one member of the Serb people was present on the Commission, that one vote, whether – although there were, I don't know, the other six, six were "for" – the one vote determined the fate of this law. And there's a possibility, I think, as I'd say, that there were more people here that might have been accepted. And that's why I think he should be turned down and put back on the Commission, among other things, and for that. But also, what is very important for this law, which is used as an argument for non-acceptance, includes these amendments, these 10 amendments, which are in line with this joint working group, which was discussed by counterpart Džaferović and after which the letter was sent to the OSCE, OHR and the UNDP and NATO, i.e. by EUFOR. I'd like to say next. On 23rd last month, the Commission held a meeting with EUFOR's commander, where he carried out a presentation and said about the following -- EUFOR has transferred six or seven activities to BiH authorities so far. So what was his jurisdiction, starting with the airspace control that was transferred somewhere at the 9th month last year, etc. And this, this thing that EUFOR is doing, it's controlling arms transport, the last thing that EUFOR is still doing, and it's the last 50 EUFOR activities that are planned to be transferred to domestic authorities, and I find it really incomprehensible and incomprehensible why we avoid it. On the one hand, we have a story about how, whether or not, we're capacitated to a degree that we can take things into our own hands in far more complex things than this and, on the other hand, now that we get to vote on this, here's a little thing that these people think we can do, then we're against. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, we have no opportunity but to return to the Commission, and I think that's the bad side of the Rules of Procedure. I think even that it would be possible today to vote this law. But here, since the Rules of Procedure are like this, I suggest they do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20001	The following has been reported by distinguished representative Jozo Križanović. But before I give my word, just one explanation, since I see that it is also a dilemma, so this is about the opinion of the competent committee, not the report of the relevant committee; when it comes to the report, when it comes to the second time it comes back or does not accept, or accepts the report, the law falls. For first reading, no such procedure is provided for in the opinion, so we can accept the Opinion today and thus break the law, and we can not accept the law and return it to the competent commission. Here's what you know about clarity. It means business regulations. Here you go, dear representative Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20002	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say something about this bill as a member of the Commission, responsible for defence and security. I will try not to repeat what colleagues Džaferović and Huskić said. Namely, I've been for this bill for two fundamental reasons. First, we are thus transferring competence from EUFOR to the BiH state, which is realistically estimated to have come into this situation so that we can control it without the help of the international community. And secondly, what we are doing is making a significant step towards maintaining the visa regime, where our citizens who want to travel are concerned. So, since it's about first reading, I think the law is mature with its principles and principles and it's possible to accept it. But here, to say the confusion was introduced by certain amendments that appeared parallel to the first reading, you know, and started with these amendments as from the finished stuff, not allowing this, as a normal flow. That's why I'm in favour, and here's what I'm going to be doing today is that this law can be passed without any repairs being left for the next stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20003	Thank you. I don't have any more reports. I've seen it well. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 11th point, Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law on Border Control, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee 51 At the 30th session, Dom discussed the bill, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee, which is negative, i.e. The commission did not accept this bill. The House did not accept the opinion of the Committee and the conclusion was adopted that the Opinion returned to the Committee on Co-operation with the proposal... the debate that the Committee, in cooperation with the Ministry of Security and other interested parties, tried to agree on the views in this law and delivered a new opinion on the law to the House. On 24 June, the Commission requested an extension of the deadline for a new opinion. The new opinion was also delivered by the Commission on 24 July 2008. The opinion of this bill is negative. The principles of the draft law on border control are not supported. I'm opening a debate on the Committee's opinion. Here, dear Minister Tarik Sadović, is an introductory note.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20005	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished MPs, this is an extremely important law and I therefore needed to report and provide further information to the House of Representatives regarding the proposal for a law on border control. BiH currently has the Law on the Control and Control of the Crossing of the State Border, so it is a valid law, it applies, so to me, it is very unusual when the principles of this law are challenged. If we already had one law on the same principles as this new law, I found it very unusual to dispute those principles. But maybe it's just a technique. The other thing is that the law is very important for meeting BiH's obligations from the Roadmap to liberalise the visa regime for BiH citizens who want to travel to EU member states. The Border Control Act was prepared by a legal sub-group of the Interagency Working Group on Integration and Border Management of BiH, consisting of three experts from the BiH Ministry of Security and Border Police, one expert from the Directorate for Direct Taxation, the Veterinary Office extended with experts from the Directorate for European Integration, with the participation of EUPM, IOM and, according to our assessment, made one important proposal. The mentorship over the creation of the original version of the law was led by a verified Latvian expert hired by the European Commission in BiH, which led to the alignment of Latvian legislation with the Schengen legal heritage. In view of the fact that, following the initial entry into the agenda of the Commission for Defence and Security, comments by the DCAF, this is the Geneva Centre for the Control of Armed Forces, a partner important organisation working together on border management issues with us, etc., this ministry, in co-operation with the legal subgroup as well as the representatives of the DCAF, discussed the comments submitted to the text of the law, compared them with Regulation No 562/06 of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a code of common rules for the movement of persons across borders, carried out other additional consultations with experts from other institutions, and provided certain observations and suggestions. Since DCAF's observations were relatively numerous, here's just to let you know in the roughest way that some of these remarks were more formal character and applied to insignificant things. For example, why the law does not give guidance to the Directorate for indirect taxation, but rather to a reduced UIO, and we did not take it seriously. 52 One part of the remarks referred to the provisions of the laws governing the transfer of arms across the state border and the issue of the movement and retention of vessels, the prohibition of navigation restrictions, etc., and it is indeed not in the appropriate legislation in the EU or in accordance with Schengen standards, but we have gone for practical reasons, because BiH has no regulated this issue, there is no law on arms and other laws, so we considered it a transitional solution to regulate the issue in this proposal for a law on border control. When this Parliamentary Assembly adopts appropriate laws, then we will remove those provisions from this law. So we wanted one legal void that currently exists to be regulated in one of these ways. Also, one part of the DCAF’s remarks was not adequately explained and described, therefore, in this way, that we simply could not react, because the descriptive formulations were not concrete remarks. But here's to keeping much in DCAF's remarks, we held a meeting of 19.6th, which was attended by members of the working group on draft law on border control, representatives of the DCAF and members of this Joint Defence and Security Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. A very high quality and content debate has been held and we have considered all the comments submitted by the DCAF, and after the debate, a joint conclusion has been reached that amendments could be achieved to improve some of the legal solutions. Accordingly, the Ministry of Security drafted this amendment, a proposal for concrete amendments that reflected the essence of the agreement and offered to either the Commission or one of the paraliamentaries and our amendment in the second phase, in the second reading, offer to this Parliament, because they were fully acceptable to us in the ministry. Here, so I repeat again, so we've done everything that the Joint Defence and Security Committee has asked of us. So we acted on everything, agreed the text of the law with DCAF. I explained to you why we chose to continue these few provisions, so that they should be subject to future law on arms, law on maritime navigation, etc., remain in the text of this law only to bridge that legal void (when these new laws were deleted). I think that on one, let's say, a positive way to approach this whole problem. Unfortunately, unfortunately, the law was rejected by this one, on principle. Here, now, right to tell you, I don't know what's the next way. I expect Parliament to give us these instructions. But here I want to tell you, if this law falls, we can therefore draft a new bill with these amendments that we have agreed, but there is going to be a new procedure, you know, opinions, Council of Ministers, adoption, sending to Parliament, and that's certainly a few months. If we have time to wait so long, it's up to you to tell me. Here, I would be grateful to you that the importance of this law really in this House, in this high house, is treated in an appropriate manner, that this is an important obligation on BiH's European path and that you are actually helping the Ministry and the Council of Ministers to get this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20006	I thank the Honorable Minister. The first applied for the debate, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20007	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, when we first discussed this law in the Commission, we had a letter from this BiH Border Police and a letter from this Geneva Centre for Democratic Control of the renewed security sector, which said that this law contained some solutions that should be corrected, and, of course, the whole Commission, so now all the members of the Commission are on their way to try to be the ones to fix this law, bring it into line with European standards. Indeed, the law has meaning for these issues spoken by the Minister of Security, especially the Roadmap for visa liberalisation. And when we thought everything would be okay, that after the DCAF made its remarks and the Ministry of Security and the DCAF agreed on a solution, and we heard it in Geneva, too,...when this commission was downtown, up at DCAF, when we thought it would be all right, then we actually discovered the real problems, right? In the meantime, following the Commission's request, the representatives of DCAF and the Ministry of Security sat down and agreed on the actual text, ceasing these remarks to several amendments that should be accepted, so there are no problems for that, but then voiced the view that the law could not pass either, therefore, with these amendments. I even went down on this committee and suggested that with the conclusion that we accept the opinion, that we accept the law in the first reading, we say that it includes those amendments that are agreed between the Ministry of Security and the DCAF and that Dom knows, when he adopts it in the first reading, that the Commission has an obligation to adopt it as amendments in the second reading. But that didn't go away either. And about this law and the law before it, as well as some other laws, I see a serious problem. The Council of Ministers has proposed both of these laws and both of these laws experience the fate they experience here. This is closely linked to BiH's functioning, the role of the international community in BiH and the way decisions are made in BiH. We have been put in a position that because of the opinion of a member of the Commission, even though I don't know us, most of us think differently, we are in the situation we have come to. Is it possible that when you have solutions that are in line with European and international standards and there is a complete willingness to, let's say, respect it blindly, is it possible to actually give one man -- no, I won't, I won't because my entity doesn't accept it -- and we want to go to Europe, we want a liberalised or visa-free regime. And in all this, I am, right to tell you, looking at the role of the international community. And I think that, regardless of the international community has taken a course for domestic institutions in BiH to do as much work as possible, we are learning to talk about finding solutions. I don't think they can be just silent observers of the complete situation, because there are sometimes some situations that are related to the functioning of the earth. This is the situation where, first of all, the international community here, I think of OHR, should say something of it. I am taking this opportunity today, so I suggest, first of all, that this report be rejected. No Niko can be a hostage, a state cannot be a hostage or an entity or an individual. Here European standards are fully met. We want to go to Europe. And then someone says, "I won't do it." Why not? And then they're actually silent. It's said, "Let's make a deal." Here, we made a deal. Give it a little bit, gentlemen of the international community, an incentive for a positive one, because in BiH not everything is still at the same level as it should be, and especially the way decisions are made is not such that we can fully function without the presence of the international community and without its role. Because this is directly related to – I did not purposely speak to this dictionary when it comes to the previous 54 laws, it will be resolved – EUFOR has jurisdiction or authority or authority, however you will, to control the movement of military equipment and weapons. It will be until we resolve it even though it is very important, among other things, for the departure of the international community from BiH. This is how I speak about this law regarding everyone, about 4 million people living in this country and their freer, or easier movement around the world. I sat in Geneva in DCAF, so when I listened to that man, the Slovenac, and everyone when we listened, when he spoke about how important this is and how much standards concerning the Roadmap that BiH must meet when it comes to moving towards the European Union are already installed in this law. And this is really directly related to that map of roads and meet the conditions, and then one person, I'm not going to say that, which, no, I don't have the consent of the RS institutions, I don't give consent to, and things are standing, and the international community is watching it. I don't hear any reaction. I think that, if BiH were still, unfortunately, I wish I could speak differently, BiH is still not mature that it can function with this behaviour of the international community and I use this opportunity because I say, as far as all citizens are concerned, I have done everything that has happened to me and many members of the Commission. Let us all make an effort in BiH, because I think solutions are not such, or that the situation is not such, that it is not possible to find a solution. A small incentive is needed by the international community as well. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20008	Thank you. I've got two, either they're arguing or they're looking for a replica. So it's either a debate or a replica. So, the first one, in any case, came from the distinguished representative Novaković: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20009	Well, I have to say, I'm quite surprised with Mr. Džaferović's discussion. I don't know if this is an OHR's call to impose the law or if this is an invitation not to respect the Rules of Procedure and the way decisions are made in the joint committees. The same Rules of Procedure that we adopted in the last meeting, I mean unanimously! You see, not getting into the essence of the law, but you can't say that one man has decided or hasn't decided. Obviously something was missing before that, I guess. Here, I did not participate in this debate, but in the Explanation of this law, the 26th stand with which consultations were conducted in the process of drafting the law, according to the BiH Ministry of Security, the Border Police, the Directorate for indirect taxation, the Directorate for European Integration, the Office for the Law of the Government of the Federation of BiH, IOM, EU experts, EUPM etc., I have not seen any institutions from the RS. So, I haven't been able to read, here to find any institutions from the RS that have been consulted. Maybe it's not a problem, I'm not a member of the Commission, maybe it's not a problem in that one name and last name, I don't know who it is, I really don't know who it is, maybe it's a problem in what it says here. Furthermore, I accidentally attended a conversation where the representatives of the Border Police specifically opposed the adoption of this law. I don't know what the alignments were with them and who was working with them, but they asked the minority of us not to pass this law, the representatives of the Border Police, and those who are at the top of the border police. But in order for this to not be a discussion, so I will not answer for the discussion, I am truly surprised by the message that, despite Parliament's will, this law should be imposed by the High Representative. I thought we had ended this phase and that we are now in another phase in BiH's development. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20010	Thank you. Dear Representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20011	Well, I'm not surprised by what Mr. Džaferović said, it's in continuity and his view of how things should be decided in this parliament and how things should happen in BiH, and he has the right to his own desire, but I think that things will not happen and can't happen. Because if they were to happen by the scenario that he wants, then European integration has nothing, probably. There is no "d" of democracy, there is no "r" of equality, there is no "k" of consensus or compromise, but has dictatorship, protectorate and more. This is where we are expected to come with a warrant, with written papers with a warrant, and one round would politically put out orders to representatives of the international community who would turn us binding, and so thinks politics... She's shown for this for a few years that she's not good, so she's been run for a while. I mean, it turns out it's not good and it's not possible, it's not possible. Mr. Džaferović has silenced the position why this is happening at the Ministry of Security. I would ask, Mr. Džaferović, did you read the views of international community representatives at the Ministry of Security when representatives of the international community warned you about what is happening in the Ministry of Security and what is happening with the minister? You probably thought it was an internal interference in this country and an inappropriate warning, because we are the ones who are autonomously deciding on our minister. Here, I'll agree to that, but it's a principle for us, then it's a principle when it comes to these laws. You remember well that morning when we were met on the table with proposals, suggestions on that document that wasn't the most appropriate by DCAF. Then there was a great fuss: who brought a document, what a document, what is there to make it more complicated after that, that it was not so. I think there was a little scam going on. And later in Geneva, we were convinced that all these people were right, and I'm asking you -- what should have come if the word and the will of the international community in these things were respected, what did we come into this situation? What was the matter with you before these things ended? So it went one way, so when it didn't work out, we'll try another, and then we'll try the third, but we won't make a deal. Unfortunately, or fortunately, we need to make a deal, the result of this will be a deal. You know that there weren't things clean, you know how there was a suggestion, you know what the people of DCAF told us, you know who brought us into that situation. You know the position of the Director of the Border Police who is not from any entity, from any nation, to whom you have imputed all of this to which you have spoken. I'm asking you, why did we get into this situation? Here, we didn't participate in this, I won't call it a rough conflict but a disagreement, a disagreement within the Ministry of Security that, in some way, imputed to us, and you won't talk about how it happened and why it happened, and the fact that we were, in part, hostages of that kind of correspondence between the Minister and the Director of the Border Police, bypassing Geneva, because we were dumb observers until we realized that there was a problem. And if it wasn't for that correspondence, it would have been that story. We're not even ready to fall for these kinds of scams anymore. We look at things well and we read things well. There have been attempts in this parliament to plant a thing sometimes and to subdue itself under something that is not appropriate or undermining the international community's position. 56 I think we should go back that these aren't those times anymore, that people in the international community don't need them, it's obvious, and they don't want us to, if we're not able to solve these things, there's no need for them to solve them, there's no need. They showed good will, they did what was up to them and they think, if we want to go on, there's no place for their role as you wish. If we want to stand in place and go back, we have room, then that's where we can agree. That's where we can agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20012	Eh, now we've got, now there's a lot of you, so I'll take the order I've recorded you. First, Prime Minister Tarik Sadović. ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Replica, there's five of you to know, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20014	Dear Chairman, believe me, while discussing the honourable MP Kalabić, he was working briefly on this parliamentary reflex, so I wanted to, or instinct, so I wanted to replicate, but no, indeed, I gave up on it. So I want to talk about the facts. I don't think Mr. Kalabić really did anything about it, or he wouldn't listen to me. So, when this law was drawn up, the European Commission, Mr Kalabić, hired an expert from Latvia. So they hired him, the man worked with our experts, agreed the text of the law, got the text of the law. Be careful, therefore, no matter what the Minister of Security, but, therefore, the European Commission has said -- here, that's your expert, let him work with you. They've agreed. The work of this task force was attended by representatives of the Border Police. So, people from that institution from various constitutive peoples, it wasn't Tarik Sadović who set it up, but the border police sent their representatives and finished the text of the law. Well, then it's after-brains. Now, please, I'm not going to speculate on why this ex-post mind occurred, why the DCAF got involved in a way that, in my opinion, was still inappropriate. So we didn't avoid DCAF in any element. We want everything good that tells us, so people who tell us -- these are your Schengen standards, these are your European standards -- we'll do it. There's no bad intentions, it wasn't on our side. Here, I don't want to speculate whether there were certain cool games, etc., but please, I call you, so if it was all the way it was, if the Commission, therefore the parliamentary commission is unique, so everyone has raised their hands for it, say you have to agree, the Ministry of Security, the representatives of the Commission, the representatives of the DCAF, and if they agree in the end, what the Commission said, so this parliamentary Joint Commission for Defence and Security, we have done everything, and in the end, they say - people, what this said, and that's exactly what Ambassador Džaferović said, that's true. I mean, I'd love to, but it's like that, just one vote has challenged the principles of this law. Here, I'm asking you, but please be intellectually honest, let's ignore the political interests now -- how can I challenge the principles of the law, if there is already a Law on Oversight and 57 control of the crossing of the state border? This is the same law, but that law was adopted by the same principles. But it's technology. So, behind this, there is probably a kind of political will or trouble that we are in. I'm telling you, between what's declared as our political commitment, which is European integration, and what we're doing specifically, there's a big difference, there's a big difference. So, we've been prepared by the Ministry, and now we're ready, all that's agreed, if you, if Parliament says there's anything else, come on and we'll do it all, but don't break the law we need. Here, it was what it was like, let's let it go, let's get back to the point of this story. Here, I beg you, I invite you to a positive approach and it doesn't matter, after all, what happened.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20015	Thank you. Here, I'll read it now, so there's no dilemma, which is the order. The first, next, means the respected second deputy, the first vice president of Belkić, and Izetbegović, pa Huskić, pa Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20016	So, as it goes, there's always a better chance that the law won't be. But there's something about surprises. So everyone's surprised. I'm not, to tell you the truth, surprised, but I only want to comment on the following. I absolutely do not dispute the right of any MP, a group of MPs, or if they are defined by entities, to consult with whom they will, as they will, and whenever they will. However, it is very important to remember that this is a House of Representatives, that this is not the House of Peoples, the home of entities, and that its Rules of Procedure is not such a nature. So, on the one hand, it's absolutely not controversial to obtain opinions that are thought to be supplied, but we can't put it in as an official practice here. So I'm surprised when I heard this information, or different information, I don't know what it is now, which is not true, but I'm worried that in one commission, so people who work together have different information, different attitudes. Like, it's scary for me, he says, some border police people are against this law. What people from the Border Police, is institutional, how, did they deliver it here as their opinion, etc.? So, I'm really asking you to get back to the law and understand whether we need him or not. There's a lot of talk here about it. And we're looking for a way to bring it in, not contesting the right to consult, to obtain expert opinions, etc. But let's give that responsibility that Schaefik was talking about, etc. to show we don't need any summons, Momo. I didn't realize the summoning. I took it more as a reminder for us to do it ourselves. Here, the minister said that some amendments were in question, I don't know what it was about, but if that's what it takes, and he spoke about it, so we'll accept the amendments. But don't question the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20017	Thank you. The next one is Izetbegović, the esteemed representative. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20018	I have to admit that I'm surprised by my colleague Kalabić's discussion, because I don't see any substance in it, I don't see what I'd get caught up in that discussion. So, the problem is that there's been a law done on the Ministry of Security, so I don't know where else would this proposal for a border control bill be done? Which ministry? Next – reportedly, there is a transfer of jurisdiction from entity to state level! In what? What does an entity have to do with border control? Let us know that we know what the problem is and where we've gone. And third, most importantly, am I the content of the law? Apparently, there were some unacceptable games that they wouldn't agree to, something under the table, someone wasn't involved, something wasn't involved. If such things have happened, then tell me how this is reflected in this text, what is unacceptable? What Mr. Belkić says, here are the amendments. I've read this law thoroughly. This is, as far as I can understand this matter, a very good, quality law, edits the area, all these consultations are done, each one in this country will bring a good one law that regulates that matter in this way. If you think something is wrong with that, suggest an amendment, suggest what we do to make things even better, but do not so easily reject an important European law, a law on the European pathway. Bad message, I mean, if we're going to refuse this kind of thing without the right explanation, we're going to meet in a position not to go forward and then we're all standing. It's not just the Federation. The whole of BiH stands. It could take our trip to Europe for five years, and it could take 50 years, right? We're just torturing ourselves and our children and so on, tell us what the problem is. We're ready to work on fixing it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20019	The next is the distinguished representative Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20020	Thank you. Last time I remember, there was a story about this law that, in my opinion, this law is collateral damage to some personal relations in the Council of Ministers, I think, here's what you can see. At least that's how I feel about it, and it's gonna be hard for someone to convince me it's not like that. That's it, and look what it is: this is not the law of the Ministry of Security, this is the law of the Council of Ministers. All this talk later, she could apologize before the law was passed by the Council of Ministers. We get, on April 24th, we get the Council of Ministers law and then there are objections. He's sending one of the agencies from the Department of Security and sending DCAF. And then here, after the debate at Parliament and the Commission, the Commission concludes that a working group is being formed to take into account those comments submitted by the DCAF. And people come from the Ministry of Security and say, about here, I don't know, let's say, some big percentage remarks are purely technical and some are, like, qualitative and should be introduced. And amendments are made and this task force agrees that these are these amendments and proposes them, proposes and formulates and comes up with the law with that amendment, which follows it, at the order of the Defence Commission and then again... The Defence and Security Commission does not accept what I find incomprehensible and, moreover, it only strengthens me further that it is not really a law problem but rather a problem or someone else. And I think we rise above these things, solve things, problems where they are. If the problem is the minister, it should be discussed about the minister, not the law, and there is no point in breaking the law now because it was proposed by 59 Tarik Sadović who is publicly leading the controversy with Nikola Špirić. I've had it that way, and I think that's it. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20021	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20022	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, almost everything has been said, but it would be interesting, is it possible to get some 15 minutes off, to have Mr. Špirić come to tell us if we need him, whether this country needs this law or not? Whether this law allows citizens to have visa liberalisation, that it is on BiH's European path, as he said this morning. It'd be interesting to hear that. So we don't listen to different stories in different places of people who run this country. So, no one here calls upon anyone here not to respect the Rules of Procedure but to be called upon to adopt the law that needs this country. So, the role of the international community, here, I publicly invite them, the High Representative, to declare this law because it needs this country, because it needs citizens, not to be rejected because of someone's whims in this country to suffer thousands of citizens who wait every day in line for a visa. I mean, here, if we could get someone normal out of a normal country, you'd be amazed at these discussions of ours here. I mean, me, this is where the mind stops. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20023	Dear Representative Kalabić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20024	It would have been here, not getting into the essence of our relationships, a lot to say. But, Mr. Izetbegović, isn't it symptomatic that if we don't talk about entities, we're talking about the Director of the State Border Service that we need to respect, the Director of the State Border Service. If he was explicitly against this and within Mr. Sadović's ministry and made it clear that he was against, and he should with his service do this, so can you accept it at least a little bit to hear the arguments to say - so come on, people, let's see why the man is against it. He's not from the RS and he's not a Srbin. And can you now say that this man doesn't matter, that he's absolutely irrelevant, that he's irrelevant? Please, so on the Commission, when we said... even, we didn't get into the debate at all, the first document that came in front of the State Border Service came in. So this isn't what you wanted. A good part of Mr. Huskić's discussion, here I can accept. So, you didn't want to talk about it there, because relations are obviously bad in that ministry, but you give over the back of the Commission or part of the MPs to get rid of it. Well, it won't work. It doesn't make sense that this ministry doesn't carry out what's agreed and what's, that's too big a difference, to tell me it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter, it'll work that way. Is it logical that the law of 60 members, of 60 members, gets 70 amendments? Is it logical? Is it logical? And says our Rules of Procedure, they say our rules, what happens when you get into a situation that you've done so badly 60 laws to which international institutions deliver 70 amendments. And it doesn't matter, like everyone's against the road to Europe now. I'm watching Mr Ahmetović, when there was a story about the police, if you had repeated that story, it would have been ideal. If you had repeated that story back then, it wasn't about the European way, now it's about the thread, like I don't know it now. And then and now, if we're principled people, it's the same story. Then you convinced us here, there's no way you'd make combinations to prevent the adoption of those laws, which were the condition that we could do this today at all. Now, like you forgot it, now the problem is here. And here's no problem with us. It takes all the time, we don't have time, and it may not be fair to the whole Parliament to say what was going on on the Commission. I don't think we're controversial in this law, let me tell you right now, and I'm not sure what the result of the vote will be, let me tell you right now. But what I'm saying is, it's not right for you to ask us to ignore the minister's disagreement with the director of the service that needs to carry out this and whose experts have been identified through the documents sent to us on the Commission and through the position of the Director of the Border Service disagrees. So that, please, I will end up with this disagreement, so that the Director of the Border Service disagrees with DCAF and force us into this procedure to subsequently include all those who were to agree and they were subsequently involved. I ask you, why aren't they immediately involved? Was that a problem? Was there a problem for these people to sit down and make them agree? I don't think it was a problem. But, simply, there was a log and on the cabin so that things wouldn't be solved on the cabin – they'd be solved through us. And then comes – and we have a clear Rules of Procedure, we have a clear position of decision and it is not correct, if the voice of that one MP in the Commission has decided, why have the votes of the other Members not been obtained, if there is a majority. It's not one, there's more. Don't caricate the thing. You don't need to caricate the thing. We need to find a solution here, we need to find, I think, and now I'm going to be direct, that it was not a problem that the matter got complicated, the thing was that there were incorrect bad relations within the Ministry of Security that were being transmitted through Geneva, which through the MPs to each other, and we were even partially hostage, and then, what Mr. Huskić said, we began simply to get out of it in a normal way. And we gave these suggestions and we formed this task force, and we asked for it all to be done. And today he's keeping quiet about it, like that history doesn't know, but now suddenly there's been a problem, everything's going perfectly. Don't, I mean, caricate things that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20025	Here you go, dear representative Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20026	If I have to admit that I don't know the gene of all that you just said, however,... if the Director of the State...... had the border service, if he had too many objections, then they should have reflected today through our amendments, if you believed in them, if you think it's okay to say no, not just because the minister didn't like it, or, I don't know, because there were any shootings, some cabin they crashed on, etc. They should have made that clear, we're still ready if you have some amendments that fix the text to think about them and to consider them.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20027	The next is distinguished representative Džaferović: replica. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20028	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues! My colleague Kalabić, there is no question about what you are talking about. I'm one of those who, when he saw the letter from the Director of the Border Police who contradicted the law, was based for example. to the DCAF, said - the Ministry of Security and the DCAF. That means the border police and everyone sit down and find solutions that can be acceptable. I was the one. The Commission accepted this fully. And that's no problem at all. I'm glad that, after this debate, this debate certainly has its benefits, you have the discussion that you had before, but the problem is that, and I have therefore addressed the international community, I don't know what the man is doing anymore, look out. Now it's all done. They all sat down on our orders and the Ministry of Security and the DCAF and the Border Police, it was built and placed in several or several amendments to which the Commission expressed its readiness. Here, I will suggest, or anyone, that they be adopted. And then, one of my colleagues or colleagues, it doesn't matter, so one member of the RS commission says no, I won't. No one has the right to say that - I won't. This country has to work in a situation where an individual says - I won't. And, I remember that, so two, two laws are in the same way, that's what I was talking about. And the role of the international community and all of us here. I wanted this thing honest, people, to get serious. This way we won't get as far as we can. And that's why my discussion was like that. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20029	The next is the distinguished representative Ahmetović: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20030	You can't compare this to the police. So if you want me to answer you again why I didn't vote for police reform laws, I'll tell you again. But we'll reopen the big discussions. And you know why I didn't, and I would never vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20031	Dear Representative Novaković joins the replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20032	This is another replica, is it, but no, I did not join the replicas but I mean that there is a mechanism, that there is a mechanism that makes it impossible, as counterpart Ahmetović said, the whim of an MP. So I don't think it's a whim. But there's a mechanism, and that's what we have today. So we have a negative report and we have a mechanism not to accept a negative report, and to take advantage of the time until the new Commission meeting, that this one MP is convinced that he is wrong. So there's a mechanism, one MP can't stop the law. But of course, if the other institutions stand behind that MP, then that's the problem. But then it's not the whim of one, but then it's something else, a whim more, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20033	No more reports for replicas. There's no record of a hearing. 62 questions, right? Here's a question: Honorable representative Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20034	After all the debates, let me just ask a question. There was a misunderstanding by Mr. Džaferović, who in fact agreed that a certain group of amendments should be proposed which could pass. Right? So this is a procedural matter. We should now vote in favour of the Commission's report and it enters the decision-making phase, where amendments would affect this law. And as Mr. Novaković said, I think there's a chance that in that time, it means an amendment, if all this is agreed, that these delegates who are in that commission agree and that position passes. So I think that, if that's the case, this is the only solution that's possible right now. If I'm right, if I understand correctly, I'll be glad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20035	So, are there any more reported? There isn't. We discussed this, or should have discussed the opinion of the Joint Committee, and we can accept this opinion. If we accept it, the law falls, if we refuse it, we return the law to the Committee. Here, if this is it, and only after that can there be amendments, etc., etc. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We're going to the 12th point, Ad. 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Policy Act (first reading) On 26 June 2008, the Council of Ministers submitted the draft law to the parliamentary procedure. The Constitutional Legislative Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis on 4 July 2008. The opinion on the principles was delivered by the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs on 23 July 2008. The commission unanimously accepted the principles of the proposed law. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Honorable representative Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20037	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, you have said well, and we have unanimously adopted on the Commission, but we have been in a dilemma. This is about fundamental changes, and that is, not to harass my colleagues, the issue of civil protection, fire equipment and some other means that should be released from customs and to be obtained during this season. I asked that on the Commission. We may not have done business in respect of the procedure to go through with the emergency procedure, because we didn't arrive at the time of 63 to do it all, but I'm really asking an indicative question that this law doesn't drag us there after vacations, and then it won't be necessary for anyone, because it's expected that this is exactly the time and season when these fires are in effect. So the people wouldn't laugh at us if we were to pass the law in December to release some means that would be used to prevent fires, which would be used by fire services and civil protection, which is exactly the time. So I ask the College: Is there a possibility that since there is nothing controversial – we have obtained everything, all opinions, and the Directorates for indirect taxation and we have been unique and this Parliament has nothing to do with and there is not much change – can we adopt this right now to pass this in the second reading. Is there a business opportunity for us to declare this, to enable these people who are engaged and even getting donations to release those funds from customs? Well, at least here we can be unique. Can we find a way, because I did ask the Commission a question: "Don't, people, that we are allowed to have this law passed in November, when there will be no fire, when there will be snow, I don't know the rain, what will happen. Let's at least speed this up. Here, no problem about anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20038	Mr. Jovičić, Parliament can do anything if it decides, yes. Here's a little joke, here's the Secretary of the House says, of course, if you're articulating, or you represent the majority's opinion, and if you count on it to be a support, we can decide today to vote on the second phase, or without the commission phase and adopt the law today. You don't have to apologize, I answered, so, you just don't know when to decide, do you now or later? So, when we vote on the first reading, if it goes through in the first reading, you're going to suggest we vote in the second. The home will be determined and there is a theoretical chance that we can adopt it. Here, I welcome this initiative by Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20039	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20040	Is it me or Jovičić? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20041	Well, I don't think it's possible what you said. In fact, it's impossible to change the Rules of Procedure without a business procedure. Look out, this is where you work...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20042	I agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20043	...on the position in the Rules of Procedure which is clearly defined after the first reading, 15 days for the amendment procedure, and then the second reading goes. Therefore, it is not possible to amend the Rules of Procedure without a business procedure. 64 What's interesting is that you are fully aware of all of this, the 20th and whom, 26. Six. The Council of Ministers proposes law in regular procedure, please. So, the Council of Ministers and the competent ministry proposes law in the ordinary procedure. I guess they weren't aware of what you're saying that there might be a fire in this period now. So it is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers. I don't think it's possible, but, of course, it won't be our first time to do what's not possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20044	I thank Mr. Novaković. So we interpreted Article 106 of point 4 where he said: 'If it is estimated that it is a small degree of complexity law, the House may decide to consider the bill in a second reading, without considering it in the competent commission, or phase two.' So that's our interpretation. But here, anyway, we're gonna do this the way Mr. Jovičić suggested, see what Dom says about it. Are there any further reports to discuss this issue? If not, then I conclude the debate in the first reading of the Customs Policy Act. Moving to point 13. Ad. 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Milorad Živković, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission The bill was submitted by MP Živković on 11 July 2008. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on constitutional basis and on the principles on 24 July this year. You could see that the Constitutional Commission has established that there is a constitutional basis for this law. However, the Constitutional Commission did not accept the principles, i.e. the principles of the bill. So at this point, we are discussing and deciding on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, with the bill being rejected, if we adopt the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. I'm opening a debate on item 13. Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20046	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I am certainly expressing my opinion, although I was in the session of the Constitutional Commission and normally voted for it. The intention to change the Council of Ministers Act and the need to change it, in any case, exists, and I would certainly support it to pass the law, to pass a law amending the Council of Ministers, not only by creating a ministry of European integration which is certainly necessary, but even if we go also 65 broader and agricultural law, for which all farmers, regardless of which part of the country they live, are calling for it, is not at all controversial. However, in any case, I have a different approach than the proposed approach, which is that the European Integration Ministry opens up at the expense of the Ministry of Refugees and Human Rights; I certainly don't think that the time has come that can be done and it would actually be one big mistake of this Parliament and of all of us sitting here if we look at our conscience to do it in this way, so before some estimates even 10% to 20% of all people have returned to their original hearths from which some have gone by their own free will, some have gone as expelled or some have gone as refugees, you can call them whatever you want, but these people haven't achieved what human and fundamental right to return to the places where they lived before they came to this affair, let's call them in BiH. For my thesis that it is too early and unnecessary to sacrifice such an important ministry as this, which I was talking about before, so I can tell you that we are only, perhaps, this Parliament, for the first time since 1996, so we mention that it has given them one and succeeded in budgeting to provide a certain amount of money that could mean something in the return of refugees to their basic human rights, which is to restore their home or allow them to work in their place of life, where they were, and everything else. To create some directorates in the ministries, these are meaning lower instance, where they can't decide on their own... at a certain point and a series of proposals and... implementation of certain projects, I think it would be very, very harmful and at this point I could neither vote nor raise my voice. From that point of view, I think that we as an institution, as a House of Representatives, can welcome the idea that I should create the Ministry of European Integration, an idea that I propose to extend even to another ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture for which we are calling, but I would not be able to accept that at the expense of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees at this moment, that at the expense of this ministry, which I expect to receive special results in this year, and especially in the coming year, where I hope that in the budget, we will provide for even greater funds for refugee returns, to take one big step that is mandatory, and if you want me to say, that is a human step that we should take in this country. So I support the findings and support the Constitutional Commission's opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20047	Thank you. The following has been reported to the esteemed representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20048	Thank you, Chairman. Here, for the debate on point 13 and point 14 relating to the same matter, or similar, I would suggest that we unite the debate on these two points. I would like to remind you that BiH, or the Council of Ministers, had a ministry... May I continue? That the Council of Ministers, or our law, was time-consuming and functioning by the Ministry of European Integration, that on the basis of up to 2003, somewhere in the beginning of 2003, the amendments to the law were created by the Directorate on the basis of this ministry and the reasons, here, I will only remind you of some and on the supported, of course, and the analyses made here by domestic and international organisations and on the basis of experiences that have passed 10 countries at that time, which have already been approaching membership and will become members of 2004; there were, among other things, the reasons for the need for all relevant bodies, especially in complex organisational structures, to coordinate activities related to the European path and obligations that one country has on the European path, which is a much more efficient mechanism in relation to the component, to say, one administration in the form, i.e.e. I will only remind you of those who do not know: the last European integration minister was Mr Dragan Mikerević in the Council of Ministers. And, among other things, for BiH, examples of some neighbouring countries have been analysed and it has been concluded that, for example, Slovenia had and not just Slovenia on its way to EU membership, which had this directorate, or one body such as the Directorate, have responded much faster to the requirements of the European path than is the case, for example, with countries that had the Ministry of Integration. Let me also remind you, let's say, that the neighbouring Republic of Croatia that had the Ministry of European Integration has also changed the Law on Government, so the Ministry of European Integration has joined one part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the extent that it is the competence of foreign affairs, and most of the activities related to certain segments have been located in the ministries dealing with the operational affairs it relates to. I therefore appreciate that without a more detailed analysis and thick arguments -- why should we now return to the Ministry of European Integration, not to argue that this is a good solution now for BiH, I don't know, but that without any analysis now, we would be back to the situation from 2003, early 2003, it seems to me that this proposal is a little bit more excitable. On the other hand, I appreciate, forming or proposing the formation of the Ministry of European Integration, more in the context of a second-related proposal that has brought here in connection with the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, and let me mention that the country whose constitution is defined in the Annex of the Peace Agreement and also the country which, in another annex, therefore, has the same specific weight as the Constitution, has what concerns the return of people to BiH, the return of refugees to BiH is not the case of refugee returns as in other countries and also with problems of this kind because the specific weight of the problems BiH faces in recent history is not compatible with other countries. I'll just remind you that on the basis of the documents made by the Resolute Ministry, or 'Revised Strategy' which refers to the return in the context of the implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, I'll just remind you that still 2.2 million people, or half of the 2.2 million, therefore over one million people, have the status of displaced and refugees who have not yet returned to their homes. So after so many years of the end of the war, we have more than one million people in one of the key annexes of the Peace Agreement, i.e. we have more than a population that has not yet returned to their homes. Furthermore, let me remind you that it is approximately, let's say, not to mention the threat, the trauma, etc. people – but 45,000 units of returnees are still waiting for restoration or because the terrain in their return sites is not yet cleared from mines, 45,000 therefore units. Sadly, let us also mention 2,500 families, or families living in collective accommodations. So, so many years after the war, we face such serious indicators that require a serious engagement and a serious approach when it comes to co-ordinated, as it deserves, to say, structure within the Council of Ministers, which is the ministry. No directorship would coordinate activities, etc. and I think that to compare and tie up the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and possibly return to the Ministry of European 67 Integration, by nature things couldn't be tied down. Therefore, not only does it seem to me that he is in the background but he can have many serious problems in his implementation, which BiH would deal with hundreds of years in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20049	Thank you. As at the beginning of this debate, I think that the proposal is correct, and I will propose the same way that points 13 and 14. to bring the debate together, since the agenda points are tied up. If there are no different points of view, that I don't put on a statement, and I don't see it, I see no nod, and then I'll read the opening notes at point 14. And then we'll continue the debate. So point 14. Ad. 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the BiH administration – Proposer: Representative Milorad Živković, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission We have all the same elements as in the previous wheel. Therefore, the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission delivered on 24 July 2008, the constitutional legal basis was adopted but the principles of the bill were not accepted. We discuss and decide opinions as well. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Džaferović and Novaković, so I will move on then.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20051	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues! So you're right to put this debate together. So this is one idea, one operation that is trying to be realized, and it's only possible to implement it through two laws. So, one that talks about the Council of Ministers, and the other one that talks about the ministries, that's how it works. I don't think this is a good idea. The essence of this idea is that the existing Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees becomes a directorate and that the existing Directorate for European Integration becomes a ministry. Now, here's the other one. There are different experiences in the countries that have joined the EU and most of the matter has been resolved in the end, is that, in fact, it was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which played a prominent role in the matter of the government and the Ministry of European Integration, which we have today in the BiH system. And that's why I don't think that thing should change. I think that for now we have one satisfactory capacity institutional to follow our European path through therefore the Directorate for European Integration and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because the experiences of the countries that had both the ministry have shown conflicts of competence within these ministries, and then only produces 68 further problems. And I don't think that's good. And first of all, this is actually something that, to be honest, we don't have to debate much here in Parliament. It's a matter of refugees and displaced persons and human rights. Human rights will long require a ministry-level portfolio in BiH. And the issue of return, i.e., the refugee issue will require a portfolio, as long as Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement is not realised. For the first time since Dejton in the state parliament in this year, we have allocated more significant funds for the realization of Annex VII. So far, it's mostly when the state is talking about millions or up to two to three million marks, this time it's over 30 and a little bit of a million. There is a fund, and I think that instead of talking about abolishing the Ministry of Refugees and Human Rights, we need to work on a more efficient and faster realization of Annex VII and making it more effective to protect human rights, and that should be a discussion, and that's actually a topic to deal with this ministry. That is why I think that this law, that is, these laws proposed by the distinguished colleague Živković, cannot be supported even at the level of principle. We had, therefore, five members of the Commission present at the Constitutional Legal Commission, as you can see from the Report. There were no colleagues of Jukić and Prodanović on the official road, counterparts Kalabić and colleagues of Novaković who were absent. Most of the time, they were prevented from being on the Commission, such is the report by the Secretary of the Commission. The other part, therefore, was in the quorum, unanimously with five votes "yes", without "against" and without "restricted" votes, took the view that none of these laws should be supported either in principle, and I propose to Parliament, or the House of Representatives, to accept the Commission's reports on both laws. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20052	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20053	First of all, I have to be honest with you, I don't see the proposal's intention completely clear to me. So I haven't even had a chance to talk to him about these laws, and that's why I'm not going to talk about the laws, but I'm going to talk about some other issues that are about these laws. In fact, you see, equality of this ministry is equally successful protection of human rights and refugees, it is equal to the amount and success of spent money, it does not stand. Because if it stands, then the Directorate for European Integration... is equal to the speed of EU accession. So it's not possible, it shouldn't be a reason for not accepting these laws. Because, simply, the success of protection and return and refugee and human rights is not related to whether there is a ministry or not, but in what way the institution is dealing with it, to what extent it does with the success of the job and what support it has from whoever gives the money. So that's the essence, not that there's a ministry or there's no ministry. On the other hand, if it's being watched, then setting up that the Ministry will be as long as there are refugees and displaced persons, it doesn't make sense. I repeat, in that I do not fully understand the proposal's intention but I also have questions that I could not answer myself and I am sorry that I did not attend this session of the Constitutional Commission, I think this is the only 69 Constitutional Commissions I have not attended. In fact, for Mr. Huskić's law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Official Messenger, we sought for several months the position of the Council of Ministers, so we waited, so we postponed, so the economic elements were sought etc. So whether we destroy or do not destroy an institution, etc. etc. And for the two laws concerning key matters related to the functioning of the ministries, no one has thought to ask the Council of Ministers' opinion, no matter what! I don't even know if the legislator was present at the Constitutional Commission session. If he wasn't, then no one thought of delaying the debate until the promoter came to explain his motives. It's about the vice president. It's a party that makes up the parliamentary majority here. And finally, even today, we have not thought to discuss this, because there are no proposings, but we are having a debate on this Commission report without the opportunity for the Proposer to explain in any way what the idea of this proposal is for him. I don't think it's good, not because it's about the deputy, but because it's about a fellow MP, it's not good that we haven't given enough attention to one offer of solutions which, of course, here it is obviously not acceptable. And I don't argue that it's not acceptable. I don't even argue that I'm wrong because I think having the Ministry doesn't mean we've managed to raise human rights in this country to the level where someone envys us. I even think that if they looked at it like that, then either this ministry or these people who are at the head of that ministry -- they should imagine what they're sitting there for, if they haven't realized everything they were expected to do! But I don't want to discuss it that way, because I don't think it's the proposal's intention. So it would be good if we could allow the motionor to say a few words about this to this Parliament. Whether it's possible or not, of course it depends on us, as we were just talking about those possibilities. We may have a chance here, but of course, it depends on all of us here. Well, here's one of my suggestions to try to get a man here at least if he didn't make it on the Commission, at least here try to explain his idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20054	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20055	Dear Chairman, here's a part of Mr. Novaković said. So, there are no proposings and it's obvious that both the bill and the other bill will not be supported but at least it's as good as an initiative to think about what this should do to make us benefit more and not to do it in favour of our own damage. Since it's obvious, I said he wouldn't get any support, then I'll speak shorter. So we all said - we want to join the EU. Then we have to make a very fast strategy. Whether it'll be through the Ministry, I don't know what, the Directorates or everyone gets engaged, and just eyes in Brussels. Three things: strengthen the embassy, strengthen representatives there in co-operation with the European Commission and a delegation with the NATO Pact. There's no obstacle, just Brussels and, of course, we're here with good logistics. I can't tell you now what the numbers of people, all kinds of agencies, what we're going to need in these changes and get going. So, it would be the first one to be a pawn if there was one institution, here's Mr. Živković's proposal for the ministry, of course not as an independent, unless this second ministry becomes a directorate. 70 Now, the other thing is of course not going to get a question and I'm asking one key question: whether 10 people, 100 or 1,000 will condition that this ministry lasts as is an obligation to last the Ministry of Security for all time, because security is a dynamic, current category and will always be interesting. So I'm going to ask Parliament, right after the break, we've had all kinds of strategies -- what we should all do together and all the institutions, tell people who want to go back, and we know what the problems are, from education, health, houses, jobs, we all know that. But will, I repeat, 100 people here, or 1,000 who will never come back and will always tell, stop another story about the census, say, about some other things that BiH is waiting for, so there have been various surveys, you know, various NGOs, this one said I'll come back, give it to me, and this one says I'll never, ever. Is this story about refugee returns going on for another 50 years or are we going to say, "Let's go, people, in some optimal time, there are people who will come back and in these difficult conditions, there are people who won't come back to give them businesses, buildings, work, that they have their hospitals, not people." But we don't have that data. Of course, this isn't the story of abolishing this Department of Refugees and Human Rights. It'll always be a problem. But I'm asking until when, because what, maybe people shouldn't trust us, so let's just say, here we are, here we are today, in three years this ministry doesn't exist. I believe that this would call upon me the people, that the general rush would be who would solve all their problems that I press them to return. So can this Parliament, can it have the strength to form at least one commission and that every other night here we rent a program, if these media don't give it every night, here, if they don't believe me, let them believe me, I guess there's a man to trust. People, Bošnjak, get back to RS! Hrvat, return to Savino! And you say, "Get the Srbin back here to Sarajevo!" Can anyone do that? Someone's telling me here in Parliament, I don't know if there are five journalists here to record this, those poor people don't know, don't keep aneks vi, we didn't respect it even in the starting position. We've never formed a fund to compensate for a destroyed asset. It was a task, it was a duty. What are we going to do to these people who will never come back, and someone destroyed them, they have nowhere to go. Is there anyone who can make it up to them?? So I really plead – and when I hear the word of an expert, I get chills, I can't come to myself, because in this country the most experts have for everything and everything – let's just let us regular MPs, the people we represent the people, sit down after the break and say, "The return of the refugees is the main one." Mr. Belkić, the people love you, let's go back where they need to go, we go together and we call the people, we call the tent, we set up a tent settlement, and we call people to come back, not them to be, but us. And no, these announcements there will buy some suits to our administrative service, those that... say, "Slavuj, did you get a new suit today?" Five journalists met me, and I haven't bought a new suit in three years. As long as we're served more by each and every one of us alive. I'm out of the agenda, and everything's on the agenda. So, please, let's go, people, after a vacation this year have initiatives to think about. Here, I guarantee you, I'm going to go and form a mentor's settlement where you say the Bošnjak don't come back and call them every day. But seriously call them, not demagogue! But don't keep telling that story that we haven't realized Annex VII, so we can't run the list, so we can't do this, so we can't do that, so we can't mate as much as we need school, student. _________(?) 71 [[no microphone turned on]] Please. So I speak temperamentally from the soul which I think; who likes it, but I think this is a story for everything acceptable. Let's do a lot of things like that. In many things, Mr. Izetbegović, I said I respect you. Money? Let's get in charge of what we're in charge of, let's do a lot of work to help the people, but that's not just a matter that's being solved here Srbin don't give RS and the Bošnjak haven't come back. So does anyone ask what today...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20057	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20058	...lives 3% of Srbin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20059	Replica, a respected representative of Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20060	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would actually call it a single comment. I would say, first, that this ministry is called the Department of Human Rights, and then, in its second section of refugees. In our constitution, one of the key human rights is the right to a home. The right to a home means the right of these millions and 100,000 refugees to their own home. In order for someone to be able to achieve their right to a home, there must be a certain assumption, which is a sustainable return. A sustainable return involves a certain economic base and a certain infrastructure, which is health, social policy, education, culture, etc. Therefore, the existence of this ministry of human rights is something that will absolutely be imperative both in the future and in BiH's path to Europe, because BiH is a signator of, in its path to Europe, a whole series of international conventions on human rights. Otherwise, because of the specific situation in this home and in the country at a given time, we do not have the opportunity to discuss human rights in a way that is likely to be discussed by our future generation. But I am responsibly saying... that human rights in this country are currently in one specific situation, I would not want to say now positive or negative, we all live our private lives and we know what it looks like to be the human rights of our neighbours, our neighbours, our colleagues, and ourselves, in some segments of life, and I think that this ministry absolutely with its entire infrastructure has its full capacity to continue to work and to remain a permanent ministry of human rights, because human rights are the basis of democracy, and it will certainly, if we want to do so, force Europe to think even more about human rights. And as for the proposing's intentions, there are arguments on pages 5 and 7 and one and another law which is quite clear, regardless of the presence of Mr. Živković from today's session, an absolute explanation is something that exists and I think it is very specific. Thank you. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20061	Thank you. The following, for the correction of the incorrect allegations, has been reported by the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20062	Well, my colleague Jovičić mentioned on several occasions that most of these people won't come back, etc. I just want to say that I've been processing official data, precisely quantified demands, so people who want to return, the number of housing units, the number of people, the number of families that live in collective accommodation, etc., the number of those who wait. In that sense, a good part of my colleague Jovičić's discussion is, I should say, in some other way in terms of data, official data. So I'm not talking about those who make their choice. Secondly, I would completely agree with my colleague Jovičić to allow as soon as possible that whoever wants to return, return as soon as possible, and terminate the Ministry of Refugees immediately. If there really is a will, general, here in this Parliament, here we are, at our disposal to make it real as soon as possible, and the proposal that fellow Jovičić mentioned in the context and financing of the return, in order to make it real, I suggest that it be a contribution to preparing the 2009 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20063	Is there any more replicas on the gentleman's access? There is. Here's Honorable Representative Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20064	Well, I can't say again to this colleague and friend of mine, to a man who, on the same year, on the same day, was in this room the same night that we brought independence, so I wouldn't give him any trouble, so I'm sorry, so we don't give him any trouble, but that's one fact. I'm not a fan of thinking that people won't come back. Personally, I don't think we've made enough effort to get people back. I was on this committee, come on, it was called, it seems to me, the return committee for refugees and displaced persons in the Federation Parliament, and in one delegation we went to Brcko. And when I first came to Brcko, normally most of Brcko was destroyed. People in one neighborhood said they weren't coming back, in the other end that they weren't coming back because there was a psychological moment in people, and last year I went private to Brcko to see how it was going, and then I was amazed at how many people they wanted and how much they could come back. And that's an example actually that people want to come back, when they create certain conditions for return... they will say, normally, that in Brcko Court's district the judge's salary was 3,000 marks or a doctor 4,000 or 3,500 marks, and in these other parts it wasn't done. However, in other parts of both the Federation and the Republic of BiH, it is different to return to different places and it can be seen exactly where there is actually obstruction and where there is no obstruction. With one man, selecting only one man as head of Doboj Municipality, more than 13,000 people returned to Doboj during his term of office. Also, during one man, the head of the Teshanj municipality, there was no return of 13,000 Srbin because they were never so many in Tesnje, but most of those who intend to return 73 have returned, but the condition was for people to return to give them the opportunity to live,... work. And in the facility where I work, everyone who came back got a job, and that was an obligation, a legal obligation for all businesses and all institutions to provide the returnees with jobs when they return. My wife worked in Doboj at the Educational and Pedagogical Institute, she's a doctor of science, but she was ready to go back to Doboj to her workplace.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20065	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20066	Normally, she wasn't provided, she was looking elsewhere, etc. So, to cut short, to finish, people want to come back if we give enough opportunities for people to come back.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20067	Thank you. Dear representative Jovičić: answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20068	First of all, to a respected professor. I wouldn't want that time to be mentioned ever again. In that country when we were, uh, ruined, now let's build it. So it's a completely different story. She's ruined. We're building something else now. We were and then we were, that's right, here we are. Now, I haven't said many won't, because many can be of 100, but I don't know if it's from a million and 100 grand, because I don't know if there's that much. I'd like to know about it, so I say, "You will, these won't." And you who will, if you understand me correctly, call them every day and I'll be there. To make this more important to me than here, whether I speak five times or once. Because that's more useful. So, I was just saying in the context of this delay in return for 50 years to prevent other activities, and this is also a census and something else that we insist on both European criteria and principles and what we have to do in the meantime, I was saying in that context. I'd like to know, we can never know exactly, but about 50,000 wants to come back. Can we give back 50,000 people in two years to have that strategy? Well, I say the numbers now, I won't bid now, but here. Can we make it possible for these people? Can we get a team that will never, and we know they won't come back, make up for the destroyed assets through that fund? Can we solve these problems? I'm up for it. And what I want for a respected professor I respect, of course, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. Professor, once, I mean, you don't have to agree with me. No institution will protect human rights, it was called the Ministry, the Directorate, Parliament, but we, the people we represent, are violating most of their human rights. We're breaking them. It was called the Ministry, the Council of Ministers, the Parliament, no one will protect these people from human rights, but by our inaction and misrepresentation, we violate these human rights. So, until there was this ministry, human rights were respected in this country. There could have been a lot of work going on, at least in that system that the professor was talking about. 74 So please, I did not say in this context that it should not be the Ministry. It could be an institution, whatever we call it. Of course, there won't be a consensus here and a deal to get rid of this today, but we could leave it in the process to see what the Council of Ministers thinks, so we can push them through this thinking to solve this, and the issue of refugees and these European integrations that we're all for -- there's no giving up on that road, there's no interruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20069	Thank you. Dear Representative Izetbegović: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20070	So it's early to talk about abolishing the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. This is the country's biggest problem to be reduced by a distance from the time of the war, but it is still very expressed still has the need for a strong organisation and funds to be monitored by the organisation. If we gave one million, as it has been so far, Mr. Jovičić, to this ministry, then it wouldn't be enough 500 years to get the refugees back, let alone 50! I mean, nice words, let's tents, let's go to the field, but then we give one million to get back for the most serious problem, because in this country there's 2.2, so half the population of this country has experienced, that's that common people, you know, who was unarmed, who lived their peaceful little lives, they experienced an army coming to their door and driving them out and raping someone and killing someone. And then a lot of us go crazy here after the war, and we were hoping that it would be the one who put up, pitted, and that it would once segregate, separate. But that was unfair. That was ugly. It's not right to do that. Then we gave small funds to the budgets, little segregation. A strategy, an innovative return strategy, will now be proposed, and we can focus seriously on this serious issue and give serious resources to it. We can do it now. In the Federation last year, 2% of Budgets were set aside for return, multiethnic return and 10% of all that comes through privatisation. And that could bring about half a billion a year. On the basis of four years, it could be 2 billion, and if we separate anything else from the RS, from... the state, and we can get to 5-6 billion funds and seriously help these 130,000 people who, 130, are. Only 40,000 houses per 20-25 thousand is one billion. We can do it this time, we have to do it. And we need, normally, the Ministry of European Integration and we need the Ministry of Agriculture and we need the Ministry of Education, Culture, Youth, Technology and so, we can do all that, and we need a list and we need a list. And we need to implement that decision on the constitutionality of the people, so that the Srbin also return to power in the Federation, every municipality, that the Bošnjak return and the Hrvat return, if they have a good will to... give people, not just to talk and boast, then give one million for these purposes to the refugee ministry annually. And we need that Annex VII and so on. All this is what this country needs. And if we're responsible people and benevolent people, we'll do it all, not just pick up on some of it. So, I think that this date of the Ministry's Directorate is premature and that we need to think about actually making three ministries, three ministries to make and supplement the Council of Ministers Act. We'll be on the Commission's report and against this kind of banal rock.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20071	Dear Representative Novaković. Is it a replica or a debate? 75
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20072	Replic, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20073	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20074	Well, maybe I should have let Mr. Kadrić speak, so that everyone from the BiH Party can speak, and only then should I report in, since obviously the task here is to defend the minister, not something else. So, here, there's, there's a minister, I'd like to know: how much of the appropriations in the budget this year have been spent for the first six months on return programmes? I say, there's a minister, and I'd like the minister to answer me as much as he is, so let's see if there's a problem with the approved funds or the projects. Well, then we could still drag this story out, but, I repeat, I think we went the other way. Here we had two laws that spoke of something completely different, we began to talk about the problem of returning, the return of refugees and displaced faces. I'm asking the chairman to direct this discussion to the laws and nothing else. So we have the Commission's report, the Commission's report is clear. If we're in favour, against, there's no problem and we're moving on.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20075	Here, everyone, please just discuss the agenda points, don't talk about anything else. Is he okay? Will you respect? Well, thank you very much. Next, is there any more replicas? There isn't. Let's move on now, let's move on to the debate. The next is the renowned representative Genjac, so the next is the distinguished representative Dokić, then the next Huskić, then Bećirović, pa Raguž, pa Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20076	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues, fellow guests, I will therefore speak of the principles of the law, because it is on the agenda. This principle, based on both law and law, contains two procedures: the abolition of one ministry, the replacement of the ministry to the new ministry and the establishment of a new ministry. I am against all three principles and on the Constitutional and Legal Committee I didn't even need the Council of Ministers' position on this, because I have enough assumptions and information to create my own position. In fact, whether or not the Ministry of Human Rights should be abolished has already been spoken enough. I would only point out that I see no problem, as long as there is a violation of human rights in BiH, that there is a Ministry of Human Rights. I don't see the need to limit it. However, I will stick to something more on the principle of introducing a new European Integration Ministry. I think it is important to keep in mind what this means and what practice is, and in particular to remove possible assumptions that the relationship with the Ministry of European Integration and its establishment means a relationship to European integration. That's not true in any way. Namely, only that 76 practices fly into the region: Serbia has a Deputy Prime Minister in charge of European Integration and Association Office; Montenegro has the same; Macedonia has the same; Slovenia, me, in the status in which we were currently in charge of the Minister and Government's Office; Croatia has the situation, you know, joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and only Albania, which is about somewhere similar to the status we are according to European integrations, only Albania in the region in Southeast Europe and only Albania from countries covered by the stabilisation and association process has the Ministry. Why is this important to mention? It is important, I fully agree, that the number of money spent and the existence of the ministries is not a guarantee that a particular portfolio will be implemented, but the existence of a minister for a particular portfolio, for a particular area in a country, shows, firstly, the importance attached to the issue and secondly enables communication with and on issues from that area in the high political position of the minister. So, when it comes to the Ministry of Human Rights, it is our situation, e, when it comes to European integration, we have a Directorate for European Integration, which is an operational partner of the European Commission, and the chairman of the Council of Ministers is in charge of issues of European integration so that at the highest position in the Council of Ministers we have a member of the Council of Ministers for European Integration on Coordination. So, our model, our model, in other words, and from what the Directorate is doing and how the Directorate is doing, I think it's a good model, but I totally agree that, therefore, not accepting these principles, so, because I don't think it's a hit principle, that this should be a reason to think about how to get rid of obligations, let's say, introducing a agriculture ministry because it's an area that covers 40% of the EC issues and simply we without that ministry won't be able to make a crucial step towards European integration, it's similar with the Ministry of Science and Technology, so I think it's a reasonable story and it's reasonable to seek to open topics around the Council of Ministers, but the principles on which it's been done, I think, for sufficient reasons, that they're not good enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20077	I thank the honourable representative. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20078	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try not to go far from the agenda point, though I'll have to do a little bit. That part is actually going to be a replica, I'm going to connect the discussion and the replicas. I think there's been a complete mix of the thesis of those who are here and challenge these two laws, and I would even say that the Constitutional Commission was very unprincipled when it didn't accept the principles. I don't see what principles are not satisfied that here are the questions of human rights and refugees being treated and solved through this Directorate, not through the Ministry. I am not yet determined whether or not I am in favour, but I am just asking a question - What is unprincipled to make it so and what is unprincipled that instead of the Directorate for European Integration we have the Ministry of European Integration when we already have it? Part of my replica-related exposure could be in that sense, and it seems to me, that we almost have no right and, unfortunately, here in Parliament to talk about human rights. I'm not accusing at all of the minister who sits here, at least he's guilty. We encourage, achieve, sometimes human rights violations, or we don't respond, we give someone the right to violate human rights, I wouldn't be opening these questions very specifically right now. The issue of the Ministry's existence, I will now return to the scale of things, should not at all be put in the context of existence, or the struggle to return refugees, or indifferently looking at that thing. From these previous discussions, it turns out that Federation colleagues are fighting for the ministry because they care about refugee returns and RS vice versa. Please look at the facts and you'll see that things don't work out that way. I ask the question - does any of the Srbin have the right not to dramaticise the issue of the return of Srbin to the Federation? If these are the facts that were said yesterday and in the paper exactly by an official, a state official from the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, who said there were only 2% of Srbin in the Federation of BiH, there were almost 30% of them before the war in this area, that, for example, there were 160,000 Srbin living in Sarajevo before the war today. So, here's what's been said by an officer, a state official of the Department of Human Rights and Refugees. Yes, there are only two Srbin in the Federal Parliament's House of Representatives, etc. These are all arguments, alarming information that we say -- here, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees is needed to make it possible. But that's not the point. We must come from one fact that the appearance of MPs from the ministry, from the Party for BiH, is quite human. Because this initiative, I will not say that this is what counterpart Novaković said about the defence of the minister, but these initiatives are being launched either at the end of one term or at the beginning of one term. And I have to admit it's for me that this approach is human. So, I didn't say anything new, look at other countries and in our environment. Every new government is a change and a law on ministries. That's exactly why I answered. You know very well... that some of the provisions of the BiH Ministry Act were violated in the Council of Ministers of BiH when we introduced you, that is, when you are here in Parliament – I was then in the Council of Ministers – voted the Defence Act, which formed the Ministry of Defence. And that's when the ministry's relationship with three was broken. There is also a decision that said that in the next period, no later than the end of the term of office, the number of ministries will lead to this relationship being divisible by three, which means that it either decreases by one or increases by two, I do not re-determine what it is. We haven't fulfilled that obligation yet. And therefore, my proposal today is that, by following this initiative, these two laws, this issue is returned to the Council of Ministers, so that this is a good initiative for this approach and relationship and that the Council of Ministers is manifested not only on this proposal by fellow Živković but on the complete situation of the number of ministries in the Council of Ministers. That could really be discussed, but I'm not going to take your time right now and we seem to have wasted a lot of time on this issue, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20079	Replica, esteemed representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20080	Here, for the second time, of course in a different context, the party, the BiH Party MPs, allegedly defending their minister, has been mentioned. I want to deny such qualifications because if they stand, then this proposal, or these two proposals, should be interpreted as an attack against the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees. I'm asking you nicely, we used the arguments here, no one mentioned the minister, we used arguments that applied to one and the other matter that the bill proposed here regulates, and I'm asking you to keep discussion 78 out of that field where it doesn't belong. And the party's involvement in stories like this, I'm telling all those who don't know how to read the SBiH platform.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20081	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20082	So who's interested?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20083	It's next. Is there a need? There's no need for an esteemed representative. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative, Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20084	Chairman, I thank you. According to what the club chief said, I'm giving up the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20085	Thank you, too. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20086	Okay, I'm the only one that shows up within this point... on behalf of the SDP Club, so let's say a few words. In fact, the present part of this debate is, I think, a cataological example of how we're wasting our time in nothing. And on the other hand, even though this law, here, everyone said there was no way to pass, I congratulate the SNSD that he managed to animated so many MPs in this discussion and open this debate. In my opinion, it didn't take this much of an avalanche to argue, because everyone is aware and they pointed out that in their discussions, this law has no chance, theoretical chances of getting a passing majority, so that's where the question arises - What's the big debate about something everyone initially realized that there's no chance of going through? But let's put that aside now. Interestingly, for this bill, we do not have any position of the BiH Council of Ministers. Why? The other thing is, I think that this whole story, especially on this subject, should be further serious about the way MPs from the opposition suggest it, that's another thing; but when legislative projects are proposed in the order of those who make up the parliamentary majority, I think it would be good before it comes to Parliament to try to find some consensus within those who make up the parliamentary majority and without which nothing can be adopted. Then it has a serious note, so we can talk forever without any effect. We're only wasting time in that case. We here had the opportunity to see this opinion of the Constitutional Commission, it's interesting. I have to say it's, I don't know if it's the first time, but it's a really rare case that one legal proposal doesn't even have a single vote on that committee. They were all opposed to what was delivered to the Messengers. However, even though this law, here, everyone said there was no way to pass, I think the text of these two laws gives rise to several conclusions or 79 maybe indirect messages that I have to say that I agree with in some. And I'll tell you where I agree. When it comes to erasing and abolishing the Ministry of Human Rights itself against it, and the reason is really enough, I would only list a few. BiH is probably, not likely, but certainly a country in which the most terrible forms of human rights violations have been created in the last two decades. I must say that these human rights continue to be violated in different areas of society, as well as numerous reports and domestic and foreign agencies dealing with this problem. So I think this ministry should be strengthened and tried to make this ministry a more functional ministry. If, I stress this if, indirectly, this message of this bill that this ministry is not working, here in that case, I must say that I agree with my colleagues from the SNSD, because this ministry really doesn't work. I think there should always be a difference between what's called the needs of this country and what's concrete how it works. In this case, BiH has the need for one such ministry, but it is evident that this ministry is not working and that there is no replica whether or not it works, here I do not have to express my personal opinion, I would like to call this time for the opinion of NGOs, especially the Centre of Civil Initiatives, which is truly systematically and seriously monitoring the work of Parliament and Council of Ministers. I think they're useful both to Parliament and the Council of Ministers, so we'll see that this ministry didn't actually realize according to that last report just for the last year or 10%, 20% of what it was just planning, which is certainly not a good message. In that part, so, as one indirect message from this law that this doesn't work, that's where I have to say that I support it. The other thing I support in this legislative project is this ministry of European integration. I think the BiH Ministry needs it. I support that it is formed, I think it has its role and purpose, and I certainly don't think it should be done in a way to abolish the Ministry of Human Rights. This should probably be done in a different way so that BiH can enter this process of bringing BiH closer to the EU as effectively as possible. If the indirect message of this law is that we should seriously start to think about forming some new ministries that are now needed by the state on its way to the EU, and in this case we think that this should be done because, if we have a true commitment to speed up this process, we need not only this European Integration Ministry, we need the agriculture ministry first and foremost. We are not aware that 40% to 45% of the EU budget is related to agriculture, and that is certainly something that is the urgent need of our country. We also need a safe education ministry, sciences, perhaps a new economy and employment model in Ireland, which had an 18% unemployment rate in the 1980s, and in 2005, it had 4%. Why not use any experience and those countries where the effects really proved to be good? I must say, therefore, that it is clear that this will not pass, but a few messages from this, from these two proposals of the law that are deeply bound, should be drawn, it would be good. And it's my conclusion to this discussion and I would suggest one conclusion. "I propose to all political parties who make up the parliamentary majority in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives that on such serious issues try to return to what these six political parties signed two years ago when they educated this parliamentary majority." I remind you, one of the points is to bring constitutional solutions that will establish a functional and modern BiH, with European standards. So the whole story should go back to that point, to what the programme objectives of the current parliamentary majority are, and try really to come up with a solution that will really make BiH a functional and modern one. The formation of a ministry for 80 European integration is one part of the process to make this country modern and functional, but it is absolutely certain that this issue should not be resolved in a partial manner but rather adopted as planned: a whole project that BiH would make a functional state that would go to the EU much faster on what we will have tomorrow as well as a special plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20087	I thank you. The following has been reported to the esteemed representative Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20088	Here, thank you. So, some of us really rationally and patiently here we follow the debate and wait for everything, but as the debate takes on other connotations than those that were initiated by this bill, then man can't help but say a few things. First, I personally have no problem if Mr. Živković suggests this as a member of the College, as a representative, and we should not all have a problem that MPs propose laws, regardless of whether they are from a position, opposition. Enough complaints that we don't have an initiative, that we're inactive. I basically welcome every legislative initiative from every MP and every club. Secondly, I also have no personal problem, and I would like Mr. Živković to be there, that he explained on the Constitutional Commission, unfortunately he is not for legitimate reasons today, but that does not mean that the law should be postponed and not debated. Now the question is - if the Ministry is not effective - and I can't accept this story here because we haven't discussed whether it's effective or not!? And it's not on the agenda, and I'm not in the mood for the debate on the law to get through these issues and draw conclusions for the public and some political suggestions out of it. I'm not absolutely into it, not just because there's a minister who listens, but because I don't think it's effective, that's not why it's being abolished. But then other political measures are being taken in these situations. So here, that's why I called, that's the first thing. And the other thing, the lack of a certain kind of organisation and strategy doesn't mean that it has to be shaped. And now I'm going to be a little subjective. I was the first minister of this country for human rights and refugees before an international and wider project came into power in 2000 and in four months we made this ministry and all of these institutions: the Return Fund, the Commission, infrastructure, strategy and everything. After a half-year-long blockade of the Council of Ministers and after the fact that the then Council of Ministers had only three ministries and two co-chairs and kept the country in the status quo and blockades who are now. So what do we want now? Do we want to return things to those eight years earlier when we painfully unblocked things or do we want to look ahead? I'm seriously asking all of us. The other thing, the existential issue of this country is human rights and refugees. The meaning of this country's existence after catharsis and cataclysm that happened when over 50% of the people disappeared from their homes, went away. Well, gentlemen, let's imagine this story. And that story can't end in a year, two, dodging, and so it is, that's the whole point as long as 81 one person wants to go back anywhere, to the Federation; I agree with Mr. Dokić and this is not the Ministry of Return of Bošnjak and Hrvat to RS, but to return everyone and everywhere, and so it is set up. So it can't end the story. You know that things here are not simple, and when Article V of the Constitution said that the Presidency was given a mandate, the chairman of the Council, and the Council of Ministers, the chairman appointed ministers, they were only foreign ministers, foreign trade and civil affairs until today when we have ten. And, of course, here's the structure and some relationships, and that doesn't mean we have to stop at that, but we need a serious debate. What do we need so the state can go to Europe? And what should this country do not only to go to Europe but to start its own resources? Unfortunately, we don't start them and we should talk about it seriously. But the fact is that in 100 and a few countries in the world there are citizens of this country who are in refugee status. And that you can't draw a line overnight and say -- now it's enough, the return is over, these didn't want to come back, etc. So there's a lot of things about this question. You should kind of talk argumentarily, not put things back, look forward. Everyone has enough space, both entities and other political entities and parties to treat this quality, but this country, if it wants to ensure some kind of reconciliation and trust between each other, should not, overnight and across its knees, turn things back rather than look forward. Here, thank you, and that's why I was, for that reason, Mr. Dokić, not for the reasons of unpreciseness, but for the very reason of principle, I was against the principles of this law, and here I am obliged to say it, it's not against either... or against good intentions, but from fact. The Ministry? You know, it's not the same ministry and directorship, the ministry can be a legislator, it can make certain decisions and measures out of its own jurisdiction and past the Council of Ministers and past this home, and it needs to make as much as possible and to resolve open issues. The Directorate, unfortunately, cannot, has neither this status under the Constitution nor the law, so at this point, I think, that all arguments show that we will need much longer, I would like these circumstances to be acquired as soon as possible, not only for refugees but for the entire space of human rights in this country – a responsible ministry and responsible Council of Ministers. Thank you. NO ONE
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20089	"Thank you. The following has been reported by the esteemed representative, Remzija Kadrić, and I still have a registered representative, Jerko Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20090	I thank you, Chairman. I'll do it real quick. It was more, I used to appear, as some replica to the exhibition, the views of MP Novaković. So, I wanted... to say very briefly. While in RS he managed SDS all movements in RS, all things were, at that time, functioning with a great support of the SDS... one association that bears the name Stay. So, at that time, this association had full support in RS. I know, I'm sure this association doesn't have... some importance in the RS and it's had more support than many other associations and by the 82 campers and other associations. So this association was preventing, trying to sickle the return of Srbin to the Federation and the return of people to their hearths. I mean, in that part, I'm convinced that the SNSD doesn't, it doesn't, it has no such intention and they show it on more concrete things that they want everyone back on their own and that... in their political activities and show it. These grades, I'm really going to be the short, flat-rate Denis Bećirović's review of how this ministry doesn't work, they really don't deserve any comment. Therefore, his grades are arbitrary, casual, nothing... based. For these reasons, they deserve no value. I mean, so that's where things line up, the SDS stopped coming back, failed in such activities, the return is running. Srbin want to return to the Federation, Bošnjak and Hrvat in RS. Therefore, there is a justification that there is in the matter of refugees, this ministry and, of course, human rights will be things that we will continue to deal with. For that reason, I answered for the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20091	Dear Representative Bećirović: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20092	I wish Mr. Remzi could have said, "What's a flat-rate, specifically?" Since I was talking about concrete things and, among other things, I called on this report of the Centre of Civil Initiatives which had made one review of the work and MPs at all levels and the Council of Ministers and Ministers etc., gave some results and publicly published it and no one denied it, therefore, here I was, therefore, not expressing my personal opinion, I also said in the discussion that there would be no replication, but I called for one source specifically and for this analysis by the people of the Centre of Civil Initiatives. And your assessment that it's all going great in RS, etc. I must say that I am astounding in the light of what I heard a few days ago in an official statement from and the Office of the President of your party, Haris Silajdžić, who said the exact opposite of what you were now saying about the state of return, so it would be good to coordinate it a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20093	You're soaking again, Denise, but good. Novaković: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20094	Well, you see, I'll do it for a while. Mr. Kadrić, we didn't propose this law, we proposed SNSD. So, we're not legislators of a law that abolishes the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, so I don't think there was a need for you to mention us in this context. As far as the Stay Association is concerned, you know as well as I do that the right to return and the right to remain is equal to the aneks of the sporazum, so that people can give up whether they stay or return. And there was an association, and today there is one who wants to help those who want to stay, not to ban their return, but to help those who obviously want to stay, because nobody wants to help at this level either, and I have proposed amendments to the budget, either at this level or at any other level. So, no, it's not, at least, I don't know where you found the SDS in this story. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20095	Remzija Kadrić: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20096	The answer to Novaković...... to his reply to the replica is in the following. So that's what Jovičić was talking about when it came to the quest, people's wishes, some will, some won't come back, I'm talking about how the SDS prevented him from coming back. And so, he supported an association called the ostanak, and it never supported people... who wanted to come back, the Return Association, etc. So, the ostanak was then SDS policy and politics and now the SDS to keep people where they were. And when it comes to Denis Bećirović, he pronounced a flat rate just as he said the ministry of human rights is not working. And he mentioned that it was an evaluation of the Centre of Civil Initiatives without any concrete indicators, without any concept of a spoken word in which the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees does not function. There you go. That's your flat-rate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20097	It's just, I heard Denise, they've been there before. Jozo, what did you want?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20098	A regular.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20099	A regular? Before that we have a registered Ivanković, we have a regular Križanović and we have a replica of Denis Bećirović. Here you go, Denise.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20100	I keep trying to explain to Mr. Remzija some exact indicators, and he keeps talking about the flatulence grades. So one of the indicators, quite certainly, can be what is planned and what is realized, and there are some other indicators and if you haven't had the opportunity not only to see that report but the other is not the problem that it is here during the day if it is necessary and delivered. And unlike you, I wouldn't exactly agree with those grades where you're now talking about how there was a stay organization, etc. I don't think that's true, there may have been such an organization of Staying, but I think it's worse today that's formed, the one that keeps coming up not for staying, but for breaking up in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20101	Discussion, Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20102	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I would like to point out again that we seem to be doing a lot of form here, and in essence, we are wasting our time. Will it be the Ministry, will it be the Directorate? It's a very small difference, and basically 84 can do a lot of direction if there are conditions, and the ministry can do a little bit if there's no conditions. I admire the Minister if he's managed to bring anyone back to this situation. Because in a situation where research tells us that 50% of people would move out of the country now only if they could get a visa, but they couldn't get a visa, and then there's no way they could be new refugees. In the human rights situation, one of the basic human rights is the right to work, and our unemployment rate is 40%. So we didn't ensure that people could work and that they could live on it. We had a law that touched on economic issues that could partially resolve human rights and the return of refugees. When we get people a job in this country, then we get rid of one of their basic human rights. When we get back to those who want to secure a good job, I'm sure everyone will come back for that job, and if there's no job, if we build them a house like we do now, in a lot of cases, that house will either be a cottage or it will be sold, and that family will go to work. And there was fear of a debate about the "Law on Supporting Domestic Production". I don't see why fear, why, I'm not.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20103	I'm really asking you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20104	Thank you, Chairman. So why is it that fear of essentially solving a problem rather than form as this law suggests, because this form essentially brings nothing. Whether we pass this law or not, we don't really change anything. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20105	And I thank you. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was away but I followed most of the debate so I won't... I'll actually try not to repeat anything here that's already been said. First, I want to say that I do not ultimately question the good intentions of the legislator. For me, however, there remains a dilemma as to whether this reconstruction is trying to speed up BiH's integration process, but also to speed up and finalise this problem of returning refugees and displaced persons. You see, it's strange that a law like this suggests a fellow parliamentary majority, and we have no Council of Ministers' obvious on this one important issue. Look, it's not a small procedure, let me say, in the reconstruction of the form of government, is it? And it's strange, too, that we're just timing, I think, poorly read about this. You see, we have tomorrow a presentation of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement in which we expect, too, the Council of Ministers to tell and assess how much BiH is more ready with its institutions, prepared capacitatively and professionally and how you want this process of stabilisation and accession to go as well as possible. In this context, the Council of Ministers would be expected to propose, in this context, what these are, in the absence of capacities in existing ministries and in new, possibly, directorates, etc. And now to give importance to the integration process through the formation of the 85 new ministry, you see, it does not mean much in itself, because this process of integration, i.e. stabilisation and accession, BiH will not happen through one ministry, it will happen through a series, a series, institutions both in depth and in width. Therefore, I think both the timing and the concept and the reasoning are quite thin and insufficient for some concrete statement on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20107	I thank the honourable representative. The next is Honorable Representative Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20108	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, I suggest we speed up this part of the debauchery and put this point of human rights and refugees on the agenda and have the minister report on what they've done so far, not to be fooled if we're going to end it, we're not going to be dealing with commissions. We spend an hour in Parliament, and the money we provided has not yet entered the function of consumption. August is a vacation, September comes and most likely that these refugees waiting for their accommodation and who are promised in December will start thinking about it. Secondly, I would warn you already when we're doing it, so Annex VII really looks, and that's the way to the EU, so we see which people want to stay, who want to come back and what's the most important question that no one can start is just compensation. And that is the question that will be raised by thousands of people who will never return from the EU to this deserted island again. And they have reason not to come back. Instead of dealing with these issues, we are proposing to abolish the ministry, a few months ago we are voting on the means and ways to help these people. It really does seem a little confusing. And I would ask the minister to report with MPs from the parliamentary majority urgently to see what's going on with these funds and what they think means to end this process of refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20109	Thank you. Dear Representative Kalabić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20110	Well, it's not a replica, it's a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20111	Discussion, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20112	I thought I would suggest a conclusion, given that Serbian MP Remzija Kadrić said well a few things that I agree with. And they reflect the essence of things and relationships to 86 of this proposal. I think there have been a lot of discussions that suggest that this is a very correct proposal, meaning who needs to be seriously discussed, even though opinions are opposed, so I will ignore those discussions that have prompted some other things about this proposal. However, the fact that the first is that here the proposer is not present for health reasons, that he was not present at the session of the Constitutional Commission, that also the representative, justifiably, our party was not there, is looking in some way for a certain solution that, given that he also found it to be a very serious matter, that this thing, as some have suggested today, we do not break just over our knees. There's no rush here that we have to do this. Today, there have been suggestions that representatives of the international community on certain matters come forward. It would also be interesting here if the representatives of the international community would at least advise on what they think, given that this is waiting for us. Because I get the feeling that this is all supported only around the time we're different when and at what time this has to be done. And I think that gives enough seriousness to this thing. And therefore, the SNSD Parliament Club will propose a conclusion: 'To delay the statement of laws whose proposal is Milorad Živković to obtain an opinion, at least, of the Council of Ministers and that we have that opinion afterwards, so that we can define ourselves."
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20113	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Proposal for a decision to adopt BiH Transport Policy for the period 2008 to 2020 On 26 June 2008, the Council of Ministers sent Parliament a proposal for a decision from this point. On 24 July this year, the Constitutional Commission delivered an opinion establishing that there was a valid constitutional basis and that the proposal for a decision was in line with the BiH Constitution. The relevant Committee for Transport and Communications was scheduled to meet yesterday, however they had no quorum, so today's session was held. I hope you've received a report from the Committee... on the material from this point. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20115	Mr. Chairman, I suggest we postpone the debate. Since we do not have a minister here, given that our commission debated right before the start of this 87-session on this also without the minister's presence, and, let me remind you, it is the adoption of the Transport Policy for the period from 2008 to 2020, and I think that it would be really serious about this issue, and even at this stage on principles, I need an opening statement of the Minister so that I can take a full look at this issue. So, I'm making a proposal to postpone the debate and to hold a debate on principles only when the minister is present here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20116	Thank you. Dear Representative Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20117	Mr. Chairman, here I am, on behalf of the Transport and Communications Commission, to make a few points. First, here's to saying that I don't generally mind Mr. Novaković's proposal, although I think we can discuss this today. The ministry has a representative present, an assistant minister, so if there is a need, if MPs ask, he can explain the proposal. We had meetings of the Transport and Communications Commission yesterday and today. However, yesterday was not a full quorum, but we analyzed and discussed, there were two representatives of the Ministry, we continued with one representative of the Ministry this morning. So, from that point of view, the form was completely satisfied and I would say that the large majority of the Commission voted in favour of this opinion that we have delivered to you and, to be precise, only one was restrained. So no one did, no one was against these. If we're going to discuss this subject today, I would just briefly explain what the changes are... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? Yeah. In the Commission's opinion, there are also proposals for three changes which are more legal-technical in nature. We thought it was certain mistakes and that they should be corrected, so here's to not reading them, you'll see from here. So, here's only one member of the Commission has been abstaining from this proposal. There are still certain, I would say, language-terminological doubt and the conclusion was the Commission on which we did not vote, unfortunately, but it will now be my conclusion: 'To be in charge of the publication of the House of Representatives', is that it is called, I do not know, 'and the Ministry of Communications and Transport along with the Secretary of the Commission to lecture the text.' It is clearly not lectured, in a language and termological sense, so, for example, it stands in one place, you will see on page 7 of point 5 is “defined and differentiated competences at the state and entity level”. Here it should stand in the crowd of 'entity levels', or avoid levels, and stand to 'defined and distinguish state and entity competences.' So the text can be corrected in that sense, in a language sense. I have some other objections to the Ministry. I told them this morning that they had to take care of a better translation of this text. The original text is in English, apparently. I think the translation's pretty stiff. Here, for example. On page 12, it reads: “Family transport trucks, including remote connections, are currently used as the most tolerated type of traffic for goods of greater value.” This “greater value” knows what is, this is not adequate, it is about goods of great weight, etc. There's another place I don't want to say it again, there's more places to do that. There is one place that stands for "owning", so that it doesn't turn out that the BiH authorities are committed, this should stand for "authority". So these are really lecturing things that can be arranged. In several places the word “laborate ” is also used. For example. “Laborate master plan multimodal loops across the country.” Originally, linguistically, this is a correctly used foreign word, but in our language it is not used in this context. It's a much nicer word to make, which is quite clear to everyone. We know what we mean by elaborate. But if the proposer was holding on, when it comes to these cruel translations, if he was holding on to one of Duško Radović's aphorisms which says 'it's a translation as a lady, if it is beautiful is not faithful, if it is not beautiful', then I have no objection to the translation and as far as the Commission is concerned, I suggest that this policy be adopted. She's indicative. This policy follows an action plan and strategy that will be more concrete. This one's in sync. The Council of Ministers accepted, as far as I know, no objections to this text from either entity and, behold, it would be a good message that this policy was done through a single project and support from the European Commission. So she took part in this directly financing the development of this first document of three documents, the first policy, the next strategy, and the third action plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20119	Thank you. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20120	The chairman, let me at first ask my colleague Dokić that perhaps sometimes funny remarks etc., at least when it comes to ladies etc., mentions in another context or elsewhere, rather than during the debate on the BiH Transport Policy. Especially not as inappropriate as they were mentioned. I was only in favour of the proposal that, eventually, before the publication of this decision, the necessary adjustments were made – I wanted to draw attention to something that is not a matter of language nuances in BiH, nor are they synonyms. The proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Transport Policy stands in the agenda. In the opinion of this committee, the Constitutional Commission, the opinion is: The proposal for a decision on the adoption of transport policy. In the version of the Council of Ministers' decision itself, the proposal for a decision on the adoption of a transport policy stands. Since these are not language nuances, because traffic – traffic – transport, not synonym, I would suggest, I would like to note that I got all of this on, here, with the sign "b" of Bosniak variants: to perform the necessary alignments and recruits which, mentioned by my colleague Dokić, should be done before publication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20121	Thank you. Dear Representative Raguž, electronically, and it seems to me that Mr. Križanović has appeared as well. 89 So, the esteemed representative Raguž, and then, if he is Križanović, let him prepare himself, he will be.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20122	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Dokić said most of it already, I'll say it very briefly. So there are a lot of serious reasons to adopt this. Most importantly, the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank see this as one of the conditions for financing the infrastructure in BiH. Secondly, this is set out in the Council of Ministers' Work Plan and within those agencies, directorships, ministries, in a way, came out as a harmonised document, and now we can nuance and technicalise, but I don't think there's any valid reason not to adopt this BiH Transport Policy today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20123	Thank you. Dear Representative Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe it's a little late for me to say this. I actually wanted to support my colleague Novaković's proposal. Indeed, today, when it comes to a 12-year-old traffic policy, it would be our turn to have an introduction, because as counterpart Dokić explained, he was giving more arguments to bring this down today than to adopt. I think this really deserves a serious review of the Council of Ministers' representatives, or the Minister's, not only to fulfill the form but to let the Council of Ministers know that they are obliged to be present here when their proposals are found. It is not just because, I say, forms, but because in this contact between the Council of Ministers and Parliament there is a special cooperation, understanding and possibility of deepening and clarifying certain concepts and things. And that's why I'm here again, if the debate continues, I'll get back to you, but here I am now staying with this proposal from my colleague Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20125	I have to say, there are no more reports for the hearing, so I'm counting on the hearing to be closed. Here, there's a distinguished representative of Suljkanović still.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20126	I wouldn't want to repeat those things that the predecessors already brought out. I don't think there really is any fundamental reason why we wouldn't adopt this document today. On its importance, we are informed on the Commission by the Ministry's representative very comprehensively and in detail, and we have made efforts to present it to you today, bring it here and, not to waste your time, I believe that we should adopt this proposed document. 90 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20127	Thank you. Here I am, however, after insisting on the motion, I will have to, although I think the debate is already over, but here I have to respect the proposal from the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20128	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20129	Replica? Dear Representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20130	Well, I don't really see the point of putting you to the vote anymore, and you've opened the debate. I made the proposal before we open the debate. You have now opened the debate, completed the debate, and will now make a motion to vote not to open the debate, or to speak to the minister. Look, it doesn't make sense. But well, here, since I made the proposal, so, and I didn't... I didn't have the opportunity to discuss it, can I get the chance to participate in the debate then?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20131	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20132	Thank you very much, and I'll thank you very much. I'm going to read one principle and I'm wondering if that's what we really consider an acceptable principle. In fact, when the principle of planning and maintaining reconstruction and construction is at the disposal of the resources available, the most common principle is to give priority to the maintenance of existing transport infrastructure, which is particularly related to railway roads subsectors. Regular maintenance is also periodical, including the alimony of the lagging,...maintenance must be given a planial priority over reconstruction and new construction. In other words, so is that what we're planning, what we've been planning for the last months and months and years, building a new network of highways, modernising existing highways? It is obvious that the World Bank and others are not looking to finance these projects, but rather to cover holes in existing roads, changing existing roads, etc. Here I am, just taking this as an example that it was necessary here, if there is no minister, then the assistant minister to take the word and explain here and there are these dilemmas, and there are others, even in this document.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20133	Thank you. Does the assistant minister want it? Here you go. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20134	I'm the Assistant Minister of Legal Affairs, and I'm not an engineer, so I thought I'd talk about it a little bit more simply about the history of the creation of this document. The former minister, Dokić, who was strongly directed to this creation of this transport policy, said that it had started since 2006 because, unfortunately, in 2001 and 2002, when we had one transport policy made by a Džajka consultant, the document was not adopted. What were the reasons? It was probably political in nature before the lack of the document. Minister Dokić and Mr. Raguž mainly said what I intended to say about this, which is that this is one in a set of three documents, the other two in the works are the transport strategy from 2008 to 2015 and the action plan. This policy as well as any policy is quite principled, and these other two documents should and will be done in this sense, to be very detailed and, as it says at the very end here, will list concrete activities and programmes to be undertaken in terms of more concrete activities and plans on regulation and capacity building, investment programmes and so on. Someone from the debate said that we are quite unserious in our talks with the European and World Bank. When we talk about investments, a country that doesn't have this kind of basic document that speaks about the principles of constructing the reconstruction of transport infrastructure, and which later through the strategy, the action plan, elaborately elaborates, means it speaks quite unseriously of itself in the sense that we systematically approach all these very significant activities. That's a lot of distractions so far, but the document has been done pretty hard, but let me put it this way, studioically. He was made by a foreign consultant. That's why Minister Dokić said it was a translation. She worked as a foreign company SAFEZ, but the document is, in fact, quite narrowly through public debates, by sending an opinion to the entity, cantonal and other ministries and institutions, so he has seen a lot of significant changes in this source material, and we believe that he has improved quite well. He was also from a meeting of the Council of Ministers, I think, even twice returned to certain improvements, in order to make one document worthy of a state document, state policy. Is this document that's ideal for us now? Well, we already have some remarks on him, but there's been a proposal on how to get rid of them if, let's say, they're technical. This remark from Ambassador Novaković? I could only try to interpret it as far from the point of view of the lawyers as possible. I don't think any of these aspects will be ignored, they won't just be patched up to work at the same time, but at the same time, in fact, they're doing all these activities and I wouldn't say that what we're doing here is the opposite of what we're doing on the ground, that is. We're building a Corridor Vc and we're looking for investors for it. The Ministry and Council of Ministers are calling for the document to be adopted precisely for those reasons which are also debaters, and I have just said that this country needs the document in order to – adopting some reasonable time in a few months and two other documents, i.e. The strategy and action plan – a little more of the organisation's system in this matter has been created and we are where we are more efficient and rational in the further use of these funds, further development of transport and transport policy. These two documents, and during some time, 'The Law on the Public Paths of BiH', should indeed make the preconditions for the whole of BiH to go where and where faster than it is so far, and to reconstruct the existing and build new roads. I hope the document – if we have read it, and I believe we have all read it – justified these expectations. 92 I only had so much to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20135	I thank the assistant minister. Dear Representative Dokić
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20136	Mr. Chairman, I would like to comment on this statement by my colleague Križanović, but also Novaković. So, in my discussion, I mostly conveyed what we discussed on the Communication and Transport Commission. And I think it was also correct to do that, except for what it says here, to point out additional elements. I explicitly said that for this document, we need this document, that this document, this document, is wanted by international financial organisations when it comes to any kind of investment in their transport infrastructure in BiH and when it comes to credit funds, and we will especially need it tomorrow when we have certain donor funds, when we develop preconditions through this time of European integration that we can use such funds for this purpose. I say, the text can be relatively fast and easily fixed to be, as lawyers say, nomotechnically, neither do I, don't tie me to the word, be both correct and completely understandable and leave no doubt in the meaning of certain words. And what counterpart Novaković, come on, asked the question, I'm not going to say that the problem, this is completely correct, and it's in line with our policy, it's not just a request from international institutions. We must maintain existing paths. Without them, it can't function as a transport network, and nowhere is it said that it won't take care of new directions, highways, I wouldn't be able to keep your attention right now that I'm reading the certain things that are standing here, it's unfortunate to me, I'm not here on behalf of the Ministry to defend but, I say, it's explicitly standing here what needs to be done to create assumptions and conditions that we can build new highways or highways, that it should, for example. Point 20 on page 90, I'm explicitly talking about it, we're going to have to increase the detachment by the roads. I want to remind you that this level of separation in BiH is now less than 7% and that of e.g. Prices of fuel sold and 25% in BiH before the war. So, we're going to have to change our relationship if we want to have fast roads, highways, according to this issue, but this is an opportunity, here's to the second phase of the Law on Roads in BiH if it enters the second phase, to talk about both these things and the amendments that can already be on the agenda already at the next session. So, all in all, once again I want to point out that this document is acceptable, that it can be a good basis for the other two documents, that it is very clear and precise, very correct when it comes to European standards and competences. You see, there is talk here about authorities in BiH that are mandatory, and says the law should distinguish competences between state and entity. So from that point of view, the document is very correct. And speakingly, with this, if any of the ladies felt hurt by quoted aphorism, I apologize and understood the message, I'll take care of the future. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20137	I thank the honourable representative. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 16th point, Ad. 16. Decision on the participation of the BiH Armed Forces in the "Iraq Freedom" Peace Support Operation in Iraq for confirmation – applicant: BiH Presidency You've received a report from the relevant Defence and Security Committee. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20139	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, the BiH presidency's decision on the participation of the BiH Armed Forces unit in the peace support operation "Iraq Freedom" in Iraq certainly has several aspects. Among these aspects, at this point, the most important political aspect is certainly for us, and this aspect is certainly subordinated to all other aspects and all other interests. I do not dispute BiH's political interest in the participation of its Armed Forces in Operation "Iraqa Freedom", but I cannot accept that this interest is being explained to the MPs in this way and that in this way, the BiH Presidency is actually building up the decisions it has made. To that end, the Bureau also adopted an assessment of the justification that is filled with incorrect data, misjudges, demagogue claims and others. I think it was far more appropriate and fairer than this to say that BiH is a small country and on its way to Euro-Atlantic integration has an interest in political support for influential and powerful countries. I have other logic and justifications for this decision that the Presidency cannot find and it is unnecessary to plant this Parliament, not to make up other excuses. It is unnecessary for the foreign ministry to contribute that BiH's military presence in the UN-led peacekeeping operation is in line with the settings of the document Security Policy BiH, when they know that the "Iraq Freedom" operation is not being conducted under the mandate and flag of the UN. The real pearls are an assessment and argument of the justification given by the BiH Ministry or the BiH Security Minister. The security aspects of this ministry are tragic as if it were an assessment of the justification for going on a trip, not of going on a high-risk mission for the lives of the people involved in the operation. Please, is it embarrassing that our Ministry of Security of the Soldiers of BiH in this mission is assessed with a sentence, quote: "Concerned to the 'Iraq Freedom' mission, it is noted that there is no relevant information relating to the security situation in these missions". I cannot understand such an assessment differently than that someone is blind or irresponsible because we are witnessing that in Iraq, unfortunately, it is daily being killed and that it is not difficult to get concrete information about it. So, finally, in this decision, the BiH presidency clearly recognises BiH's political interest, but I do not accept that this interest is being explained to us naively and irresponsiblely. Here 94 must be clearly said that this mission in Iraq has its own political interest, but it certainly has its own risks. Those risks must be taken by those who make such a decision, and I do not accept that these risks are passed on to the MPs of this house in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20140	Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20141	Dear colleagues, and I'll be very brief. Namely, Article 4. The law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of BiH, police officers, civil servants and other employees in peace support operations and other activities abroad is a slightly longer name of the law, it means that before making a decision, the Presidency will obtain an assessment containing foreign policy, legal, security, defence and financial aspects. And that's what we've now got in this explanation. Unfortunately, I have to say, it's really amazing what the Ministry of Security wrote. Here, I'll read something else that says here. It is obvious that either the people did not understand, or the ministry, did not understand the law or they really mocked this law. Be careful, he says, "The participation of BiH Armed Forces in a new mission in Iraq will not cause more mass gatherings, disdain and public order violations and peace in BiH. According to the above, there is a low probability and possibility of a reaction of radical individuals and groups." And it is about the safety of soldiers in Iraq, not about security before they head to Iraq here in BiH. So, the objective of Article 4 of this law is to make an assessment of the safety of our soldiers there. No Niko argues that we have accepted international obligations, no one disputes the need to participate in what we have accepted. Of course, when I say no one, then I mean all these parliamentary groups or parties political or clubs. But please, the mission cannot be changed without really making a new security assessment. We had the first time we made a decision, when we talked about the Mine Demining Unit, or the mine deactivation, we had a clear assessment of our troops' security back then. She was supposed to be like that this time. Look, it's impossible to say that we can't do this, that we don't have relevant information to make that assessment. We had to make it. We had to say, it would be much more correct according to this document and to the sending of these people, that it was written that the operation was connected with certain risks, that in similar positions currently in Iraq from other countries so many soldiers, that, I don't know, there were so many and so many attacks on them, that there were no dead, there was, what percentage etc. I guess that's some security assessment of our people going there. Or we don't really care about them when we send them there. I don't think we care, but I think this is the kind of relationship we show as if we're not taking care of. And that's why I suggested, I don't know how urgent it is that this unit is actually going there, I'm not going to do it right now, but I suggested one conclusion to postpone a statement confirming the Presidency's decision on the participation of the Armed Forces units in BiH in the "Iraq Freedom" peace support operation in Iraq until the next session of the House of Representatives. In the meantime, the Ministry of Defence – so here I took the Ministry of Defence, since obviously the Ministry of Security did not want to deal seriously with this issue, and that the Ministry of Defence as the bearer of these activities can, of course, work with another ministry – prepare in accordance with Article 95. A law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, and now not to read the entire law further, an assessment of the level of security of members of the BiH Armed Forces in the operation. I think that would be correct and at least of us are expected to have that assessment and on the basis of that assessment we make a decision. None of us remembers that in any way accepted obligations challenge but allow us to have minimum seriousness to the lives of these people that we need today by raising our hands, by raising our hands by confirming the Presidency's decision. What, of course, is politics now, and I won't talk about it much, but it is very interesting that on the basis of one... such report by a BiH presidency member, in this case the chairman of the BiH Presidency, in one sentence, says: "The assessment of the justification of the participation of the BiH Armed Forces units is accepted." So I think we need a lot more seriousness when we send people on missions like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20142	That's what the Bureau says, the chairman signs. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20143	I'll do it very briefly. I'm just saying that every untruth can't last long, and that's how this part of the agenda testifies. The truth sometimes comes with delay, but eventually it surfaces. Just when it comes to this point of the agenda, I want to remind you of the following fact: one of the three main thesis, so the main thesis with which the Alliance for Change was torn down in 2001 in particular in 2002.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20144	Theme, theme, Bećiroviću, theme!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20145	Yeah, about Iraq.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20146	The theme's not about the subject. Go back to the topic.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20147	It was just the theme of Iraq.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20148	Go back to the subject. I'll take your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20149	Can I talk about sending soldiers to Iraq?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20150	You can, but go back to the subject. Of course about this decision. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20151	Yeah, and I'm making a parallel. I hope I haven't strayed nearly as far as Bahtić goes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20152	You've been wandering for years.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20153	What? I want to say next. Six years later, and I'm talking about sending soldiers to Iraq, someone was accused just because he was a traitor in the broad Bosniak layers of society that he allegedly sent soldiers to Iraq, which was incorrect. And today, here we are discussing the normal thing that Bosnian Herzegovic soldiers are going to Iraq. I just want to say that SDPBiH will not serve such untruths and such demagogy but will always behave responsibly, not as some did in 2002, on this particular subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20154	Shall we go on the subject now?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20155	I was talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20156	Already. Thank you. Are there any more reported? There isn't. Finalising debate on point 16. Moving to point 17. Ad. 17. Report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Single Parent Number Act You got the report. You could see that consent was reached. This time, for a wonderful miracle, our variant has been accepted. Therefore, this amendment that was adopted at the House of Peoples was not accepted. I'm opening a debate on the Joint Commission's report. Are there any reports? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on point 17. Moving to point 18. 97 Ad. 18. Information on the authorisations issued for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products for the year 2007
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20164	So now we're gonna take a break by 18.15, so 25 minutes that clubs can consult each other, and then at 18.15 in this Chamber II/2 extended college of the House, because there are certain initiatives, so let's try to agree in the College on how to work on all the points of the completion of the agenda. So, at 6:15 p.m., the extended college of the House. And we come here at 6:30. Thank you very much for your support. [[PAUZA]] Representatives, I ask you to concentrate on continuing the session. We move on to the process of declaring the points of the agenda that we have been working on today. At the stop we had before this extension, the Extended College of the House accepted the proposal to postpone the statement on points 19, 20, 21, and 22. I am obliged to put this proposal of the Extended College of the House on the other points on a plea before the declaration. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 26 votes "yes", four votes "against" and three "abstained", I find that this proposal by the enlarged College has been accepted. We move to a statement on the first item of the agenda: The adoption of the minutes of the 32nd session of the House of Representatives. Vote now. With 30 votes "for" and four "abstained" votes, I find that the 32nd session of the House of Representatives has been adopted. There's no vote on the second point. 100 We move to a statement on the third item of the agenda: Confirmation of the Council of Ministers' Decision on the appointment of the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 27 votes "yes", three "against", four" abstentions, I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives confirmed the Council of Ministers' decision to appoint a foreign trade minister and economic relations with BiH. We will immediately join in giving a solemn oath to the appointed minister. I ask you to read the text in front of you repeat after me the text of the solemn oath. - I swear.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20167	- that I will consciously behave my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20168	- that I will consciously behave my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20169	- respecting the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20170	- respecting the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20171	Mr. Minister, by the name of the House of Representatives, I congratulate you on your election and giving you a solemn statement. I wish you many successes in your work. [[APLAuz]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20173	Thank you. Here, just to take the opportunity to thank the representatives of this high house for their trust. I'm aware of the responsibility I'm taking. I am aware of the importance of the foreign trade ministry and economic relations on BiH's European path. As representatives of the legislative authority, I call for coordinated joint work, because it is the only way we can achieve envious successes. Thank you. [[APLAuz]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20174	Minister, stand here and let these congratulations pass faster. Here, I once again congratulate the appointed and confirmed minister, and we continue on the agenda. We move to a statement on the fourth item of the agenda: The request of the Constitutional Legal Commission to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Criminal Procedure of BiH under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. We're voting first on a request for an emergency procedure. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 14 votes "yes", one "against", eight "abstained", I find the request for an emergency procedure accepted. We're moving on to a statement on this law. Please prepare. Vote now! Nothing, we'll do it again. An apology. We repeat the vote means about this law; about the request, I'm sorry. Request of the Constitutional Legislative Commission to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on criminal proceedings under an urgent procedure. Stand by. Vote now on the request. 24 votes "yes", one "against", nine "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. There's no consent. The results of the merger, you will be notified. 102 We move to a statement on the fifth point: The request of representative Jerka Ivanković Lijanović to consider the proposal for a law on support for domestic production by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. We're voting on a request for an emergency procedure. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 20 votes "yes", 12 "against", one "abstained" – I find that most of the votes have accepted the request for a hasty procedure. We're moving on to a statement on this law. Please prepare to vote on this law. Vote now! With nine votes "yes", 25 "against", without "abstained", I find that the proposal for a law on support for domestic production by a hasty procedure is not accepted. We move to the sixth point: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of political parties. Before that, we'll vote on the amendments. I assume you have amendments. First, we are voting on amendments by the distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković. If necessary, I can read the amendments. There's no need. So we're voting on amandman I of Honored Representative Novaković. Vote now! With three votes "yes", 19 "against", 12 "abstained", I find that amandman I. is not accepted. We move on to the Declaration on amandman II.. Vote now! Two votes "yes", 18 "against", 14 "abstained" – I find that amandman II.. not accepted. We move to the Declaration on amandman III.. Vote now! Two votes "yes", 18 "against", 14 "abstained" – I find that amandman III.. not accepted. We move to a statement on the amendments of the SNSD Club. We're voting on amandman I.. glasovati now! Six votes "for", 21 "against", seven "abstained" – amandman I. was not accepted. 103 We vote on amandman II.. Vote now! Eight votes "yes", 19 "against", seven "abstained" - I realize that this amendment has not been accepted either. We move to a statement on the SDP Club's amendments. We're voting on amandman I.. glasovati now! Six votes "for", 25 "against", one "abstained" – amandman I. is not accepted. We are voting on amandman II.. Vote now! Six votes "for", 24 "against", four "abstained" – amandman II.. not accepted. We vote on amandman III.. Vote now! Seven votes "for", 23 "against", four "abstained" – amandman III.. not accepted. We are voting on amandman iv.e. Vote now! 13 votes "for", 18 "against", three "abstained" – amandman iv.e. not accepted. We move on to a statement on this law in the second reading. Vote now! 21 votes "yes", four "against", nine "abstained"; an insufficient entity majority! It's impossible to agree. You will be informed of the result of the alignment. We move to the seventh point: Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of BiH – Proposer: Representative Adem Huskić (second reading). We don't have any amendments in the plenary phase. Stand by. Vote now! 32 votes "yes", without the vote "against", "abstained" one -- I find the bill accepted. We move to a statement on the eighth point: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the BiH Administration (second reading), Law No 01-02-9-47-1/07 of 12.9.2007; we vote on this law in the second reading. Vote now! 104 With one vote "for", 26 "against", six "abstained", I find that the bill is not accepted. We move to the ninth point: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, with the Report of the Joint Defence and Security Committee,... Law No 01-02-06-58/07 of 17.9.2007. We're voting on the Committee's report. If the report is adopted, the bill is not adopted, or this law has fallen. Vote now! With 25 votes "yes", one "against", five "abstained", I find that the Commission's report has been accepted and this law has not been adopted. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: Proposal for a law on control of the movement of arms and military equipment, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee. We're voting on the opinion of the Committee that's negative. If opinions are adopted, the bill has fallen. If no opinion is adopted, the Committee shall set new guidelines and deadlines for the submission of a new report. Please prepare. Vote now! With one vote "yes", 31 "against", two "abstained", I find that the opinion of the Committee is not accepted and that this law is returned with the opinion of the Committee to draw up a new opinion on the bill. We move to 11th point: Proposal for a law on border control, with the opinion of the Defence and Security Committee. We are voting again on the Commission's negative opinion and the same procedure as with the previous law. Vote now! Without the vote "yes", "against" 31, three "abstained" - I find that the opinion of the Committee is not accepted, thus returning to the Commission and setting out new guidelines for the delivery of a new report. We move on to the declaration of point 12. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act of BiH (first reading). The vote. Stand by. Now! With 32 votes "yes", without "against", one "abstained", I find that this law was adopted in the first reading. 105 And through the debate came the proposal of the distinguished representative Jovičić to hold the vote immediately in the second reading. So I suggest: first, we vote on second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20175	He's pulling.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20176	Representative Jovičić?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20177	You don't have to explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20178	Very short. I've been checking in our professional services, unfortunately, the House of Peoples wasn't planning a session. This law will be passed, nothing is disputed. But what we're about to adopt today, they're not going to have a session and we're going to fail again, an idea. So let me make it easy for you, too, if there's a problem with the procedure, I don't want to disturb it. That's why I'm withdrawing the motion to plead immediately.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20179	Thank you. Let's move on. We move to a statement on the 13th item of the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer Milorad Živković, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. What? So, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission which is negative, that means if we accept the Constitutional Commission Report, this law has fallen, and if we don't accept it, we return the Opinion and this law to the Constitutional Commission with new guidelines.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20180	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20181	If there's an explanation, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20182	There are two conclusions that might get us out of this situation today. These two conclusions are in the sense that a statement should be postponed, that it should return to the Council of Ministers to make its statement on the matter and, since it is one of my conclusions, I will withdraw mine in favour of the conclusion of the SNSD Assembly Club and I think it would thus create something new...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-29-0.u20183	I would like to thank the honourable representative for withdrawing the proposal for a conclusion. 106 But we have a proposal for a conclusion of the SNSD Club relating to both points, and 13 and 14, which reads as follows: 'A statement on the laws whose proposal is Milorad Živković until the Council of Ministers' opinion is obtained.' I am making this proposal a statement. Vote now! With 12 votes "yes", 20 "against", two "abstained", I find that this proposal is not accepted. And we're moving on to point 13. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Milorad Živković. We plead on the opinion of the Constitutional Commission which is negative. Stand by. Vote now! With 25 votes "yes", six "against", three "abstained", I find that the opinion of the Commission has been adopted and that this law has fallen. Let me see, excuse me. I thought this was a lot of "yes," so I didn't count on it not to have an entity majority. Excuse me. So we don't have the entity majority. This law goes to the College for compliance. We move to a statement on the 14th point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Milorad Živković, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. Same procedure as the previous point. Vote now! With 23 votes "yes", six "against", five "abstained", not enough entity majority, I find that we did not bring... on this agenda point and that there will be an agreement in the College. We move to a statement on the 15th item of the agenda: The proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Transport Policy for BiH for the period 2008 to 2020. We are voting on the proposal for a decision, with the opinion of the Committee, which contains legal and technical repairs in the Decision, as well as the conclusion proposed by MP Dokić. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 10721 votes "yes", one "against", 11 "abstained", with an insufficient entity majority, have not reached a decision on the 15th item of the agenda. There's an agreement in college. We move to a statement on 16th point: a decision on the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces troops in the peace support operation "Iraq Freedom" in Iraq for confirmation – applicant: BiH Presidency. We have a proposal for the conclusion of the esteemed representative Momčilo Novaković, who reads: 'A statement on the confirmation of the Presidency's decision on the participation of the Armed Forces in the "Iraq Freedom" peace operation in Iraq is postponed until the next session of the House of Representatives. In the meantime, the Ministry of Defence will prepare, in accordance with Article 4. The law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, an assessment of the level of security of members of the BiH Armed Forces in the operation." We are voting on the proposal for a conclusion. Vote now! Four votes "yes", 23 "against", six "abstained" -- this conclusion did not get the required majority. We're moving on to a declaration of confirmation of the decision. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 30 votes "yes", four "abstained" votes, I find that the House of Representatives has decided to confirm the decision to participate in the BiH Armed Forces' "Iraq Freedom" peace-support operation in Iraq. We move to a statement on the 17th point of the agenda: Report of the Joint Commission on the text of the Single Parent Number Act. We're voting on the consent report. Vote now! With the 31st vote "yes", without the vote "against", three "abstained" votes, I agree that the Joint Commission's report on the alignment of the text of the Single Parent Number Act has been accepted. We move to 18th point: Information on the authorisations issued for the transport of weapons, military equipment and dual-use products for 2007. I remind you, we're receiving information. Prepare to vote! Vote now! 28 votes "yes", without the vote "against", five "abstained", with a sufficient entity majority – I agree that we have received information on the authorisations issued for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products for 2007. 108 We move to the declaration of point 23. Granting approval for ratification: (a) Credit agreement between BiH and OPEC Fund for International Development – Srbac, c) Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development – Road Infrastructure and Security Project, d) Credit Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Raiffeisen Zentralbank Austrian Stock Society – Modernisation of the University of Zenica. I suggest that all four of these subpoints be declared in the package. I'm making this proposal for a plea. Vote now! With 31 votes "yes", one "no", two "abstained", I find that we have accepted the proposal. We move to a statement of consent for ratification of the contract and agreement from a) to d) which I read earlier. Vote now! 31 votes "yes", one "against", two "abstained" – I conclude that the House of Representatives has given consent to ratifying the agreements I have read from a) to d). So we exhausted the points of today's agenda. Short notes only. I want to remind you, although I know you all know that tomorrow at 11.00 a.m., we have a joint session of both homes, and here today I will immediately inform you that the next session of the House of Representatives will be scheduled for 3.9 this year. Thank you very much. I'm closing the 33rd session. Session completed at 7:30.
