ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19289	... MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 32nd session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. As usual, our regular guests, presidents and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations, who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs, were invited to attend the meeting. Representatives of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH and the Official Journal of BiH were also invited to attend the session to discuss their reports. I welcome all present representatives and all present guests. I also welcome media representatives. According to the service's information, I'd like to conclude that there are 34 representatives present at the session. The absence, according to the service records, was justified by the esteemed second vice-president, Dr. Milorad Živković, while we do not have any other written justifications or oral ones. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Dear ladies and gentlemen, before we move to the debate on the agenda proposal, I would like to remind you that we have provided you with an overview of the parliamentary issues raised from the beginning of this term to the 31st session of the House, which is not answered until 25 June 2008. We delivered this review by realising the request of MP Denis Bećirović at the last session. However, in this proposal on page 17, in the context of outstanding questions with the 23rd session, there is also a mistake in the initiative of Mr Bećirović regarding the Council of Ministers' task, I quote: to also submit to the Parliamentary Assembly the text of the Law prohibiting all non-fascist organisations and the use of their symbols, including the ban on Ustasha and Chetnik organisations, as well as those which rely on the tradition of the Handar Division. So, I quoted a part of the Initiative. Namely, at the 28th session of the initiative of MP Becirovic was included in the agenda and following the debate, the following content was adopted: The BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with preparing the Law on the Prohibition of All Non-Fashist Organisations and the Use of Their Signs. By adopting this conclusion, we believe that the initiative of MP Bećirović was realised at the 23rd session. So much for reviewing unsolicited parliamentary issues. We are now going to discuss the agenda proposal. And this time, compared to the draft agenda you received in the invitation to the session, we have additions. In the agenda, along with the 2 consent and the Extended College of the House, we included materials that met the business conditions for discussion, which are: - Proposed law on public funds (first reading), - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Value Added Tax, with Opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget - Proposer: Representative Momčilo Novaković, - Report on the Work and Financial Business of the Public Business of the Press-Publishing Organisation "Official Journal of BiH" for 2007, - Proposal for the conclusion of the Rifat on the Dolić and submission of the Information of the Council of Ministers on State and State Property, Company and Citizens of BiH in the countries resulting break-up of the former SFRY, with a plan for activities on its protection and takeover by legal owners, - the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Norway on the financing of the construction of the Assembly of BiH. In the order of the earlier proposed agenda, there is one change, and that is that point 3 is now 19. It refers, meaning to the request of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs to discuss the proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the establishment of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat following a hasty procedure. So much for supplementing and modifying the agenda proposed in the call for a session. You have received materials on time for points that are included in the agenda. On the bench you received a consolidated proposal of the updated agenda. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19290	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues.../disturbation with the microphone/...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19291	Five minutes break until the technique is ready. [[PAUZA]] ...the information that is now with the technique everything is fine and the word has a distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19293	Since we are... on the agenda where we are yet to determine the agenda, I have two interventions regarding the agenda of today's session. 3 The first concerns the following and can also be one question: Why today, on the agenda of the House of Representatives, there are no agenda points that would be called the Plan for the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement for BiH? I would like to remind you that this is the obligation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in particular the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which adopted a resolution more than six months ago on the acceleration of BiH's EU accession process. So one of the points of that resolution and the conclusions of this Parliament is that this will come to the agenda so, moreover, it should have come to the agenda before signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but it is not, and it is even worse that here are several weeks and months after the signing of the Agreement, it is still not on the agenda, and I think it is essential that all the countries that have seriously entered the European integration process have one such plan. So I'm asking that question to the College, since that's already...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19294	Dear colleague, I'm just asking you, so... after we set up the agenda, you'll have parliamentary questions, so you're entitled to whatever kind of question you want. At this point, we are discussing a draft agenda. If you have a suggestion to remove a point, say and explain, and if you have a suggestion to include a point, say and explain. Leave the parliamentary questions for the agenda item that is called.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19295	Okay. Mr. Chairman, I have tried to illustrate this in a milder version, but I can also do it in a different form. So you, as chairman, are obliged to implement the decisions of the House of Representatives and I ask that what we have already concluded today be finally on the agenda, and you are obliged to implement what we have already voted on. So much for this first proposal. My second intervention on the agenda of today's session is this declaration proposed by the SDS today in the agenda of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives and I propose either that the SDS withdraw it or that the vote be made to remove this from the agenda today. It needs to be removed for a number of reasons. The first thing is political, I would say, hypocritical and comes from the proposings, so from the party, I'm not talking about people, who absolutely don't have moral or human credibility to talk about any crimes and this thesis, I hope, that I won't have to continue to absorb and explain why I'm saying it. Number two, I think she's a human disgrace to be on the agenda today, two days before the Srebrenica genocide. And I think this is an attempt by a political party to wash its conscience and run from the truth and try, here in these very two days, to time it now. I'm surprised that in the College, too, it was agreed to put this issue on the agenda today, and in two days, so we mark the anniversary of Europe's largest genocide since '45. Of course, the reason why this should be taken off the agenda is also the fact that it is completely unobstructed, incomplete and that it selectively refers to the last century, the 20th century, and not to say that there are a lot of those who say that it is also geographically missing, since it treats countries of Eastern and Central Europe. I really think that today this should be taken off the agenda, because 4 I think this declaration is completely against the views of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts and its main theorists who declare BiH an artificial creation, which ZAVNOBiH, which has restored BiH's statehood, also deny, and today, through the SDS, they want to bring one resolution that will say that the communists were criminals in these areas, not unlike the situation in BiH and Yugoslavia from those countries of the Soviet bloc with which the former state was '48. Breaked up, but it's a special story. Of course, all that I'm saying, I have to say that I speak with one very mild terminology in relation to what was heard and what will be heard from dozens of non-governmental anti-fascist organisations from all over BiH. I must say that I have no personal problem condemning any crime, no matter who did it or when, but it should not be done selectively, and it should not be done with a goal that has entirely other intentions, but those that are declared here. So I really suggest, I don't even want to report to the agenda anymore, to take this off the agenda, because two days before the Srebrenica genocide is marked that the SDS is proposing any declaration, any crimes, is indeed political, mildly said, inappropriate. So my proposal is either to withdraw, if they won't withdraw, for Parliament to take this off the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19296	You mean, just to be precise, unlike you, I have to be precise, do you mean the point of the 22nd Honorable Representative, the Proposer of Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19298	Because we don't have SDS as...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19299	And he's an SDS MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19300	Okay, but we have his proposal, okay. Dear Representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19301	The esteemed chairman, the esteemed members of the Council of Ministers, dear colleagues, only when I prescribed this resolution that was adopted at the European Parliament, did I not know that this would produce such insinuations and feelings in the SDP. You see, dear young fellow, you don't know that time. And that's your '48 intersection. The year is... one of the greatest crimes of the communist regime and is not the only one. That he's the only one, where I'm lucky. So I did not propose any resolution, as could be heard these days and how it was all described but a resolution adopted by the European Parliament. I don't see why 5 connect one document to all this stuff that colleagues talk about? The resolution was proposed by me, so the MP in this House, Momčilo Novaković, and I must say that this is my personal attitude towards communism, which therefore coincides with the position of the Parliamentary Assembly of Europe, the Council of Europe. Of course he's different from yours, because you inherit and the consequences, especially the materials of the consequences of communism, and it's obvious that you accept these others as yours now. I'm not going to talk about the resolution, the resolution has passed the procedure, so who goes by it, it's a mandatory item of the agenda, and it can't be downloaded. I just got up to say no to any of the events that my colleague was talking about, because she had nothing to do with it. And as for the SDS and its moral rights and everything else, it is defined by the laws of this country. We have paid a high price as a party: many events for which we bear and do not bear responsibility in previous times. Of course I don't want to believe that you have anything to do with the price we paid or that you could influence her to be like this or less. I'm convinced you can't affect any price now. So, I am here an MP elected by the will of the Serb people to the RS, from the SDS list, and, like it or not, you will have to put up with me, at least this by the end of the term. And whether you like it or not, this isn't the last resolution I'm going to propose in this House, believe me. And I'm not going to comment on all the nasty things you've been talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19302	Before I give you my word, just to say, it means that we will not be able to plead on this proposal because it is a mandatory item of the agenda, in accordance with Article 45, whose exemption from the agenda is not permitted. And now here you are, for the line, a debate? Dear Representative Bećirović, replica. The first one came forward, then the Honorable representative Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19303	Did I get my word?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19304	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19305	Thank you. If Mr. Novaković prescribed it, I really do not dispute it, it is evident that he was cheating and did not think very much about what was happening in certain parts of Europe. And that's the only thing the two of us can agree on. Everything else, we don't agree at all. First, when Mr. Novaković copied this text, he had to know or should have known that the Europe that brought this declaration, or resolution that Mr. Novaković prescribed, had systemically resolved some things in a very different way than BiH. This Europe has gone through a denaciation process, which BiH has not been through, so I think it even started the process. And that's two completely different things. I know that neither SDS nor SANA in Belgrade are the problem of communists. What communists, the problem is BiH's statehood, the problem is 6 ZAVNOBiH, and today this resolution should help clean up with ZAVNOBiH's fluids and towards the end, towards destroying BiH's statehood. I don't think I'm going to pay much attention to what the people of the SDS are saying, their attitudes are very well known to me, as this country is. But everyone else is on a big test today. In this country, there was no price paid by the SDS. In this country, the highest price was paid by BiH citizens, victims of SDS politics and others. Mr. Novaković was expected by the state to first propose a resolution that would be fenced against genocide in Srebrenica, which would be condemned by Radovan Karadžić, etc. Well, then, perhaps, come to this question. Not to mention that such a selective approach can be made to such serious issues, so forget about the fact that this BiH Parliament has not yet adopted a bill that has been here in Parliament for years, which prohibits the denial of genocide. The parliament has not yet condemned the Chetnik or Ustasha movement in this country, which has created genocide in World War II. This Parliament has yet to bring any...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19306	Time's up, time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19307	I mean.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19308	You're completely out of line.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19309	They didn't pass. So all the convictions of genocide of all totalitarian regimes but the problem is...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19310	Sir, Your Honor, you are abused by the Parliamentary Assembly's pay phone and speaking beyond the time you are allowed to speak. You speak outside the agenda, you speak outside the replica, you teach the entire Parliament here. I'm asking you to refrain. You're replicating the entire Parliament. So, I beg you, you do not have.../speaks in favour of the chairman and Bećirović/ The word has a distinguished representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19312	Mr. Chairman, thank you for giving me your word. You've helped me now with this intervention of yours. I wanted to attack you first, and then say what I wanted to say, but it's easy to attack you, I understand that. I know it's worth a lot... a folk proverb, which says, "Every unspeakable gold is worth it, and maybe I'd better stick to it too." However, here she... overstepped. This story of Mr. Denis is completely out of the context of what I need to discuss seven. This is a discussion of this agenda point. And that discussion, we're going to say in advance, I'm not going to support this resolution, but not for the reasons that Denis was talking about, but for other reasons, and I'm going to discuss it. This is really about things that have nothing to do with this. Dispute one party who has been elected to this Parliament, as well as all others, speaks of the fact that there are parties here who tend to establish the inequality and inequality of MPs sitting in these benches, on the one hand. On the other hand, bringing this into connection with, here, events that will be in two days and that happened so many years ago in two days, bringing it into contact with SANU, it is indeed, not to use the right words, without comment. And it's not about anything else, it's about one ordinary policy where the first hour of the assembly session is abused, when the media are present, to send some message, a very ugly message, that we understand each other. I expected the party, which advocates this kind of story, to act at peace, even when it comes to, here's the resolution. And I can understand that they don't accept it but from a completely different point of view than it was presented here. So, in the end, I'm gonna finish, and it might be better if I didn't answer. Mr. Chairman, it is my suggestion that, if you cannot secure the transfer of a full session of the House of Representatives, that you thank BHTV1 not to transmit these first hours, because we are wasting it in vain, where individual MPs and individual parties abuse it, imposing for that hour some attitudes that are completely outside...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19313	And your time is up. Thank you. Dear Representative Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, my intervention is more of a business nature. You said it was impossible to take this agenda off because it was mandatory under the Rules of Procedure. The motion for a resolution is referred to in Article 148 which refers only to a resolution. Therefore, it is not a mandatory item of the agenda and then it is possible by a decision or by a proposing or by Parliament to be removed from the agenda. I just wanted to explain this finding of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19315	This item of the agenda has passed the full procedure and has become a mandatory item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19316	No microphone 8 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19317	That's right, just about the agenda. And I ask you all together to suggest, if you have, new agenda points and to propose, if you have, proposals to take off optional agenda points. I've got Secretary Dom's interpretation that it's a mandatory agenda item. Are there other proposals for changes and additions to the agenda? Honorable representative of the Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19318	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would ask, just for consistency, that it is true, that the Secretary of the House, if you think it is necessary for the Secretary of the House to say, to explain to us on the basis of which basis the Rules of Procedure must be based, so that the House cannot, when determining the agenda, make a statement on the proposal for a download. We don't mind. Our position is perfectly clear, Mr. Chairman. I don't want to talk about content. The explanation of why we want to take the agenda off is because we think that... because of the time we're in, it's not even polite to talk about this today. The more we call upon those countries, the more they first condemned, the more the Council of Europe first condemned what this parliament failed to condemn. The next thing, Mr. Chairman, since the facts are incorrect here,... as soon as they cease to be facts, it is the prescribed Council of Europe resolution that is not correct, it is not prescribed. She's, they say, modified, because a promoter like others needs to know that here for self-respect, self-esteem. We're not arguing. We, I repeat, are here in Parliament a legal and political follower of the Alliance of Communists BiH. Nothing's disputed. And we are ready to talk, in every way possible, about what was going on in this country. But, Mr. Chairman, small children know, and especially Western Europe, that this Council of Europe resolution refers to communist regimes that ruled in Central and Eastern Europe in the last century. Allow that BiH was not in the category of countries in communist Central and Eastern Europe in the last century. BiH was part of Yugoslavia and it was neither there nor here. And where was she?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19319	I just thought you wouldn't discuss the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19320	So, I just want to tell you, Mr. Chairman, I would ask you not to have to...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19321	You'll get the answer. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19322	...so I repeat one more argument to make of this, because of these few arguments that are so obvious, that this point is removed. And Mr. Bećirović, as the order says, first asked Mr. Novaković to take this off today. He did not appreciate it, there are no problems, let Parliament just plead on the SDP MPs' proposal, if you want Denis Bećirović to remove this. And by the way, as far as I know, I don't know what you're excited about, this isn't being transmitted. Just because you see a camera somewhere next to a stand doesn't mean you're home on TV.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19323	Thank you, dear colleague Lagumdžija. The word has a respected representative, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19324	Well, you see, I'm in no position to, even if I wanted to, take down this resolution today, to withdraw, I'm in no position to do business because it's not mine anymore because it's past the commission stage. So this is the Commission resolution that supported it. So, business is not possible for me to do it, even if I did, although of course I wouldn't take it off because I don't bring it into context at all with the events that my colleagues are talking about and this attempt to force me to withdraw, just because they bring it into that context, is unacceptable and incorrect to me. So he's not.../at the same time speaking and chairing.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19325	I thank.../speak at the same time as Mr. Novaković. I will quote the provisions of Article 64(2), the mandatory point is the one that has passed the procedure, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This is so clear this item that he doesn't need any comment. Any other suggestions? Dear Representative Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19326	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, Mr. Ministers and Guests, I have an objection to you, in fact to the College, if possible... in the next determination of amendments and additions to the agenda... to make sure that a smaller number of new points are included. Namely, five, namely four new points and one item in the agenda were included in this agenda. That to me, and I suppose to other respected colleagues, creates problems for preparation for active participation in the session. In fact, it is two laws, one report and one conclusion and one international agreement. If possible, or if you make such a decision that the College is sitting at least two days before the session so that we may be informed in time. Thank you. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19327	Thank you. This agenda has been established by the extended House College... and we have had the same dilemmas, but we have nevertheless chosen to go with a proposal for such a agenda so as not to make it impossible for MPs to discuss all the points of the agenda that have met the business conditions for discussion. Honorable representative of Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19328	Mr. Chairman, I don't want us to open up here about the Rules of Procedure right now. At the very least, you are an interpreter, in the end, the Rules of Procedure and your will will be respected, I just want to be correct to say that what counterpart Novaković said is largely beyond Parliament's rules of conduct. You are well aware that the points have been removed, the materials withdrawn after the debates have been held, before the vote. So you can pull the material. But no problem, he won't back down, and it's okay, just so they say, we know each other perfectly here what's going on. You have a political majority, you have a political will, you have maybe a mathematical majority, no problem, you will vote it, but, as they say, there's no reason for us to explain to each other what we all know isn't true.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19329	Thank you. I don't have anyone else registered. Since we do not have any concrete proposal for a proposal to amend and supplement the agenda, I would like to conclude that the 32nd session of the House of Representatives has the following 1. Approval of the minutes of the 31st session of the House of Representatives; 2. Agents' questions and answers; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties – MPs Šefik Džaferović, Niko Lozančić and Milorad Živković (second reading); 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Domestic Production within the CEFTA Agreement – Proposer of Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović (second reading); 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Administrative Disputes (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Features of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer Beriz Belkić (first reading); 8. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on bottled drinking waters of BiH (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Public Roads (first reading); 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, with Opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget – Proposer Momčilo Novaković; 11.11. Report by the Joint Committee on the text of the Law on the Fiscal Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 12. Annual Information and Security Policy Platform – applicant for the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency; 13. Annual report by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2007; 14. Report on the work and financial operations of the Public Business News-Publishing Organisation "The Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina" for 2007; 15. Appointing the Ombudsman to the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposed list of the Ad hoc committee for the appointment of the Ombudsman in the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution); 16. Proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Transport and Communications of the House of Representatives in the context of the debate on the point Business of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public TV Service and measures to overcome the situation of established audit reports on the financial operation of the BiH Public TV Service for 2005 and 2006; 17. Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach an agreement on Sadik Ahmetović's proposal for the conclusion of the 31st session of the House (about calling the meeting of the Council of Ministers of BiH to discuss the requirements of decertified police officers); 18. Selection of members of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, in accordance with Article 8. Law on the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council; 19. Request of the Joint Committee for Administrative Affairs to consider the Proposal for a Decision on amendments to the Decision establishing the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure; 20. Changes in the membership of the House's committees, joint committees of both homes and delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers Clubs of Representatives; 21. Appointment of three members to the Joint Committee of both homes in order to bring the text of the Single Parent Number Act into line; 22. Proposal for a resolution on the condemnation of the communist regimes – Proponent Momčilo Novaković; 23. Proposal for the conclusion of a representative of Rifet Dolić on the development and submission of the Council of Ministers' information on state and status of state, business and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets in the countries caused by the collapse of the former SFRY, with a plan of activity on its protection and takeover by legal owners; 24. Giving consent to ratification (a) the Financial Cooperation Programme between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Ministry of Industry, Tourism and Trade of the Kingdom of Spain, (b) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Macedonia on Cooperation in the Protection of Natural and Other Traditions, (c) the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Canada – the Canadian Project in Primary Health Protection in the Balkans, (e) the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Norway on the financing of reconstruction and restoration of the façade of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly building. 12 We move to the first point of the established agenda Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 31st session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19333	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I have a comment on what I have received – I will briefly – review... parliamentary questions, where I have not received an answer to 11 of my asked parliamentary questions. In my view, very important issues are all about the economy... the increase in income and those decisions that have damaged BiH's reputation abroad, such as the supply of the Algerian group, the sale of gold, the assets of the Communist Union, etc. I think that's the key questions. Don't, colleague Lagumdžija, wave your head, it's not my fault that you're the lead actor in my affairs. When you did that, you didn't ask me. That's what these total questions mean. I have a comment on this answer – thank you, because it should be persistent – I have twice asked the question about the kidnapping of the property of the Alliance of Communists by the SDP. The first time I got an undefined answer. The second time I set up the same office of justice again, and they have now forwarded it to the BiH Law Department. And I got an answer that decidently says: With insight into the ZK – this and that – and the entry in public books results in that SDP is not... property rights, nor is it owned by the property concerned because it is not registered in public books. So the SDP is not, it says well, and with that 13 in relation, given the provisions of the Agreement on the matters of succession which... we believe that the property is entered into the ZK stake – that is, it is the property of BiH. Therefore, I call on the Council of Ministers to make urgent approaches to the implementation of this Parliament's decision on the census and the law on the confiscation of illegally acquired property that BiH citizens have all created, and now the fruits enjoy the association of citizens, a few individuals. I understand, you said, with legal... you didn't, politically did, ideology... So this is my question to the Council of Ministers here: "What is waiting, illegally taking huge funds, having black funds, funding all living things, and that's the property of all citizens?" You can see how Croatia, Slovenia, all countries solved, why we are here not to solve it! That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19334	Thank you. Any more comments on the answers received?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19335	I do.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19336	Dear First Vice-President Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19337	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I cannot say that I am dissatisfied with the answer, but I am dissatisfied with what the Council of Ministers says in response, so by conduct or procedure. The Council of Ministers, by its decision, exempts Republika Srpska from the obligation to issue bonds, by its decision. So, in my opinion, the Council of Ministers had no right, by its decision, to make an exception to the application, or to the Republic of Serbia, by explaining that it is awaiting the Constitutional Court's decision to assess the constitutionality of the RS, the law should be applied without waiting for that decision. And I think the Council of Ministers made a mistake here. I'll see... how I'll proceed.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19338	Thank you. Any more comments on the answers received? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] A comment? Are there any comments? _________(?) 14 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19341	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have received an answer to one, I appreciate an important question for this country. It's a question... of the implementation and implementation of these laws in the area of higher education and to say immediately that the answer, here which has arrived, is one very extensive and concrete answer. I'm thanking you... The Ministry of Civil Affairs, which made up one of these answers, and I think this should be an example... of how to answer parliamentary questions. This is actually one broad information... on this topic. But regardless of what I am satisfied with – the answer describes... the situation in this area as it is – I have to say that I am not satisfied with the situation and I think that you from the College should consider,... now it is up to you to launch an initiative, I am just putting this as an idea: that at one of the meetings of the House of Representatives you should consider,... now it is up to you to launch a single initiative, because we are having obligations concerning the Bologna process. This material can serve as one solid... basis for it, of course it can be done. I thank the motionors once again... The Ministry of Civil Affairs is making this kind of response. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19342	Thank you. Dear Representative Okolić has come to comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19343	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, representatives and other members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of NGOs, means of information, the international community, dear guests, I wanted to say, but here, when they gave the word already to comment on a question that I did not get an answer to and to ask it again, i.e. to potentify it because it is a burning nature. If that's possible now, and if I keep going, I can see that there's no more answers to this, to the winnings. Namely, I asked the parliamentary question: What is to be done on the temporary solution to the reduction of traffic congestion on the main road of Zenica – Sarajevo, Sarajevo – Tuzla, especially from Vogoscan to Stupa? And that's not what I got the answer to. Since this issue is really pushing and that we are all witnesses here coming from that direction and entering Sarajevo from the north that sometimes it takes more than two hours to enter Sarajevo, we cannot be satisfied with the answer that there is a detour around the city of Sarajevo and that it will be completed by some in 2010 or 2011, and that there are certain problems. I asked a decadent question: What is meant to be done on a temporary solution to the reduction of traffic congestion and time 15 provided for in the crossing of that road? And I think of the following: there are certain places where it is possible to expand August, or traffic lanes, there are certain places where they have allowed the parking of motor vehicles of all categories that cause trouble in that traffic. The lack or almost nothing, but mostly a lack of traffic police that should help solve this traffic jam is all that causes time to stay on that stock more than from Modriča or Prnjavor to Vogo-Christian loop and I think that the question should be answered: 'What is to be done temporarily until the loop is finished?' I repeat my parliamentary question in earlier form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19344	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19345	Here, I must say, express my dissatisfaction and even disappointment with the content of the answer. So the question is, what will BHT1 do to improve the quality of the signal and the coverage by signalling one part of BiH, what is its legal obligation? It is specifically about Herzegovina and Western Bosnia. In response, they say they will work in accordance with their capabilities, which means aroundly they will do nothing, because they can't do anything, because their financial situation is so bad, etc. I think they should have answered differently, and that's that they're doing all they can to, I don't know, and I don't know, finance work to put exactly the work on the transmission network, etc. However, it seems to me that they only answered so much that here are the answers to the question. And I'll do it again. Very tight on this is also the question of paying a TV fee. So it is again expected that citizens... pay a fee for a service they cannot consume. So then he teaches me fine, the one who wrote the answer, that the TV tax is paid on the possession of TV receivers. Very interesting, and they do not mention their obligation, nor do they say that they will eventually resolve their legal obligation to fix that signal! So, here's what I don't know... is what I'd say except that it's still irresponsible under my law of established obligation. And I call on the people of this service to be more responsible in fulfilling their laws of envisaged obligations and to really make sure that their obligation is and that they need to cover the entire area of BiH with their own quality signal. And just... a little extra. FTV has a pretty good signal in that area, I don't know how they don't use their experience or maybe their transmitters, etc. Very interesting!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19346	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19347	I know, there's a colleague named Zorić, and he's saying it's from Biokov. Yes, it is. Why don't you put your BHT1 transmitters on Biokovo? If FTV can do it, why can't BHT1? And I'll figure out what I think. I don't think there's any will to solve it, and that's the biggest problem. Nor do they take what at least 16 can... solve. Of course they don't have any money, they're in deep space, etc. But if they do this and treat all their other obligations as to this obligation, then they will be in an even worse position. And that's why I think it's time to really be more responsible and to do what can be done and to fix the condition that can be fixed. We don't expect ideally, but it's not like there's anything that can be done.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19348	I thank the esteemed representative Jukić. I don't have any more reports to comment on any answers received. Let's take the order. I'll read what order I have here. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić, Denis Bećirović, Husein Nanić, Šemso Mehmedović, Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19349	The Honorable chairman, respected members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of NGOs, of course and the media, guests from international organisations, ladies and gentlemen MPs, so from the second session, I have been asking constant questions about the national representation of three constituent peoples in BiH institutions. True, some of them gave me answers that I was happy with, some of which I didn't get anything from, but even if I did, I'm now asking a concrete question. When will this decision on the constitutionality of the people and equal representation be respected? In this term, the next term, in a hundred years, never to give up that story. If this parliament and BiH institutions cannot implement this decision on the representation and equality of three constituent nations and others, of course, what are we looking for and what are we talking about? I'm not here to make a cleanup of people who are represented by a percentage that doesn't match. But when will solutions be sought? Of course I'm happy, too, with the other part of the letter because the Council of Ministers has gone into a decisive fight with the clearing up there about the spending of those funds from various commissions, phones, cars, everything I've been looking for, and I'm going to ask again. Because the audit report showed that nothing was done. And of course, I'm asking a second parliamentary question. I don't really know who to place it to, but to this parliament and this state and institutions: When will the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Sarajevo start returning? Of course, it applies to the whole of BiH, and in Sarajevo the building of the Faculty of Education is now owned by the Faculty of Economics; the Interreligious Council that advocates tolerance, co-existence, understanding, respect and, I don't know everything, is one of the very important associations that helps to come here to what kind of trust, not reconciliation, because reconciliation is an individual act. When these assets will begin to return, because it is widely known that both the Catholic Church and the Islamic Community have been returned, can more the Serbian Orthodox Church and its believers suffer insults and anthem from this country. I think this is Canton of Sarajevo, and they're asking, "When will that work out?" In this term, in the next term, in a hundred years, never or ever?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19350	I thank the honourable representative. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19351	I have two questions, and unlike those MPs who see essential problems and essential topics in the period of '45. '90s. I think the essential topics are BiH's path to the EU. Therefore, my first question is: The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or the House of Representatives, adopted this resolution and I will not explain what I was saying in the agenda. Point 3 of the resolution obliged the BiH Council of Ministers to, quote: immediately approach the clear definition of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement implementation plan. If these conclusions of the House of Representatives had been realized, that is, that is, that is, the Council of Ministers did the right thing, we would have already had it on the agenda today and probably before. How does this not come to this moment on the agenda and, in my opinion, unwarranted reasons, because there are no more questions in this country than this, I ask the Council of Ministers: Why did you not submit a plan for the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for consideration? And I remind you that this conclusion is contained in point 3. And the second question, given that the chairman of the House of Representatives has instructed me to ask it in the context of parliamentary questions, here I will use it in such a way as to ask the chairman and the College of the House of Representatives: Why do they not implement the point of this resolution? And I would like to remind you that this resolution is also published in "The Official Messenger of BiH". Among other things, point 9 states: every six months, at least once every six months, we are considering a Council of Ministers report, a report by both permanent and joint committees on the course, results and future activities in the EU membership process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19352	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19353	I thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, members of the Council of Ministers, guests, I would like to ask the MP's question today to the Minister of Finance and Treasury. At the last 31st session of the House of Representatives under point 16. We agreed on three credit agreements between BiH and BAWAG Bank in Austria for the purchase of medical equipment for three health institutions totaling about 9m euros. These agreements came under a Financial Co-operation Agreement between the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Austria, signed in March 2006. Not wanting in any way to challenge the need to support these agreements, which I have also proven by voting for it, they are my reason to ask the finance minister, or the finance ministry and the vault the following question: 18 Is there in BiH a single register of all loans to which the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has given its consent? And, if there is, I'd like a list of them delivered to me. And, on the basis of which criteria and procedures are being put in motion to obtain favourable loans, who decides and sets priorities, because the fact that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has so far agreed on many credit agreements, and that these criteria are not explained and that the procedures for the choice of credit have not been clarified in the best way. As an MP from Electoral Unit One, I noticed, here in the current term, that so far no credit has been granted for the Unsko-San and Lebanon Canton, and I appreciate that it is necessary and that equal regional development must be taken into account. It is also a fact that when we talk about this segment of the need to support certain regions that the Cantonal Hospital and the University of Bihać have the worst equipment and working conditions, and that the Cantonal Hospital is located away from clinical centres in Tuzla, Sarajevo and Mostar, and I am not sure that any other institution can take precedence over these two if there are criteria developed in the competent institution. I note that these three are mentioned... 150km away from each other, and that Canton Bihać, the Cantonal Hospital Bihać, is over 400km away from the clinical centres that provide... health services and citizens from Unsko-San canton. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19354	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Šemso Mehmedović. _________(?) (indistinct) Šemsudin, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19356	Gentlemen, the chairman, colleagues and fellow representatives, distinguished guests, I have a brief question which, I may say freely, is on the occasion of the 130th anniversary of the Berlin Congress. In four days, it's 130 years from the Berlin Congress where borders and Balkan states are defined. So my question is to the Council of Ministers and the State Commission for Borders: What will the Council of Ministers and the State Commission for Borders do to return BiH to the sea country of Sutorina 75 km2 with two catastrian municipalities of Sutorin and Krusevic, 7 km long bh. the coasts which are without contract, when applying the demarcation Regulation between the federal republics (BiH, Montenegro, Croatia and Serbia), illegally incorporated, i.e. The Federal Republic of Montenegro should therefore be considered an integral part of the state of BiH on the basis of the above facts, given the inviolability of the avionic borders? And will the House of Representatives and the Council of Ministers and the State Commission, in this respect, come within their competence to resolve this issue in the same way as other current territorial divisions that are led between the former republics after the display of the SFRY? 19 I have a broad explanation here, but I'm not going to read it, but I would only say in the end that, based on the February '45 AVNOJ decision. With international representatives and the National Committee present as a provisional government, BiH has been decided to be limited by the borders according to decisions adopted at the Berlin Congress in 1878. AVNOJ's decision is sufficient legal basis to raise the Sutorina issue as an inalienable part of the Bosnian territory, which by no contract nor by an international act has been questioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19357	Ambassador Lazar Prodanović. I'm asking the club chiefs to call their deputies to the O.R. because there's too many MPs out there.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19358	Dear Mr. Vice President, fellow MPs, honored guests, I have two questions. One is... the question we agreed yesterday at a meeting of the Parliamentary Group on Population and Development, and the other I will ask as an MP in this House. Since the chairman of the Parliamentary Group for Population and Development is absent, I will, on behalf of him and my esteemed colleagues who are members of this group, and on the occasion of the World Population Day, which is 11.7., yesterday we had an important meeting, on which we have again updated the issue and agreed to refer to Parliament a parliamentary question to the Council of Ministers, which refers to: When will the Council of Ministers consider and refer to the parliamentary procedure of the Cairo Resolution, so the Cairo document on population and development? (and this significant international conference, which was held... in September 1994, is known that the BiH Parliament has never ratified it and we believe it is of special importance to BiH). In fact, when we talk about the World Population Day, for BiH, it is an alarming fact that BiH is back for a number of years, unfortunately, has a very low natural age rate that is slightly higher than zero, for last year it was only 0.4%... In that sense, I believe that Parliament would have to ratify this document and afterwards the Council of Ministers and all levels of government in BiH, in accordance with this international document, would have to make an adequate plan of action in order not to face the much worse consequences that await us in the coming period, unless we follow... this issue..., that is, adopted... this Cairo resolution. But normally, BiH has not been in a situation to attend, but not to ratify this document, but there is no justification for these 13 years, which is why it has not been put into parliamentary procedure. That's my first question, I said, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group for Population and Development, and on the occasion of World Population Day. The second question, I would like to refer to the Council of Ministers, and... it reads: I demand from the Council of Ministers that I be provided with a list of institutions whose founder is BiH,... in which the mandate in the management structures expired, whether... direct managers or boards of directors? 20 Namely, the reason for my question... is the information I possess that there are some... institutions whose founder of BiH has expired for several years or several years as appointed direct managers or boards of directors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19359	Ambassador Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19360	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19361	Rifat, one moment only, please, Rifat, just one moment. Dear Members, here I welcome you on behalf of the President of Parliament... The Republic of Albania to Mrs Jozefina topasti and her associates. [[APLAuz]] Welcome. We will, of course, continue to work. Here you go, Mr. Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19363	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues and distinguished guests, I have one parliamentary initiative and one parliamentary question for the day. The initiative is the BiH Council of Ministers for the Making of a Strategy for the Protection of Economy and Citizens of BiH from the uncontrolled rise in prices caused by consumption growth and energy prices on the world market. I don't think it is necessary to explain the urgent initiative of this strategy, and BiH's minimal impact on this global process is not an excuse for BiH and its authorities to be indolent against the consequences that an uncontrollably rising price is daily caused by the economy and the citizens of BiH. The economy and citizens of BiH are currently more vulnerable to this phenomenon than all the countries in Europe because of the limited use of both monetary and fiscal mechanisms for amortising it. Businesses are already getting into a state of uncertainty. Citizens, especially those at the poverty line, are additionally burdened with social uncertainty, while hands rub those who are far beyond the reach of inspection services and who are ready for profit-making on extraordinary occasions. I think a strategy like this made by competent people with designed measures, if nothing else, would help you bh. In time, the economy builds a defence mechanism against the consequences of this global problem, and that authorities at all levels on time take action to protect those categories of citizens most affected. My parliamentary question has been addressed to the Minister of Finance and Treasury of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and it says: How is the financing and control of religious community financing regulated in BiH? 21 It is a public secret that, with all respect to the autonomy of religious communities, the issue of their funding and funding control is unwarranted beyond the framework of the law and that numerous abuses and malfeasances with the money of the believers are hidden behind the independence and autonomy of the religious communities, and more often with taxpayers' money, of course in part... which is allocated to religious communities from budget funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19364	Ambassador Remzi Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19365	I thank you, Deputy Chairman. I have one question that reads: Starting from the finding of the Peace Implementation Council's Steering Board in BiH on 25 June 2008, which, among other things, states: 'the state and entity authorities have been unable to reach an agreement on the first objective for four years, i.e. on the availability of state property, which required the High Representative to extend once more the ban on the availability of state property' (closed quote), and which was made by the decision of the High Representative for BiH, the amendments and additions to the Law on the temporary ban on the availability of state property in BiH, as well as the decision on amendments and additions to the Law on the temporary prohibition of the availability of both entities and Brcko District of BiH since 25 June 2008, ask the Council of Ministers to... provide me with complete information on this issue,... and whether there have been any cases of violations of the provisions of the laws mentioned and in which cases and for what reasons it was to exempt certain state property from the ban of temporary availability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19366	Ambassador Snježana Rajilić. Absent. Ambassador Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19367	Thank you. My question is again, for the second time, about selling gold, a little bit modified. As the Council of Ministers appears here; I have set up the Algerian Group twice – it is launched; I am twice the property of the Alliance of Communists – it is launched; let's see now around the gold and, the chairman, this is directly for you. I ask the Council of Ministers to answer my next question about the sale of monetary gold by MP Zlatko Lagumdžija, at the time of the alliance, to sell and damaged the state budget for huge funds. ( a) I would like to be answered whether there is a decision by the Council of Ministers or Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the sale of monetary gold, which our ancestors have been painfully collecting and guarding for centuries... the Bank? There's no example in the world that a country did something like that? 22 (b) What is the selling price of state gold, and what was the world market price during that period, because, according to my reliable information, gold was sold at a much lower price than market price, and after that harmful sale, the BiH state lost 12 million dollars a day for the sale of that gold? ( c) What led the Council of Ministers to release the reserves of monetary gold during this period, and in what way was the money spent? d) Is it true that from the sale price of gold state and entity peaks they have pledged to devote at least 10% of the sales funds to development and to use for financing... resources,... and for education in the field of information technologies in order to open up room for Lagumdžija to himself and his friends to collect fees. Even so, at such a much lower price, a 10% law has been passed to launder money, people. And I ask for an answer because, in my knowledge, there is no decision by the Council of Ministers or Parliament's decision, and the state is damaged by hundreds of millions of marks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19368	poslanik Todorović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19369	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Question: When can EU pre-accession funds be expected to finance agriculture and rural development? I'm referring the question to the Council of Ministers. I'm looking for an answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19370	Ambassador Mehmed Suljkanović, Adem Huskić. I'm sorry, I got the information that it's Suljkanović, and it's Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19371	Thank you. I have one question that is actually a question, and it can also be considered as some kind of initiative addressed to the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Civil Affairs, as regards the implementation of the Sport Act. Here, the very important question is, I pray you don't feel like a criticism that can, possibly,... get such connotations, really isn't. So I highly appreciate the work of Minister Nović, but I want to know how far this has taken place? Namely, the Sport Act was passed at the end of February and published in the Official Journal in early April. In Chapter 2. The law speaks of BiH's interests and goals in sports. Thus, Article 8 speaks about the establishment of a strategy for sport and development, and Article 9 speaks about the content of this strategy. Article 10 provides for the strategy and the work programme to be adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the 23rd proposal of the Council of Ministers. Members of 67th and 68th talk about the relief for sports organisations, relating to the relief for investors of sports development funds. All of this, in my opinion, involves a long-term job in implementing this law so that it has its full meaning. The latest events in football, or in the Football Federation, say we need to implement the law as quickly as possible, especially with regard to ownership relations in clubs. The question, therefore, for the Ministry of Civil Affairs, is: Did the Ministry take action towards the implementation of the Law, i.e. in the making of sublegal acts? If so, as far as it came in that sense and, if it wasn't, then I urge the Ministry to start doing this job as soon as possible, how would this social activity be better defined and placed on healthy feet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19372	Thank you. I see here the Minister of RES, if he's ready to respond right now, okay, if not, he can do it in writing. Here,... let's use it to be practical. Here you go, Mr. Nović, I'm sure you can answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19373	The Honorable Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, only very briefly. When it comes to the Sport Act, you have seen in transitional and final provisions that are time for the adoption of appropriate sublegal acts. This ministry has, in good time, formed a committee of experts, to say experts, who are currently working on all sublegal acts, and I expect that during the summer, to say summer months, sometime by September, almost all sublegal acts will be done, which will allow, of course, the rest of this law to be implemented in that direction. As regards the Anti-doping Control Agency, the necessary measures have already been taken: a decision has been taken by the Council of Ministers on the start of work of this agency, a competition has been opened for the director of this agency and other measures have been taken on the accommodation of this agency in Tuzla, so as to the Ministry we are trying really to follow this area within our jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19374	Thank you, Mr. Nović. I hope you, Mr. MP, are satisfied with the answer. We will, we can certainly see it as an incentive to do this kind of activity. So, I've only got the application, for the parliamentary question, Mrs. Snježana Rajilić, but she's not here right now. I'm exhausted. I apologize to Mr. Zorić. So, Mr. Zorić. Here you go. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19375	I welcome all present. I have one question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19376	Has anyone else been, please, reported not to read it. It's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19377	I have one question, i.e. an initiative under the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, emigration, refugees, asylum and ethics. The government of the Federation of BiH has, in effect, adopted a regulation under which medal holders Zlatni Ljiljan Trolist and commanders can go to a certain level into early and privileged retirement. As far as this decision is concerned, there is nothing questionable in terms of who and under what conditions can exercise that right. It's a slow hand. Namely, that deadline expired because it was a limited time of application. I believe that acquired rights cannot be taken away and I want the above-mentioned committee to examine that decision, or regulation, and to answer me, do human rights be violated by those who have acquired those conditions and have not applied at the given time? That right should be permanent, and it's the right thing to do for whoever acquired it when and if they're going to consume it at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19378	Here, in this way, we have exhausted the list of persons registered for parliamentary matters. Mrs. Rajilić will have to do it another time. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. It's about "Ad." 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties – Proposers: Representatives Šefik Džaferović, Niko Lozančić and Milorad Živković (second reading) At the 29th session of the House of Representatives, this legislative proposal was adopted in the first reading. The competent... The Finance Commission and the Budget submitted a report 20.6. The committee also supported the text of the proposed law, amendments and additions to this law, and we did not receive amendments in the plenary phase. Mr. Džaferović, please, I hope you will go with this initiative that we discussed yesterday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19380	I'm not familiar with that initiative. I'd like to hear... 25
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19381	We – to remind you... I missed to say, of course, Mr. Križanović, very gladly – so we discussed a situation that happened about the amendments Mr. Križanović had made, but he addressed, so to speak, to the College and we, at the Expansive College, assessed, if of course the House of Representatives agreed, to allow,... the update of these amendments, because they were given within time, but at the wrong address. Perhaps they should have been forwarded to the competent commission, and that is how we should return, postpone, return this report to the Commission and open up the possibility for Mr Križanović, as well as Mr Novaković, who was not invited to the session by the Commission. I thought... it was important to say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19382	Thank you. Anyway, you helped me. So, in that case, fellow, there's no need for me to say anything... here, but here, when I got up, since it's an important law, to say just a few... note. First, only three people appear here as formal promoters, the chairman and vice-president of the Interresor Working Group. This is the third law made by the Interresor Working Group established by the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, following the Election Law and the Law on Conflict, Amendment of the Election Law, Amendment and addition of the Law on Conflict of Interest already adopted in this House, so we also have this third law. Since I, from your clarification, Mr. Chairman, understand that practically the commission phase is not finished, because the amendments that arrived on time have not been included in the error, but have not arrived at the right address, then we will have the opportunity to talk about the content at one of the next sessions, until, of course, the financial and budget committee tells us what it thinks about it. But here, in the end, is just one sentence. And for this law, as well as for the previous two, it is considered to represent one or two steps ahead of the existing state, improving the text, leaving some of the controversial moments that appeared in practice, and I think it allows for a better regulation of this matter compared to the existing law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19383	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović, you've also helped me. So, if we understand each other well, when we get to the voting stage, then we will go with the proposal that supported the extended college: that the report should be returned to the Commission in order to allow the examination of Mr Križanović's amendments, which, due to technical circumstances, remained untreated and allowed to be called to the Commission's meeting. Here, this way, if there are no more reports, I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. I'm going to the fourth point. It's about: 26 Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH (second reading) For the sake of reminders, we adopted this law at the 30th session in our first reading. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered Report 27. The bill is supported, adopted in the proposed text. There have been no amendments in front of the Commission, and there are no amendments in the plenary phase either. At the time of the adoption of the bill, on Mr Živković's proposal, we then adopted a conclusion that reads: The BiH Ministry of Justice is in charge of reviewing all decisions so far on the registration of associations and foundations in the BiH registry and aligning them with this law, which in some ways means. But here, anyway, I'm opening a debate on the Law of Associations and Foundations. So it's about the second reading. We don't have any amendments. Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19385	So, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the Constitutional Commission has supported this law unanimously;... we are aware that it is about amendments and additions to this law. We're proposing to the House to adopt. It represents some improvement compared to the existing text. But what I, in my name, want to say is that this is an area that requires constant monitoring and this is only a suggestion, it does not have to be voted on by the competent ministry to look at, therefore,... the overall situation in this area, to monitor this situation and that this is going to Parliament, with possible changes and other types that could not be taken into account now, given the methodology of the uniform rules being drawn up here in Parliament and the law that adopts Parliament when it comes to the effect of amendments to the law that represents amendments and amendments to the law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19386	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. Are there any more reported for discussion? If there isn't, I'm closing the debate on item four. We're going to the fifth point. It's about "Ad." 5. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Domestic Production under the CEFTA Agreement (second reading) The promoter is Mr. Jerko Ivanković. It's about a second reading. In our first reading, we adopted the law at the 29th session. The competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs submitted reports to us in the third month of 2008. There were no amendments to the plenary phase. I note that this law is supported by the Commission by a majority of votes. When adopting this law in the first reading, let me remind you, we, at the proposal of the SDA Members' Club, adopted conclusion 27 of the following content: that it is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers of BiH to draw up an analysis of the impact of the application of the CEFTA Agreement and an opinion on the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Domestic Production under the CEFTA Agreement. We also tasked the BiH Foreign Chamber of Commerce with delivering data on BiH's foreign trade balance, with a special reference to trends following the entry into force of the CEFTA Agreement. The deadline for the delivery of analysis and data was 30 days. We, here today, have some agreements, here we have today's opinion of the Resolute Ministry and I hope that all of you have come to this. We also received a request from the promoters to deliver to the MPs, so to speak, expert judicial expertise related to the compliance or non-compliance of this law with the CEFTA Agreement, or whether it corresponds to... the spirit or content of CEFTA. Of course, the promoter demanded that the processor, or author of that analysis, be present here. We didn't define ourselves at the College, we didn't think it was necessary, that it was enough to deliver that material. We also had a request from the Agricultural Association... to attend today's session, but this... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19390	The ministry's position, which is unequivocal, is that what is being asked of counterpart Lijanović is a clear violation of the CEFTA Agreement. We had a similar attitude from this directorate agency. On the other hand,... we have warnings from farmers that they remain completely unprotected by two farms from the east and from the west where the money is pumped, which are strong, which will simply wipe them out in the next period. We haven't had a real reaction yet by the Council of Ministers, we haven't had the right measures to be convinced that I can give them such a chance to defend what's coming now. The SDA believes that we should give ourselves five or six months of time and the Council of Ministers and see what happens to the foreign trade balance of BiH, given the application of CEFTA, but also to the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement... where we will have the full introduction of reduced customs duties, the release from customs duties of goods coming from Europe etc. 28 So the SDA Club will give three conclusions. The first conclusion is: 'to postpone the statement on what has been proposed today by the end of the year', and then 'to task the Council of Ministers and the competent ministry to prepare a comprehensive analysis of the application of the CEFTA and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the external trade balance of BiH.' And three: 'that the Council of Ministers is tasked with preparing by the end of the year any amendments and additions to the legislation and sublegal acts that would make it easier for economic operators to make it easier in the new circumstances, bh. economic operators, with a special emphasis on agricultural producers.’ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19391	Thank you, Mr. Izetbegović. Of course, I ask you to deliver it in writing before the vote, with the fact that, here, I am giving you the information that practically that one conclusion has already been adopted here before, when it comes to the effects of CEFTA etc. And that we've been getting some data, but here, I don't mind freshening it up and repeating it. Here you go. Mr. Bešlagić. Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19392	Dear colleagues, respected colleagues, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, I must say that the debate on CEFTA and the debate on the effects for the protection of domestic production today after the signing of the Association Agreement for me is a question... which I cannot give an answer to. That must be answered, I would say, by means of an analysis of the regulations and requirements of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, by analysis of CEFTA and analysis of our existing laws, they could say what should be done. Today, here we all got on the bench Decision on measures to protect domestic production from excessive imports, which has been advertised in the Official Messenger since 2004, 2002, we had the fact that our Ministry of Foreign Trade and... made a certain step in this regard which, here all the time, Mr Lijanović is talking about. What's still today, I'd say, to me more unacceptable... The Puhalac seems to be appointed to me as minister in the RS and we don't have a minister today in fact... in this ministry. Therefore, I think that this situation is such that making any decision, in which we, as Parliament, would take certain views of favouring CEFTA in relation to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, would be a very big mistake. And for that reason, I think it would be good to make one comparative analysis of all these documents, CEFTA, the SAA, and then these decisions on measures to protect domestic production and that, although there is no minister, whether or not there is, its deputy and associates, the analysis is made and delivered as urgently as possible to this Parliament. I cannot say that it is for the next session but it is certain that it is such a serious thing that we, as Parliamentarians, who... are not exactly in this area, I would say, professionally, must be convinced that the measures that will be taken – will not be in conflict with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU. So I would ask that once again, and Mr. Lijanović's proposer, we try to find this solution because I really don't understand it anymore: releasing customs and everything from imports, we expect even the cost of goods, what policy! In that sense, etc., so that, I think, one analysis could show us the right way out of this situation. 29 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19393	I thank the esteemed representative Bešlagić. The following has been registered for the debate by the distinguished representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19394	Dear colleagues, I'll be very brief on this. We all have a serious dilemma about whether this is the right way to protect domestic producers or not. In fact, it would be good if we could use this law to pass this law and thus protect domestic production. Of course, those who are not in favour of it have an excuse, and we got it at a table here today from the competent ministry, that it is contrary to the legislation already passed, that international contracts are older than our laws, etc. Either way, we adopt today or we don't pass the law, we delay it to the analysis or we don't delay it, to any analysis, domestic producers won't get any better. And domestic producers, gentlemen, are in a catastrophic situation. And I'm not going to say it's because of this ministry or this Council of Ministers or the CEFTA Agreement or, I don't know what document, but in any case, it is in the same situation I just said it was. Are we at the level where there are opportunities to do our part of the job? We're not, at the levels of the government of the entity, or the government of the canton. Have we subsidized enough domestic producers to hold the game? We didn't. I'll take one example, just one example to say, that last year over 140 million KM was spent for imports of juices and water, and that at the same time we exported a little over 7 million. To say now that all those juices and all those waters are more quality than the ones we have here, it doesn't make sense. To say that they can all produce cheaper than we can, and that doesn't make much sense. I must say that I have had the opportunity to speak to one of the largest producers in this country, the "Vitinka“ from Kozluk, or the people from "Vitinka" who have presented a number of arguments that point to an unfair relationship between our producers and producers here,... since we are talking about the CEFTA Agreement, from Croatia and Serbia. Not just the legal ones, not just the ones that are defined by regulations, but some others. Well, for example, people say: in order to export one water dropper, he must now stand at the border towards Serbia for about 20 days, because he has to go to the Institute, so the Institute has to check. So when an analysis is carried out at the Institute, when the report returns from that analysis, etc., there goes about 15-20 or even more days. Of course, what it means is the deck of a speedboat 20 and a few days at the border crossing, you don't have to say and what it means in the price of water or juice, the way it is, you shouldn't talk either. Whether we have done our part of the job to an extent enough, so we have provided the exact same conditions for the import of water or the same obstacles because these are obstacles, not legal preconditions, so the same barriers to imports as others have provided obstacles so as not to enter our country into their country. Here's all I'm talking about is juice and water. I think that this law, was adopted, was not accepted, warned of one fact, which is that unless we do something very quickly, we will be left without domestic production. We won't have this seven million in water or juice or any other product, as far as we're going to export. 30 I don’t know if any meetings were held, a joint meeting of all governments, in whose jurisdiction this is, and that they put this on the agenda to find a solution for each of them to do their part of the work and change this situation. I had no information, and I couldn't get information that such a meeting happened. I think that in fact this law and this decision on the law is actually a vote or a warning to the Council of Ministers that this issue must be brought seriously, much more seriously than before. And that is a warning to all governments that this issue must be approached more seriously. We are fully aware of the relationship between our legislation and international legislation. But by voting for this law, we will support this law, and by proposing a law on VAT amendments and additions, we actually want to send a clear message that something must be done in this country to protect the poorest and to protect production. So, this should be a reminder, no matter how this law is passed, whether it has been delayed, accepted, accepted, accepted, a solution will have to be sought, because not even by accepting this law, probably later in the procedure of the House of Peoples, there would be another situation – so, even by accepting this law here, we will not improve the position of domestic production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19395	I would like to thank Reverend Novaković. Next registered representative, Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19396	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, at one of the previous sessions, I have just as a creamworth pointed out that this topic should be a topic for a special session of Parliament because if we do not create conditions through legislation and help our producers and exporters, it will be quite relevant if we adopt some law on citizens' associations, we will not survive. So I also said then that we could create one platform, here's the Bosnian-Herzegovic patriotism in the export of goods, that we don't deal with national patriotism, so we're going to divide the Srbin, the Bošnjak, the Hrvat and the others again, but here we can have a consensus, a unique attitude. So, as a member of the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission, I have repeatedly participated, no more than constantly, and I am not in a dilemma in the adoption of this law for another reason. So I'm talking about procedure, fully aware that domestic law cannot change the international agreement. Then how do we adopt this law and support it? Secondly, we have talked countless times about CEFTA and CEFTA is a completely different agreement than the Stabilisation Agreement with the EU because it consists of eight CEFTA countries and this contract is not mostly EU members, but it is an international agreement. What I have always asked for on the Commission and, unfortunately, that Parliament has never seriously discussed this, I repeat, how we will survive! It is that we have always had information that our ministry has resolutely prepared 62 measures for this country to start breathing and domestic production. What I have always insisted on, I repeat, is the fact that these measures have not taken effect. Well, Mr. Novaković said about that water and beer, we can talk about anything and everything. We have on the table today a set of audit reports of these... and we need 10 sessions to read them and discuss something and that's how we let them go. We're going to be a little judgmental, there have been violations of this and that, but unfortunately, we've never had the right reports of our agencies set up by the Council of Ministers or us. For example, the Veterinary Agency, Food Control Agency, etc. We have never received their reports to say: The Veterinary Agency has carried out 504 controls, it has found that, the problems are here and there, so that the chicken truck does not wait at the border crossing for six days, which we are exporting allegedly to Croatia, so the goods are calibrating, come back and everything has fallen apart. So I also spoke here in Parliament here and, I repeat, I am glad that citizens live well in Croatia and Serbia, but I prefer that we live here well. This is my country, people. Secondly, we've never had a serious analysis of what our resources in agriculture mean, how much we hire people, which are investments, and when we all go out and have a chance in front of the media, the EU invests 45% of its budget in stimulation, subsidies, I don't know what else, protecting some production in their countries, and then when they do all that, I won't tell us everything, then that waste and garbage across the border gets in here, so this poor people are being poisoned. He says, "It's better to buy for 50 fenings a side than a brand or a half, not knowing what we're buying because control is nothing or it's not there." So this is one serious topic that can't be treated through this law alone. This parliament definitely needs to be serious and, thank Bog, some difficult political issues are a little out of the way right now. Let's take this topic seriously. And help these people, because as a member of this committee, I said in one session, I can no longer look farmers in the eye. It's like I'm against them. Like I don't want the progress of this country. It's like I don't want development. It's like I don't want to export goods, not import this water and juice 140 million, beer 150. Niko asks how the Banjaljaca brewery works, the Sarajevo brewery, the tuzlanski brewery! Let's see what we do here. Of course, aware of the complete fact that there are these agreements that someone has made on behalf of this country, somewhere we've done well, somewhere we'll only feel the consequences, is it customs 70% or is 80% or is 40%, the effects don't yet know, so again there's gonna be an old story on the bridge we got, on the chalice we lost. And in the end, when we sublime all of this or draw some line, I'm afraid that tsunami will take away both the bridge and the casserole. Then we won't know where we are. So, this topic is about how this convocation is before. I've followed that in earlier stimuli, and let's never move from a zero point. Are we really going to understand what the interest of this country is, and that's for the people to survive. If any of us know -- and we know, at least they're warning us, I see every night on TV -- how many consumer baskets, how many canton receipts, entities in this country are. Will all people be able to enroll children in school, but I repeat again, the key question, will they survive first? So it's crazy that I warn this Parliament that we have real resources, this country has three key resources that are dominant today, and in 10 years it will be even more important -- energy, energy potentials, potentials in agriculture that no one knows yet how much water they are! So we have the resources of the economy, the natural ones, but we don't have the will to go into a serious debate and say who's obliged to handle this. Is this the Ministry or the Council of Ministers, is it us, is it someone else, and that we are seriously grasping the stake to start solving this. I will podržati this proposal by Mr. Izetbegović to postpone it. What about when we postpone? So what do we do? We keep delaying, we keep delaying, we delay, and we never bring it to the finish line. Someone goes public, whatever they say, whatever the number, they won't make a mistake. The possibility of employment in agriculture is 200,000 people. Just the other day, I asked the Chamber of Commerce for information, and they have no idea. No holdings registered by entities, this isn't done, it's not what, it's not what. So are we really going to argue here more on our own and put ourselves in a position to know or do not know anything, and it's up to us as some responsibility, and all of this is to put aside and wait for these (under alleged signs, not to be offended) poor farmers who don't know 32 because now there's going to be a kilo of ransom wheat, who don't know if they'll ever come into effect this blue diesel-fuel, who don't know anything yet, and we expect this country to start breathing, that we hire these people, to get this law into effect. I repeat, I'm all for this, but as a legalist, I cannot accept any law that violates an international agreement. Then we're a non-serious country. And that is why we have been looking at the Commission for the opportunity to see what we are doing with the European Commission. How about our ministry? I repeat, we're really working very hard with these people, but they're powerless. I say, 62 measures have been prepared, not two in effect, three. Who's going to do it, make someone say it - it's got to be like this from now on. Why? So this country doesn't go bankrupt. I ask you as colleagues that we really keep in mind that after the holidays immediately, if we are to postpone this, we will hold a thematic session only on this topic. And of course, not to make agriculture dominant, but industry. If we export anything, we have all these indicators on the table. We've received information from the Ministry that something foreign trade deficit is shrinking. It's shrinking, and that's good. But it is not good for BiH that will now suffer damage in the first wave of the Stabilisation Agreement with the EU. So what my grandmother would say is, one term is great: while we're strangling, which means we're wise and conscious, we're going to sink. So, please, you can't break this over your knee anymore and look at these people farmers crying for our help, looking for it. I don't have a magic wand, and whoever mentions a politician's magic wand, I don't want to look at him because he's not a magician. Who makes him have a magic wand? There's got to be something in his head, and if he doesn't know, here's what I don't know, but to ask those people who know and get serious. And that's why I'm asking you, because I really appreciate you from the College, that after our vacations, we have this as one thematic session. We had everything and everything. Everyone came to us here and gave some lectures we didn't have any use for. Let's put this on the table and discuss exports, just exports, export companies! To have information until then that companies are exporting, which are their barriers, what can we do, whether it's customs, excises, tariffs, that we're no longer spinning in that vicious circle, and we're all offering some solutions, and we're in the worse down. I'm not the mother Tereza here so I'm complaining about the fate of the people now, but I live with that people as you do, gentlemen. They just ask you if you have cell phones, does anyone call you? I can't live with the people, he says, Mr. Slavo, so someone insults me, of course, and says what they want, if we're going to survive tomorrow, what's happening, what kind of wave is waiting for us, we're not even aware of it, and we're not going to live anywhere. Just the indirect tax administration that put itself above us, so we're going to ask for changes to the law. He says we're going to lose 117 million but we're going to make up for it by increasing the import of goods. I'm not for importing garbage, anything or anything? So, to conclude, it's not a bad proposal for Mr. Izetbegović to put it there until a certain time limit, but to make it a deadline, to prepare all institutions and the Ministry and Council of Ministers and the Chamber of Commerce and Farmers and our expert groups and entity government and cantonal, all engage structures. When we had round tables and, I don't know, some sessions and public debates about what, which, again, I say, is not irrelevant to me, this is the most important issue of this country. The question of the land is how the people will survive! And don't you politicians now, who are engaged in a political campaign, go after a story again and push me more into a break-in. Here, I'm a member of that committee, I can't live with the people. How are you going to solve this very quickly, of course individually, and I don't think of anyone because they won't get rid of anything, we don't need to lie to the people. That's why it's a good suggestion to get to that session, but we need to know which one, all this stuff, and we say that day: this can't, this can't. This will come, this won't, because we're the most responsible and we're making decisions, laws, and that's what's going to work. 33 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19397	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19398	Dear President, colleagues, fellow representatives, distinguished guests, I hope... we are all aware of the need to pass this law because we have excessive imports of agricultural products. It is evident and in this House we have discussed it at least several times in the last year. We have a disturbance in regulatory mechanisms within the state because entities, cantons, cannot implement the financial commitments they have made, cannot increase the incentives they have committed to through their development strategies on agriculture, I particularly think of the Federation of BiH. We have inconspicuous damages due to unused resources in BiH, we have over 40% unemployment. Opponents of this law are persistently trying to withdraw the tendency to violate the CEFTA Agreement, but without this law, we are now violating the CEFTA Agreement, i.e. We do not apply it in all its parts because it also has protective measures, and none of these safeguard measures has been applied so far, although we have six months in force on this agreement, and we have met the conditions for these safeguards to be applied. For this reason, a judicial expert on foreign trade is also involved, which is also a senior expert in the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, which practically carries out its business under criminal and material responsibility, which confirmed that this law is not contrary to the CEFTA Agreement and has confirmed that BiH, in accordance with CEFTA, can introduce protective measures of this type, and not only by CEFTA but also by the rules of the World Trade Organisation, GAT, etc. So we removed all the dilemmas when we violate the CEFTA Agreement. So today we are hiding it because we are not implementing it in all their parts, and by adopting this law we will not violate it but we will also implement those parts that are in the interests of BiH, and not just other members of this agreement. I'm appalled by the fact that the SDA Representatives' Club is looking for analysis for the situation in agriculture. So we in this house have discussed several times on this subject, practically the last year has been current and CEFTA and protection measures, after which we have had further decisions by the Council of Ministers which were abolished seven days ago where certain customs duties were charged on imports of agricultural products from Serbia and Croatia, so these customs are not available today, then there has been a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which further liberalises trade with the EU, which means we have a drastically deteriorated situation, and then we are looking for additional analyses. We have a sharp rise, a drastic, external trade deficit in 2006: from 6 billion to 8 in 2007 and, according to the trend in the first half of this year, this year we will reach 10 billion. I understand that there is a large part of the industry that must have such a state, energy, etc., but there are 2 billion agricultural products that we can all produce in BiH and we don't have to import them at all. And if we continue with this trend, it takes 65 years to balance our external trade balance in agricultural products. I don't know if we're ready to decide to wait 65 years to balance that foreign trade balance. I don't think we should wait for that, but we should take measures immediately and cut that number of years drastically. 34 I understand the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. They essentially defend their decision a year ago and it is logical that they can hardly change their position now, but have informed us at the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs that they have decided to form a Department for the Protection of Domestic Production within the Ministry, which confirms that something must be done on their part as well. And I think that this law should be passed and it should be in force until that department is formed and until the Ministry proposes protection measures from that department and then we can put this law out of force here very effectively within a few minutes. Examples of what was done well: three years ago decisions were made. The Council of Ministers made decisions to charge customs duties on certain agricultural products. At the same time, the campaign was under way that these decisions would cause huge political damage to BiH, that Serbia and Croatia would react to, that contracts would be terminated, however possible... were used in the public as well, that those decisions would not be made. Fortunately, at that time, the Council of Ministers was determined, made such decisions, and now three years later we see that these decisions have provided positive effects because they have provided over 100 million marks in the budgets, which have been reused for encouragement or other purposes. They had the effect of a certain safeguard measure and created certain conditions for our producers to be able to operate more easily in BiH. So we have a positive example that lasted three years, and I think now we need to make another positive example where again after two or three years we're going to say that we did something good and then pass it, put out of force this law, and then they'll probably come forward with the decisions of the Council of Ministers from this Department of Protection of Domestic Production that they intend to form. And I think it would be good, as we unanimously in this House have brought the CEFTA Agreement and committed ourselves to its application, to unanimously pass this law that will practically ensure the application of this CEFTA Agreement. This will significantly help BiH producers, along with everything, but it will not be close enough. But with all those measures proposed by the Council of Ministers, 60 of them and something, if part of them can be realised, we can expect that some of the production survives in BiH. But if we don't, then we're going to create assumptions that we're completely out of agricultural production. Citizens of this country will continue to pay expensive import food because it will be produced by Europeans who have a Captain 10 or 5 times bigger than in BiH and we will be permanently dependent on food imports, because the most critical period we have ahead of us is until 2012, until we have the possibility of access to EU pre-accession funds for agriculture. If we lose production until then, as we have done so far, then when we can have access to EU pre-accession funds, we will actually have no need, because access to these funds and their use have only those who have production. So from 2012 to 2016 or 2018, we will not develop agriculture because we will not use pre-accession funds, and then we will enter the EU as a country without agriculture. And those 43% of the EU budget that is intended for agriculture will benefit all other countries, and we will not because we will not have our own production and our citizens will pay for the expensive food to be produced in some other countries. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19399	I thank the esteemed representative Ivanković. Next is Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić. I'm sorry, it was before, I didn't register the replica. Dear Representative Jašarević. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19400	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in part of mentioning the SDA and some big surprise for the proposed conclusions, I would like to clarify that this is about consistency and taking responsibility. The ministry that delivered its opinion today had a much easier way of saying that this could be brought and that it could be popular. But then you should give up on being responsible. And those who just want to be popular today can say so and vote for it, but responsible means not to be rejected by the law but to think about whether there is... a way to improve agricultural production. The postponement of this law, I must say, does not mean that it will be adopted, but means that the effects and the current position in BiH will be seen and that one package – the Council of Ministers programme will support domestic production in all its branches, especially agriculture. Those who today advocated agriculture, once they agreed to pay compensation to the fighters, before that they had advocated that the disabled would be compensated, when sporting events came, they pledged to pay for the help of sports events and to come to the position that the list of our wishes is justified, but it is much greater than the possibility of BiH financing all this in part of public spending. No Niko prevents us from helping to produce, create new jobs, and especially agricultural production at lower levels of government, but we should then say today how many municipal budgets in which we have largely allocated for our development or all there is consumption. How many cantonal budgets in the Federation have they done and how many entity budgets in both our entities? It is not possible to talk about any sector of consumption and just talk about it. It must always be talked about balance. Those who don't talk about balance are absolutely right, they just don't have the responsibility of government. They often have the responsibility of the opposition, for a reason they put pressure on themselves because the pressure has to be done because of ineffectiveness. In objectively, in the Council of Ministers, it is also a question of the powers of the Council of Ministers, when it is assumed that some of the laws that would be very helpful in production are within the competence of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board. So I would ask that the conclusions be accepted as a responsibility of the SDA and that as little as possible of surprises arise. And finally, I have to say, a rich experience that we have a judicial expert in law-making procedures; we haven't had time, we're going to explore the role of a court expert in parliamentary procedure. We know what he's like in trials, how much he can drink there or not drink water. He's not the court's expert, nor is he in court, by which he's automatically judged, when he says yes, and the court says that when he says no, and the court says no. It is generally taken into account, the scale, and for what it is, as an inconclusive argument, is taken into account for the other, it is rejected. I'm afraid there's a little involved policy here, too, because it's objectively here and it can't get away from politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19401	Dear Representative Lijanović: a reply to the replica. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19402	This law is a purely political question: whether there is a political will to protect domestic production, to bring to the budget 150 million marks each year, and not to be protested before the government, but to give people what is passed by law. No, obviously, it's not what you want, but it's what you want to fill the budget of neighbouring countries; so we're going to have a deficit this year with two neighbouring countries of 3 billion and 500 million marks! What did they... they put us in charge so we could help them with 3 billion and 500 million marks? And even if they had a need, I'd say here's some, but they don't even have a need because they're more developed away than we are. So I say this is a purely political question: is there a political will to pass this law or does it not exist? And the legal question isn't at all, because basically the lawyers have said everything about this, and I don't think there's anything controversial about it. And I will continue to advocate that we solve this political issue in a way that protects domestic production, raise 150 million marks and fill our budgets, not destroy domestic production and we do not have money budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19403	The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19404	Mr. Chairman, look out, this is a topic that is truly current, burning, especially these days after the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and I'm surprised that, by the example of the citizens, even certain media, we haven't dealt with this matter before, but I don't think it's too late, and I'm saying that for the next reason. By signing the CEFTA Agreement and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, it is evident that domestic production is at risk. We wanted to be aware of it or not, that's how it is. Who can tell me otherwise, I'd like to prove it to me and get rid of a very difficult question that really concerns me. I don't know if we watch agriculture shows broadcast by all operators on television and on others, and from these shows and from those most common agricultural individual producers there's much to learn. We're not going to import expensive food here, as Mr. Lijanović said, I'm not afraid of it. If it is expensive, when we export it, we will produce ourselves food that is cheaper, than we will import much, much cheaper food than we can produce. So imagine, from one China, a agricultural product comes to you cheaper than it can be produced on our market. That's something he needs to tell us. Also, it should tell us the fact that if the liberalisation of this market comes to an end, and there will be a fallout, because of the trend, so in the world, because we are due to the outdated technology of time that is behind us, etc. lagging behind in all this, so there will be cheaper food imports for our citizens, if they understand it quickly – it will be as something favourable. However, we must keep in mind official data that BiH's population in a 1/3 ratio was exclusively agricultural production, not for its own purposes, but for its core activity. We will import cheaper agricultural products or food products, however you like, and we will come to the point of jeopardising this 1/3 of our citizens who will immediately become unemployed, and who are now not seen as unemployed. 37 Furthermore, we import everything and everything, it seems to me, because we have on several occasions found that we do not have the option, I will not say the intentions or the need to control all these food products that are imported into BiH, and we have often witnessed that certain food products have been put out of use, and that is when they are already distributed to the lowest shops, not to speak in the malls, and when several citizens have already consumed them. So I think that this problem is not simple and that once we need to catch up with the problem of the direct existence and life of our citizens and that this Parliament is also thinking about it. And I think we need to adopt this law not because I think we're going to help protect domestic production, I'm certainly not sure that this law is going to help fully, but to irritate the next one, and that is, my suggestion is that because of all this that is evident, and here, even before the proposal is concluded, I'm going to say that. We have heard almost the owner and director of the Vogoscan factory "Folkswagen" think about further fate and further work, because it will be threatened by the adoption of these new regulations, i.e. by signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, because we are a country that has been disabled in relation to EU members through certain difficulties, from seen incentives to others, labour forces, etc. Of course, the product produced in BiH will, perhaps even better, be more expensive than the EU product. So, when we look at it all, we have to try to protect domestic production and try to attract foreign partners to invest in it, and we can only attract them if it's... cheaper and possible to place on the world market, and I would take this issue quite seriously... And I would therefore suggest that it is evident that the signing of the CEFTA Agreement and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement of the EU is a significant threat to domestic production, therefore: The Council of Ministers of BiH is in charge of making a strategy as soon as possible, but indeed a real strategy with the most important experts to protect domestic production across all segments and deliver to this Parliament for consideration and eventual adoption. If this is the Council of Ministers, I suggest to you now, consider and conclude that it needs a special session of Parliament, I will support it, too, because I also think that a special session of Parliament on their strategy will be needed. I'm aware he won't be able to do it very quickly, and I'm aware he won't be able to do it without competent experts and without a lot of funds, but it's something that'll come back next year. And just because another one of this is next is that I have spoken to many ambassadors, the people of politics who made this topic, and the newly-roasted EU members, their primary task when signing the Agreement was to see exactly what would happen to their domestic production and how to protect their citizens from falling standards, i.e. how to make that standard retain or increase and bring them to EU level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19405	I thank the esteemed representative of Okolić. Next, the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19406	Just one explanation. I support what Mr. Okolić said about prices. We're apparently going to have imported cheap food at first. But when we destroy our production, then it won't be cheap for us anymore, but it'll be very expensive for us, because its production with 38 that we could possibly regulate prices we can no longer raise, because raising agricultural production can't be done in a month, two, three, that's being built for tens of years, so that this production can exist. So it can seem to us that it's cheap food, but in the long run, it's going to be very expensive food, because it's going to be produced with the Captain much bigger than it is with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19407	Thank you. A debate or a replica? The following is announced for the debate by the distinguished representative Snježana Rajilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19408	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this is the topic that this assembly is about, and especially this committee that I chair is dealing with for almost a year and a half, two, and I have to say without any greater success, to my, of course, regret. In this committee... various legal acts have been initiated, all in order to protect domestic production. These are the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, and the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, etc. etc. So here's a law that didn't come from the Commission itself, but one of the members of the Commission I propose a proposal for a law on the protection of the CEFTA Agreement and all that in broad, long, and big zero results. Not to say crossed zero. That's not gonna happen. Always someone else has to make the last decision, such as the Board of Directors for indirect taxation, which for months is not even worthy to forward to us any answer to our questions, sending, rushing, etc. so you feel like you're not elected officials, but they're chosen by the people and they can literally do whatever they want, and even ignore us, which is a humiliating situation for me. As far as this law is concerned, he has already appeared in this House, passed a certain procedure and has not passed the House of Peoples. Of course, at that point, no Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed, and then the BiH Parliament felt that this law could still go into procedure, that it could be applied. However, we are now in another situation when we have a Stabilisation and Association Agreement in place and some of its provisions may indicate that this law may not apply. However, looking at the real situation in the field that many MPs have talked about here, I will not repeat it, it seems to me that it burns from all sides and that these proposals, which, with all due respect, because I do not have the right to comment on someone's conclusions and, behold, I will say only briefly. So, the SDA Parliament Club proposes these conclusions, end of the year – is it a long period? A whole year! So it is that... of 1.7. ... the application of customs tariffs, i.e. zero tariffs on certain products of 1.7, means we'll still have some effect that can be seen at the end of the year, but we have this CEFTA agreement in place, all this year. So, if a year is something we just have to follow, so let's see what the results are, then, until we agree to take measures, so we take measures, that's probably 7 or 8 months next year. I think it's too long a time for that. 39 I mean it for the reasons that I live in the border area, and I am really in a situation to see how many of my peddlers are now more entering BiH at these border crossings, and, of course, here I am dealing with this commission that I'm dealing with, I've been borrowing some of my friends to see some of the products that come into BiH and say: more and more agricultural products. For now, no cheaping. We're expecting him. But there's also no oil worth, and we know that customs are down by 25%. However, of course, our merchants do what they do, so now oil is even more expensive than it was and the question of how it will go with agricultural products. What Mr. Jovičić was saying about the measures the ministry took, I really welcome them. These are the proposed 62 measures. However, they are very difficult and slow to apply. So it's not controversial, here I have in my hand, or a decision on measures to protect domestic production from excessive imports from 2002, but it's a problem to apply this measure. Here I am on the Commission the other day discussing, of course, and wanting to contribute to reaching someone concrete, to come up with some concrete measures that will help agricultural producers, rather than struggling between the Ministry, individual MPs and the Commission, whether this law or not should be taken, to ask how many people have achieved this measure, i.e. producers and natural persons. I finally got the answer: one from Tuzla! It's about the detergent manufacturer. But the process being conducted is, in this sense, prescribed by this decision is extremely difficult and long and very few producers engage in this problem at all and initiate these proceedings. Especially, if we're talking about manufacturers... farmers who don't come to their senses to do it, because they're probably not professional enough, they don't have enough money, they don't have enough time to start these initiatives. However, by reading this decision, here I am, down here, finding that there are safeguards, so they say, permanent safeguards that may be, so they are listed, so it says, there is an extension of the application of safeguard measures, the reintroduction of safeguards and temporary safeguards. I am now asking the Ministry's representatives: Is there any chance that this ministry, reading what I just said, is proposing a decision that will at least partially lead to the protection of domestic production, which can naturally be applied in view of Article 23 bis until we get into a situation that we have all the suggestions proposed by the SDA's Club of Representatives? Because I'm afraid, waiting for these conclusions that we're going to wait too long and then we won't have, that, in fact, the reaction that we're going to have then will not be good enough for those people for whom we intended them, means directly agricultural producers, but also for consumers if the prices of agricultural products go up. So here I am – of course, if you say that you can make a decision because... I am not a lawyer and I would not like to say that it can – I suggest one conclusion. It means, 'It is the Council of Ministers' duty to reconsider the activation of the Decision on the Protection of Domestic Production, which refers to agricultural production, thinking here on customs chapters 2, 4 and 16 or from 0 to 24 depending on how you say whether or not that decision can or may not go with a temporary measure of temporary character, and the temporary measures, as far as I have knowledge, can be made, so that we would have a momentary reaction to this situation, and then perhaps something different in the form of a regulation or already what the Ministry considered necessary." Thank you very much. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19409	I thank the esteemed representative Rajilić. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19410	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, I would like to stress that... debate and attempts and representatives and protests by domestic producers in order to find some meaningful policy or to adopt some meaningful measures to protect domestic production take more than a year and a half. And you see, all these attempts and efforts to reach some measures are often qualified as being conservative, not wanting to open a domestic market, to violate international contracts such as CEFTA, such as WTO standards or previous free trade contracts, by doing so. You see, that was the easiest answer for those institutions that were obliged to do something concrete. And in fact, that's not true, all these international contracts allow countries to protect themselves from excessive imports, to protect their domestic production. And every country in the world is fighting it. Here, I heard at the last session of our commission from here Mr. Sabrija of the Ministry of Foreign Trade that, for example, if I remembered correctly, the UK has a department with 25 employees who only work to protect domestic production. In America, it's 250 people. And I also heard the good news that there's going to be a little division of three or four, four or five people, but after ten years of figuring out that we have a problem. You see, there is a big dilemma here whether this bill violates the provisions of CEFTA or other international agreements that BiH has signed! The expert says we're not in violation, that it's not the opposite, that the state has the right to take such measures. You see, in response, that is, to this proposed law, we have received three quotes from the Council of Ministers which can be read: two are legal lessons and the third is contrary to the international, here, specifically CEFTA, and will remain the condition it is. You see, all these conclusions that are now being placed here, running as a way out of this situation, in our experience, will be barren, empty, untapped. If you do an analysis, in this year and a half the same conclusions have been spinning several times that haven't realized anything. If today we have received an opinion from the Council of Ministers or specifically from the Ministry in terms of this: yes, we have this problem, we are aware of it, we will take it, we will implement the provisions of the decision that is in force, the decisions on the protection of domestic production, be patient, the Ministry, or the Council of Ministers has concrete measures to overcome this situation, I would be against this law. And now I will sincerely support this law, although I am not convinced that it solves some problems, but I will support it honestly, as a pressure on the Council of Ministers to start doing their job. This is inadmissible. When we have a problem, we have excessive imports, we have an external trade deficit that's on the rise, we act like nothing's happening. Instead, I say, we have from the competent ministry an opinion on this law that comes down to it: let go of all the kinky, remains the status quo. Now, for that reason, I'm saying, I'm going to support this law, although I'm not firmly convinced that something important is changing with it, but it is pressure, it is some beginning that the government of this country, if I can call it that, is starting to do its job. Thank you. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19411	Thank you. The next me reported a prominent representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19412	Thank you. Dear Members of the College, colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the Council of Ministers and Guests, I honestly tell you, I don't know now, as an economist, how to start this story, because I thought this was some economic law relating to economic issues, but Jerko totally confused me by saying that this law is political and now that we... Of course, here, I'll understand it as economic-political, so it's like that law that goes into economic policy. However, I am confused because the motive of the legislator was that with the of course measures, which would eventually follow the adoption of this law, fill in a little more budgets in entities and... increase items and payouts for fighters. So now I ask myself: Why do we not have representatives of the Association of Fight Organisations and so on instead of the respected representatives of the Association of Farmers? 'Cause probably the story would look a little different? I only say this a little because I am really confused now, but I will still speak as an economist, because the content of this law is mostly part of the economic nature, although of course it... is intruding into the problem of international law and although it is, of course, the instrument of economic policy etc. But here, I want to remind you, of course, with many of the discussions that have been heard today,... which have, of course, arguments etc. but I would like to remind you, first of all, that this is a law on the protection of domestic production within the framework of the international agreement, so domestic law within the framework of the implementation of the international agreement, which means that domestic law must not make an incident in the sense of breach of the provisions of that international agreement. If, possibly, the international agreement we entered is not good, then there are procedures that should possibly be applied in order to change the international agreement. And when considering in the first reading, I will only remind you that the Club of Representatives of the SBiH has chosen to support the principles of this law, taking into account the need to really, with one due attention, take a different approach now in the adoption of measures and analysis of existing measures in the case of domestic production, i.e. possibly payment and balance issues, especially in the external trade segment. And that it will also be a reason to maybe encourage a little bit of the Council of Ministers in different segments of activity that... possibly, perhaps, especially in the context of trends in the world economy when it comes to, say, specific food, perhaps reviewing to what extent it can contribute to its decisions by easing the effects of price and food and energy growth on the world market. Or, as we may be able to foster domestic measures a little more domestic production, especially when it comes to the food sector, in order to... perhaps in some way reduce the dangers that threaten the Bosnian-Herzegovic economy, just led by that fact. Let me just remind you. I then presented one information that since November 2005, food prices on the world market, and here I have a newer one, has increased by 200 and some percentages and will continue the trend in food prices in the next medium term. Given that energy prices will also record the upward trend and that food production and, of course, the state of the energy market are mutually linked, I appreciate that our economy needs to be very much, i.e. those who run our economy at different levels of government, they need to deal with this problem very well. We already have a trend in price growth. It is because of these 42 trends that I am afraid that macroeconomic stability in BiH will also not be questioned because of price hikes, price growth trends, possibly inflational tendencies and everything else. In that sense, I have also suggested that, possibly in collaboration with farmers, or associations of the non-governmental sector, and the government sector, of course, there may be some,...to say, recovery plan or some strategy – how can we respond. Because if someone thinks this isn't about us or if someone thinks this isn't about our European path or if someone thinks this isn't about us entering the World Trade Organisation, other Euro-Atlantic integrations, etc. If, then, someone has such illusions, let them be removed immediately, if necessary, we will raise a thousand and one argument for it. However, I will return to the bill itself. I expected today's debate in the second reading to go on about the law itself. Here is the proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production that is not large, indeed... six, seven members and here, to remind you, just in the first five members, let's say, who are not at issue that we are, even when we declare in the first reading and mention it, only one member who is indeed contradictory of the provisions of the international contract, why is this law being passed among other things. I personally appreciate that this Article 5, let's say, could have been a different formulation if it really wanted to protect domestic production, in general, or protect agricultural production, in general, without violating the provisions, if necessary international law, whether or not. If you need any skill in terms of a professional, I will recommend some institutions in that direction, or some individuals who do so. However, here, I will remind you, this is not about protection, what we could hear through discussion, neither cars, nor water, nor general domestic production, but also about Article 5, or any correction of customs tariffs related to meat, milk, bird eggs, meat processing, vegetable products, fruit and alcohol and cheese. So I ask you, is domestic production being exhausted with these products, or is agricultural production being exhausted with these products at all, that is, why these products? Perhaps, I suppose the bill promoter was guided by some criteria, or some data that we don't have here, of course. I have to say, unfortunately, that the data that has been delivered to us speaks more, i.e. analysis and external chambers of commerce and analysis that you have presented to us and even those who have no signatures... are more in favour of maybe some other selections. Maybe it's just the automotive industry or the acid water or something else that we should have fun about. I just want to mention, to draw attention to the fact that there really is a need for us all to deal with the issue, no, I'm not just going to say the protection of domestic production, but an adequate response to what is happening in both BiH and the whole economy, the global food economy in particular and, of course, in the context of energy growth because of the possible consequences, and we already feel them. But I want to mention, just, if nothing is done, these consequences that we now have will get a galloping trend. And I am paying particular attention to those who breathe with issues and problems of agriculture who are truly genuinely interested, not demagogical, to help any sector at all, here if we are talking about agriculture, let's say agriculture, even if they are selectively concerned with this issue. In that sense, I am now speaking as an economist, not as a... one law that regulates economic problems, and more is a political issue in the context of combat problems. I want to draw attention to the conclusions. And if it is possible that Parliament will be, that is, the majority will be in the direction of delaying the plea of this, I have no objection, but our position will be exactly identical when the plea is postponed. Every law, every 43 draft law that is contrary to the provisions of the international agreement, will be given... the negative votes of the SBiH Parliament Club. I only want to mention if the problem is in the international agreement, then there are other mechanisms, if the problem is possible in solving the sector to which the regulation of this law relates, then it is also a solution in some other, in some other moves, rather than in this way. However, I'm not sure we'll get anything if this is delayed by six months, so if nothing changes. Therefore, I also suggest to the College that after six months we do not get the same law back on the agenda, because in six months we will have much higher food prices on the world market, much harder the position of domestic agricultural producers, we will have a much higher rate of inflation and a much higher standard of living in BiH. I say this really from what I know for sure, which we can unfortunately expect as a result of this general trend, and in the absence of adequate measures that BiH authorities have not taken. So, if we're going to possibly just postpone the statement of the same law, we're not going to get anything, we're going to get this same story again after six months and a statement with an outcome that can be expected. However, if we would possibly add the conclusions proposed by the SDA Members' Club and make them a little bit proactive for domestic institutions in the sense that after six months we may have some proposals, or some activities in Parliament and in communication with the executive authorities, then there is logic, of course, that after six months of some different discussion and analysis and some other information we have ahead of us that might also help us to really encourage all of this. I just want to remind you, agriculture, production, especially food, as well as food industries, so it doesn't just get into agriculture, livestock, etc. rather than in certain segments of industry, it really requires special attention. It is burdened by the many problems resulting from our level, the low level of activity of our newer developments in the history of BiH, the relocation of the population, more perhaps deuralisation of the village, demotivation for agricultural production, and at the same time, of course, we have some various incentives. Do we, for example, have the Federal Ministry in charge of RS given adequate incentives? Are our inspections under control, are these incentives really used for the purposes they're intended for? Do we have results from these incentives, i.e. some economic effects, etc.? I know that some here in this room know much better, almost know as much as I do, certainly to that extent, at least, when it comes to this problem. But I just want to mention that a lot of segments in that analysis can be considered, if we really want to talk honestly about this problem. I'm doing it here today in this room, except for some story that's general and, of course, we can always speak well when it comes to foreign trade issues, unfortunately, I haven't heard. Second, I want to draw attention to another problem. We got a memo here (which, of course, is the College; although I did yesterday, but really not with bad intentions asked the College). Where did we get the skill of a court expert who was declared a court expert a solution to the cantonal minister of justice? A court expert on foreign trade and customs finance, i.e. a judicial expert on foreign trade and customs finance. He's not a court expert on foreign trade policy. Where did we get this today at this table? However, of course, he can... and we are addressed by other NGOs, etc. Well, here we go. But now I'm interested in who paid for that art? Did this parliament possibly pay for this court witch? Because its artisan is certainly less valuable than a bag of barn manure, which would certainly encourage small agricultural production, or would help, if, a little bit to the agricultural sector, etc. I'm not going to enter 44 content because I don't think he deserves attention, because an expert who claims this isn't a violation of the international agreement, and an expert on foreign trade finance,...is, of course, self-questioned. Or, for example, an expert who absolutely does not have the elemental knowledge of the course of multilateral trade negotiations, such as the CEFTA Agreement, especially on the course of multilateral trade negotiations in the agricultural sector, about what the country that is almost entering the World Trade Organisation already has as an obligation at this stage, and will have in a few months when the deadline that is... the proposal of the conclusion of the SDA... is established here. What does the earth have as such, or what does it have before it, or what obligations does it have and what obligations does it make? So, out of elemental ignorance, ignorance of things, and, if Parliament eventually or the Commission paid for this art, I just want to draw attention that it's really a waste of money. If it isn't the Commission, if an individual has paid for this art, I suggest you buy a bag of permanent manure instead of the art of this kind of art you've been paying for. No matter what this is, it doesn't really deserve to be said about this art here at all, I think this is a bit more of a problem for the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in the Council of Ministers and, if necessary, in this direction to address the problems of the Ministry, or the Council of Ministers. I think we should also discuss maybe that kind of thing. Not to mention the fact that foreign trade and foreign trade policy mean completely different. But if you really need experts, experts in this area, who are going to suggest maybe some directions, etc., there is enough knowledge in this country, believe me, and within the framework of agricultural colleges, institutes, economic colleges, institutes, etc. which, of course, will stand at your disposal. In that sense, I appreciate that, here, if, of course, this suggestion of conclusions or most of them are in this direction to adopt these conclusions, I suggest we make them proactive. That nothing happens after six months, and after six months we talk again about acidic waters, cars, etc. And here it specifically refers to specific heads. In six months, we may have some other selective, perhaps a little more problematic branches that will require, perhaps, the engagement of the executive authorities and I also appreciate that, possibly, responsibly, as some of the debaters before me have said, I apologize, I think he was a colleague of Jašarević, that the Council of Ministers will make him responsible, etc. I draw attention to the fact that the truly possible responsibility of all of us and here, who spend time in discussions of this kind, should be precisely in the context of all of these global trends in which BiH is. Of course there will be a problem, perhaps a little more solutions to other people's problems or tossing other people's problems, and the problems we, or those problems, will all be paid here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19413	I thank the honourable representative. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You've spent your lines, unfortunately, already. _________(?) 45 [[not a microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19417	I'll try to be really brief. I will not repeat what my predecessors have said but indeed this point deserves a full one session of Parliament and I think it has arrived quite late and I would remind you that you have all sworn to agricultural production, that all those appointed in front of the party, who have sworn, are therefore proposed as experts and those who will bring well-being to agricultural production and this country. Well, if we look behind ourselves now, we'll see that none of it has any, especially if no ministry, no institution has given us any suggestions about what's wrong with the law, what's not, what's in conflict with CEFTA, what's not. And what interests us most is what will happen in four or five years when we meet somewhere on the EU threshold, when we have no more agricultural production, when our villages are deserted, when migration does its part and when there are no more visas and passports and when our farmers and youngsters catch the first trains and catch the foreign roads without a return ticket. Obviously we don't think about it. To not spend much time now, what will surely kill us is standardisation... of our agricultural producers, our products and everything that, at that time, won't be or will be such strict criteria, such conditions, that we won't have these people. We can't solve one brucellosis. We didn't let these people, who grow small cattle, solve that part. They've been waiting for one vet for a month or they're somewhere on customs crossings, they're probably better off there. And on that behalf, I suggest that the urgent Council of Ministers invite ten agricultural producers, ten companies that employ the most workers, who have the best gross turnover and companies that have paid in this budget the most money, so ask them what proposals they have and what we can solve. I agree that no laws should be passed that are in conflict with CEFTA but you remember when there was no flour, it was free trade, and yet it was forbidden for some countries to export flour, so everyone keeps it. And on that behalf, so I really support this proposal and the law and I'll vote for it. But I ask you to do this about ten companies and this part of me would like to ask the Council of Ministers, indeed, to submit a report on this issue to us. You will get all the questions and answers from these people, and behind them is an army of employees and small producers with whom they..., especially when it comes to the meat-processing industry that has dozens behind it and hundreds of agricultural producers who now have no one to sell their products to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19418	I thank the esteemed representative, Erić. The next is Honorable Representative Drago Kalabić. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19419	Here, Mr. Chairman, I'm still under the impression of this outpouring of the opposition to agricultural producers, and I haven't seen it in this way in a long time, and I think even that agricultural producers could hurt this kind of love and concern abruptly. It is known that it is not good, anything that comes suddenly and quickly so that it can cause damage. This transformation, here at SDS when the plum was officially a party drink, here's a transformation to acid water and a concern for acid water that I don't dispute is necessary. I caricate things but what I mean. We're serious people here and we have to act like one, since we have instruments to make serious decisions. And this sudden incursion of the opposition, ad hoc, at a time when these tens of millions of marks are mixed up and down, and then retreating back into their opposition chambers, somehow like this is not the most acceptable thing to me, and it's not principled. It is not possible that no proposal by the Council of Ministers has so far earned opposition support because they have acted in principle. We are the opposition and we will not support it and I respect it. And now suddenly next to the living parliamentary majority is formed in this parliament some other majority, ad hoc majority, against which I have nothing against but I don't know why things don't go to the end. If there is a majority for these things to end and make it official as Bog says and commands. I'm not going to get into the essence of this problem today because I appreciate it and I know that this is complex matter, very sensitive and we're only all agreed that there are a lot of problems here and that it takes a lot of pain, a lot of sense, mind, profession, whatever you want, in solving them. But if we're going to act in principle that there is, and for who knows what time we've said it, the Council of Ministers chosen from this Parliament, which is, in a way, in a way, to take care of these things and to do it how best they know and can do it, I'm not saying at this point that they do it, maybe, how best they know and can do it but they're the only ones who do it. I think if this is where you want to fix things, then this needs to go all the way. I don't know why, since this is big, but this isn't the only problem in the country. How is it possible for this problem to find the ad hoc majority, and for the other 99 problems, which are in the same plane or larger and smaller, then go and say let some kind of power solve and resolve it. All of this is connected, all of this is connected and it's impossible to make any shift without political stability, without a stable environment, and not to list all of those conditions that are connected and necessary to meet to make these things real and make progress. Last night I watched... the information and the news that German SIMENS had to go to the layoff of 16 thousand people and that it was believed that everything was not ideal anywhere and that everyone had their own problems that they couldn't quite easily solve from the position of government... Probably, I don't think they don't have the will, that they wouldn't solve it if they could, but obviously they have some other rules that have reached such a degree, that don't allow that kind of thinking. I'm saying again, I don't argue that there's a lot of things to do here, that there are needs to be, but I'm stressing again, this, this, this, this, uh, the Council of Ministers, this ministry or some other Council of Ministers. I don't think... I don't mind and I won't object to what Mr. Lijanović said and that there are mass arguments but also what others have said on the counter- arguments to which it is partial, and to the extent that there are no system solutions for the complete economic situation, I'm not just talking about agriculture but the economic situation in the whole of BiH. And I think that this way we would show seriousness if we wanted to help the Council of Ministers and get things to the end or... we're asking them for these solutions, and yet, my Bog, this is a political question, if we don't pass the Council of Ministers, the ruling majority, or whatever 47 you want, this exam, it's known how it is solved. In the election, someone has to pay, pay the price, if this isn't working, and if this isn't right and I don't mind. I think these people are doing it as best as they know and can and so far have that kind of trust, which doesn't mean that it's the trust of the Bianca and that in the next period they won't be asked to move in this area where it is. To what extent this is a complicated issue, you see that no one will talk about energy and no one will talk about oil, no one will say any problems lately when we talk about international agreements and Stabilisation and Association Agreements, why no one mentions the problem of oil and what's happening in the last few days. And that leads me to the story that we all have some kind of... which I also don't slow down, I think lobbying is a legitimate thing and I never want to talk about lobbying in an ugly context. It is, it is the right when it is framed in a legislative sense it becomes the right and completely normal thing no matter how the process begins. But, you see, talking about problems in agriculture, not talking about problems in the oil sector that is connected and that no one mentions what's going on in the last few days and why they're not looking for reactions, why it doesn't stop, what it's obvious, and what the public is talking about, I think it's saying that this is still a partial solution, that it's not systematic and that it can't give progress and for that reason I can't support this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19420	Thank you. Replica: Honorable representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19421	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I said yesterday at the Expansive College: it seems the opposition's problem is warning the position to work! And that seems to be the biggest problem here, when someone from the opposition suggests something, and then those from the position are offended, from what right someone to force their position to work. So, from this very discussion, it is clear how much the Council of Ministers has to do. Here, in addition to agriculture, they have other areas of work to protect domestic production, but did not propose a solution. And here we can't wait for him from the opposition to propose that solution and finish this story. About the brandy! You see, we lost this plum because they took these from us from SNSD, so we switched to water. Now they're drinking this Serbian plum, and then we'll probably drink it again and so on. But it's already protecting domestic production.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19422	It's a Okolić. He signed up for the replica. Are you signed up for replication? Well, you're the first one to sign up.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19423	It's no problem, I thought a man... wouldn't take advantage of it afterwards. Look, this discussion of his, I think, that she's got the Council of Ministers and I'm glad she's discussing it like this, especially in that 48th part because there's something behind it that they have to admit, change in their tactics... Secondly, we did not propose concrete solutions here, but we are, exactly what Mr. Kalabić said: to do so by the Council of Ministers. I'm really deeply sorry if I offended the Council of Ministers for giving them, as an MP, which is my obligation, some idea of doing something. An idea backed by facts and current current problems. So, in my conclusion, it is fine that: not that we are working, not that some informal group is doing it, not that it is doing it by the company Lijanović or Travas or some other, but rather the Council of Ministers. And I also said in the discussion that it would take money, that they would need to approve it, that they would need experts and experts to do so, not just from BiH, perhaps beyond that. and that the Council of Ministers proposes one quality – as far as it is possible to do so in such complex conditions, and I said so – platform, or strategy for protecting domestic production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19424	Thank you. Dear Representative Kalabić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19425	Here, very briefly. The SDS in RS was punished with one medieval punishment, which once existed in marriage law, which is a distance from the table and table and they are far enough from the table and from the table not to see that it is whiskey. It's not brandy anymore. But I'm not even sure you're going to get close to that table, let alone consume it in some future period with this kind of thinking, with this kind of thinking, because you don't offer solutions, you vote. I would remind you that you were part of the ad hoc parliamentary majority formed in all the votes requested by Mr Lijanović. So you don't suggest solutions here. And I've been thinking all along about the art of how Mr. Lijanović won you over for his majority, and we've had nothing to do for at least two years to get you to vote for, for at least one legal project. And I'm taking his hat off here, congratulations, I think. So you're not suggesting, you're part of a temporary parliamentary majority. I offered you, if that's a good thing, to finish your job, to find your people at the Council of Ministers who will implement this and that's a good story for me. And I'm not saying it's not a true story. But I don't think it's fair to stand in the middle of the road, mix up those little excises, the rates, you know, so get back in the quiet opposition waters. Finish the job. Come on, people, if you have most of this area that you have people who will do it better, let's finish the job right now. And that's what this is about. I didn't mention "travas," Mr. Okolić, and I don't know what your motive is to mention "travas" or do you have a problem with "travas".
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19426	Dear Representative Novaković: another replica. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19427	Well, you see, when we were in position, we made that decision in 2002, so the Council of Ministers, in which the SDS was part of the parliamentary majority, made that decision that you received on the table that talks about protecting domestic production. Here, we've offered you a solution at point 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on value added tax. Here, that's where we're offering you a solution. I invite you to be part of this parliamentary majority who will vote in favour of this law. And I think we've solved a lot right away.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19428	Thank you. Replica second: Honorable representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19429	You see, that's how we can talk. You said the right thing now, but I would remind you: at the time when you suggested what, then we didn't even have CEFTA, we didn't even have a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We as serious people can't ignore having it today. It was then that I did not list what time, and when certain measures could be applied that were in that period. But today, I said, as serious people, we have to respect these two facts, if we're serious people. If we treat this as pre-election time and as a necessary story that it goes on for a month or two ahead of the election, and it has to be a serious story. But we're gonna come, so we don't open this debate right now, because we're gonna get to that point, and I'm gonna say what I think about your proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19430	Thank you. The following has been reported for the debate, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19431	The chairman, co-workers and colleagues, I cannot be impressed that what we have so far had in the debate over this law is a good part of the issue of trying to politicise or collect some political points on a very important issue in BiH. I think we could have had a much more efficient and efficient debate but we're not, precisely because on the scene there's an attempt to politicise, as I see it, or at least in the last 12 years, as far as I'm concerned, I'm still not used to it being, roughly, the method of Parliament's work. That's why I'm just gonna say it for a little while. The problem here is clear, he's been identified. There is a CEFTA as an interest in BiH that cannot and should not be offended. So, the international agreement. There is domestic agricultural production that needs to be helped because it cannot deal with problems. And there's this law that the Council of Ministers' assessment is contrary to the international agreement. True, he has the opinion of one witch, and yet this is Parliament, 50 is not a courtroom, and to us, with all due respect for the witches, our expert is the state government, the Council of Ministers, who speaks differently from what the Council of Ministers said. And that is why I want and that is why our conclusion goes in this direction – the Minister or the Chairman of this House and let us see what extent it is possible to implement, within what time and how, without being offended by the international agreement. There are measures like this, and it's possible to find them. Here is the problem that we do not have action – here there is no Council of Ministers Chairman and Resort Minister to tell them – by those in charge. If they're not, let them say who's in charge. And our conclusion goes that way. So let's turn around to see what these measures are, how to make effective measures and how to help domestic production. Here, yesterday at my club, at our club, we were talking about this so-called. Blue gasoline. You see, someone says you need to free these taxes of oil used for vans or agricultural machines. Yeah, I agree. But when you go in, when you start talking, you see that it's a whole system, because it needs to go into the right hands, because it can't show up in BiH tomorrow 100 thousand combined and each combination spends two tons of gasoline, or oil a mile away. So these are serious things. That's why I want the minister here for that pay phone and -- he can't, he can't, before that paper. And that's the point, and that's the best way to help domestic production. This one said six months, until the new year, we said go ahead. We won't vote on this until the new year. It's a method of pressure on the Council of Ministers. Here, you offer us a solution to then declare that solution and once and for all, we end this story. Mr. Ivanković, you, you, personally now, I don't think it's a good idea for you to propose these laws. With all due respect and the rights that you have as an MP, I don't think it's good for you to do that. Because it's getting a little annoying here in Parliament and it's getting a little counterproductive. Let's all stop like Parliament and make more once, then we'll discuss the Council of Ministers if he doesn't do this, this is such a serious matter that this should also be discussed by the Council of Ministers. And that's the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19432	I would like to thank the honourable representative Džaferović. The next is distinguished representative Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19433	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the protection of domestic production is a very interesting topic, a very important topic and I argue that it is the task of every law that it is in its essence to protect domestic production. Not just to protect her, but to encourage her. However, what I think is also a very big problem in BiH is that existing solutions and mechanisms and institutions that are responsible for implementing certain laws do not do their job in a sufficiently good way and therefore we have significant gaps in insufficient protection of domestic production. There's a lot of examples. In the case of imports, lack of quality control of goods, quality and quantity. We had a case a few months ago when we imported, I don't know which company, it doesn't even matter, but traders, people do everything law and state allows, when they imported some radioactive material, or waste that was radioactive. This is a significant problem for BiH, it is a problem for the health of our people. And it's been discovered. I'm afraid that we have worse and larger 51 cases and greater failures when no work error is detected, work failure, and then some product, food or other, ends up and experiences its final consumption, and there is certainly great damage to people's health, to the safety of general, individual, etc. What developed countries are doing to protect domestic production is one another, an accent on other measures, a little more sophisticated. So these are these non-tariff barriers, quality controls, controls, I don't know, all... necessary documentation etc., then sometimes, whether necessary or unnecessary, retention etc. So it's not said it can't. Sure, but so on. We don't have that at all. So here I'm talking, here's another case, there's a brucellosis in these areas, I don't know when, a few years ago, it's never been before. So in the history of this country and beyond, there was no such disease. She showed up, and that's a big problem today. That's what this country costs, and the question is, how are we gonna handle it? I asked the Council of Ministers here a month or two ago, 'Did it review all the consequences of the harmful, etc., does there have a way and strategy to solve this problem?' I didn't get the answer, but I know it's a very big problem because I've talked to some people who are in this situation. So these are the failures that happened, whose consequences we all pay together. So, in addition to this claim of mine, there is also the existence of a decision, as far as, six years old, on measures to protect domestic production, even... excessive imports. I wonder, all of us, how many times has it taken to get something out of this here – which is a lot..., there are a lot of things, prescribed and procedures etc. - Do it by this decision. (?) No microphone turned on There is, therefore, only one request submitted and the protection done and perhaps the protection was done for some reason to assess that there was no need or yes, I will not comment further. So, six years in force of a regulation that bears exactly the same title as it is almost in Mr Ivanković's Bill proposal, however, this is not being implemented. So what colleagues were saying, predecessors, I really don't want to and won't repeat, is that the Council of Ministers is really needed but also other levels of government in BiH are dealing with this issue very seriously. I think the time has come to make one analysis, of course I'm including the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, etc. which could also be a little more up-to-date, that, and parliamentarians, every little bit is informed about the movements of foreign trade, etc. about... not only the external trade deficit, but about the structure, about trends, etc. Then, of course, the MP would have more information, so we could go with the initiatives to the Council of Ministers and some other levels of government to take action. So, I'm saying that we all have too little data together and too little data because based on quality data and good analysis of all these data, trends and trends, we can also propose quality measures to overcome this state. I think Mr. Ivanković made a mistake in one thing. I've warned him about it a few times. And that's what goes to propose a law of a very ambitious title, then about its content goes very selectively, one narrow segment of the product. I think it's the wrong approach and that it's necessary to do things more fully, comprehensively, not just partially. And that's why 52 I believe that thinking, as in the conclusions of the SDA's Club of Representatives, is not bad,...so to delay the statement of this law. But I think this still has one benefit, which is that this law has come up. I expect that all those who are called here today and invited to do their part of the job and indeed in the coming months will get one quality analysis of the situation, of course with a proposal of measures on what and how to do to make things better. And another, one absurd bit. My colleague Rajilić spoke of, again, one appearance, so that customs duties were abolished for them... even 20% etc., so one imposition. To expect a reaction... price. However, that is the problem, the price is not decreasing. And now it would be possible to conclude the following – if we had a lack of competition. Well, then, again, it should be further concluded that further liberalisation needs to be increased... However, with us, it seems to me that not all the rules that apply in some other regulated economies, some other states, apply. This fact should also be taken into account when proposing measures and procedures and steps to address this, i.e. how to fix this situation. So this is a process, it's not one decision, so it's going to solve everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19435	I thank the esteemed representative Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19436	Mr. Lozančić! A discussion or a replica, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19437	Thank you. One modest contribution to this whole day's debate. This very interesting, important, extensive, complex, complicated and, here's what epithet I still give for this topic that we're discussing today. I must say, for the good part,...provoked by the bill, not because it stands in the law, not because it is there but because this law was purely one reason to open such a broad debate. I will begin by congratulating the Proposer because he is truly brave when he enters such a serious sphere and such a complex sphere, in such complex relationships, so I would suggest one, however, I would say, palitative law, a very modest law that does not solve even the first letter in the alphabet of this overall problem. We have touched a whole series of questions here today, here through the story of this, and I have to say through the fact that a large number of MPs participated in the debate, I would say, very constructively on this very important topic called the protection of domestic production... is an indication that this home really wants to make its contribution to domestic production protection. But how do you protect it? I'm not sure this bill gives that protection. I'll say a few examples. We have here today opened, knowingly or not, a review of our commitment to sign the CEFTA Agreement because it brings what it brings, even in relations with the countries to which the agreement applies. So through this half-yearly application of this agreement, we are already questioning whether this agreement is harmful to us. I am not for us to bring agreements that are harmful to BiH, to ratify them here and to be signed by anyone. Consciously or not, we have also touched on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement which we have not yet ratified, so we have time to think, because we will be able to ratify it, that we agree, because it also brings certain things concerning this bill, so don't propose a law on the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement tomorrow, because here's already this interim agreement has brought the liberalisation of the customs regime to a significant number of goods imported from EU countries, the reduction of customs rates. And what is a key question for all of us: Is domestic production at risk? I daren't say he is or isn't, because I don't think I'm competent enough. Anyone who wants to be, see, maybe less responsible or maybe more responsible than me, can say both, and is and isn't, maybe is, maybe isn't. But here, let's say, to agree that this domestic production is compromised, then we have to answer the question of who, what and how it's threatened, we have to diagnose the condition and then offer the cure. He's offering every drug here, even though he hasn't finished high school. So, and this is for the primarius, etc., for very prominent medical experts to make known the diagnosis of drugs. So I wouldn't dare prescribe drugs for something that, here's to saying treasure, and I don't understand. If domestic production is at risk, is it threatened because we do not encourage or encourage it enough, this is how to say, or is it threatened because we have not established enough barriers for importing other agricultural products from other countries. It's a question for me, frankly again, for economic experts and for a comprehensive analysis, not for me as an individual again, to say the least. I, I can, here, think whatever I want. It is because of this, it is, probably because of one and the other, but I'd like the experts to say it, not that I say it, because I'm not an expert on it. I'm not sure we're going to help anyone in this way or agriculture, because we can pass the law both this and that. I'm thinking about the consequences of passing such a law. Who will answer for the damage such a law can cause for farmers? So, here are some colleagues that have noticed: from the debate of the proposings and the introductions, it couldn't be concluded whether it was because of the farmer or because of the fighters, is it because of this or because of what, I mean, but here, let's say it's because of the farmer. Is there anyone, today, who can tell us the benefits of passing this law other than this 150 million. If that's the only thing, then if it's the only one without an explanation, okay, we accept 150 million? Is there anyone who can tell us what the damage is, because I'm listening to someone else who's thinking differently, and they say there's potential damage? So we need to see if there's any damage. I'm not for that, again, this is a serious institution, to make decisions, and we have big questions and dilemmas like this. And Mr. Jašarević pointed out one very interesting thing. There is no dilemma that in this home, there is no dilemma, that there is will, desire, desire to do everything for protection, not only domestic agricultural production but all domestic production. The question of accountability, how to do it, the question of commitment, means whether we want to be part of European and other integrations, partly regional, here are some agreements, agreements, etc. Or we don't want to. Do we have the capacity to say we won't do that? Shall we question that? So it's all open. But I'm glad that at least through this kind of discussion, we can remember -- when, to say the least, the drums get pretty heated -- that there's a state. And I want to remind you now that the state, meaning this Parliament, the level where we are sitting here today, has the least authority in this area regarding agricultural production. And we have in this country all levels of government that have certain rights and opportunities to deal with this issue. One part of the issue of incentives or incentives is beyond our competences. So we don't have the capacity, or, here, and if we had it, we didn't use it, so in the BiH budget, we predict 100, 200, 500, or I don't know how many millions, so let's say we're going to encourage agricultural or domestic production. Some other levels have, we don't have a review of how these 54 funds are being spent, it's what some other parliaments are deciding. I have some information that a terrible part of these funds is being spent unintentionally, and I would ask a question - is someone controlling it? How do these funds go, how much do they get to agricultural producers, the ones we, like here, want to protect? So, this debate about this law or, rather speaking, this subject is certainly an indication that there is a need for all the institutions of this country, by the Council of Ministers, by the government of entities, the government of Canton, the municipalities and the municipal councils, each of them to have some of their responsibilities, to deal with this issue and to assess and assess what its possible contribution is to protect domestic production, not only agricultural but domestic production, and to see what forms are possible and which decisions will not be more harmful than useful than what we need to make here. But I would like to, indeed, and I think that this debate has contributed to the Council of Ministers and those parts where it has a co-ordination role, so there is no executive role, co-ordinates these lower levels of government, so here, and in that sense I will support this conclusion of the SDA Representatives Club. So he doesn't have to wait for 31.12. So he doesn't understand the conclusion until 31.12. It can, as far as I'm concerned, in a month, because I'm assuming there are already certain preparations, certain measures, etc. to propose measures to this parliament, but measures which will not be harmful to the BiH state and which will not be more harmful than benefits to agricultural producers and to all other citizens of this country. Thank you very much. No more reports. We have here a request from the Association of Farmers in BiH. As we have so far allowed one representative to address the name of the association, we are in the College and have now agreed to approve that one... representative should address, and then we will give the word to the representative of our respective ministry. Well, here you are, you have the opportunity, the name of the Association to address one of you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19438	I am Jeleč Sead, secretary of the Association of Farmers in BiH. I thank the chairman and chair of this House of State Parliament for the fact that I will be able to address the representatives of the state parliament. This is the second time I've had a chance to turn around. The first time was somewhere last year. I mean, listening to Mr. Representatives, I think something is changing... the power in the agricultural sector, the overall food sector. I think you hear positive tones, and I think... that finally the agricultural flossula as a priority for food production will become a real priority. It should be borne in mind that food, along with energy, is the first two global problems. So food and energy are the first two global problems, and that the UN at the highest level plead to increase food production by 50% (food production in the world) by a certain deadline. What, though, is our condition? I think you're all aware that the existing instrumentation, meaning legal, institutional and state, and entity, and cantonal, doesn't seem stimulating on agricultural production. On the contrary, he seems dimming. Here I would remind the representatives and representatives of the Council of Ministers that this pay phone, i.e. from this House, has been informed to the public that the Council of Ministers has in fact no competence for agricultural production. Measures were adopted three or four months ago, this Parliament adopted measures implementing the CEFTA Agreement. Here, we have now come, we have tried 55 to say that these measures are a list of current laws and regulations that so far have not been implemented by the Council of Ministers, i.e. other institutions of government. There was no measure to contribute, indeed, to the collapse of domestic agricultural production. The measure he tried to propose the Association of Farmers to introduce a blue diesel here has been rejected. But here, after three or four months, it is again said to the Council of Ministers that it should bring a set of measures. We also support this conclusion, but we want to point out that the Council of Ministers cannot say that it has no responsibility for agricultural production, that it cannot transfer the ball to entities. We lobby entities, we know very well the entity's answers, we know very well the capacity of the entity, we know very well which means, someone said, Mr. Chairman said that there are indications that the funds for the incentive are not intended to be spent. Both parliaments have left the overall policy of incentives to the executive government. So she gave up the arrangements of this area through laws like we have in some neighbouring countries. So, the executive authority is left with a completely non-transparent policy, a good part of the funds is being accidentally spent, the ability to control through the user-listing of these funds is disabled, all our attempts to get that listing, not to talk further about the details, but here I would warn of the fact that we are all victims of one doctrine that free trade will solve all the problems. So, even if the facts of imports don't fit into this doctrine, the team goes up for imports, or worse for these facts. We have an increase in the trade deficit for agricultural products. To not get me wrong, when I talk about free trade, I want to point out the fact that there is no free trade in the world in agricultural products. This free trade is deformed by state interventions. Agricultural producers do not meet in the world, or food producers do not meet as free actors at the world market. They meet either... with a good self-port of their governments or without it a subport. We are, our agriculture has been caught in the process. So we're far from candidate status if we could do part of the damage, because of the free trade in agricultural products, compensate for pre-accession funds and by funds, and the entity's capacity is what it is. Mr. Ljubić, the federal minister, is saying the other day, to whom he, I don't know, orders that 300 million should be allocated for agriculture in the Federation, from 50 million to 300 million. I mean, that, that, that message can't be realized, it's about at the level of some needs. And that is why we expect the Council of Ministers, we expect the MPs to accept responsibility for the situation in agriculture, accept responsibility within their responsibilities and bring a set of measures. One part of these measures is contained in this bill. I'd like to warn you here what's going on in the dairy sector. This is one of the few light points, which is proof that incentives can improve one branch, i.e. it is also proof that State intervention is the most significant production factor in agriculture, more significant than those natural resources. However, here we have today a situation for dairy producers to introduce quotas, break contracts, lower prices. This has been happening for the past month and that such a process will continue as these mechanisms now operate after the signing of this Agreement, the application of the EC Agreement, and we will have far stronger competition. And here, let's say, in this material, an analysis of foreign trade in the first quarter, which was made by the Ministry of Foreign Trogyne, this material shows that in certain areas, very significant, agriculture, we have, for example, a very large deficit, i.e. from these two countries that are potentiated in this bill – Serbia and Croatia. For example, 80% of drinks and alcohol are imported from Serbia and 56 Croatians. So, 80 percent is imported from the two countries, 70 percent of meat and fish processing, 65% of milk and milk processing. This is about dozens of millions of marks in the first quarter. Here, now ends the second quarter, the second quarter, so this analysis, for which you recommend, will be able to enrich with the situation in the first half of the year; it means, is it legal, is it contrary to international contracts? I think we've come into a situation where we need to exhaust all the mechanisms to protect these several sectors and prove to these countries, here's what the data is, that these imports from these countries directly individual segments of our very significant segments, even the most significant segments of our agricultural production... So instead of the free trade flossula, instead of free trade, in agriculture to deal with facts, it means we're not raping facts, and that rape fact -- it's been in effect for 10, 12 years. I thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19439	Thank you. The word came from the Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19440	I thank you, Chairman. I would concentrate only on our opinion on the Proposal for a Law on the application of the Agreement on the Amendment and Accession of the CEFTA. This is the third proposal over the last year related to this topic, and we have had our negative attitude in any case so far. Not a negative position on the grounds that we are against the protection of domestic production or that we are against the introduction of safeguard measures but rather against the way it is intended to be done, in fact against the introduction of the law... above which, in fact, it is subject to the international agreement, i.e. CEFTA. We don't think there's a need to propose a law like this, or to pass a law like this. So far, BiH has concluded several hundred international contracts, and has not passed any laws that would regulate the application of the contract. We have also passed a Law on the procedure for the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, which regulates the procedure for the conclusion of international contracts from initiation to ratification, as well as the manner and jurisdiction of enforcement of those contracts. In accordance with international public law, the international treaty is an obligation of the state. The state is obliged to carry out all its obligations, and those of its laws which are contrary to international contracts, are required to adapt. In this case, if we pass this law, we will certainly have international arbitration and we will likely lose. In that case, we will have to adapt our legislation to international legislation, and we will likely have financial consequences. And that's why we're warning here that this law is not going to be passed. In particular, when it comes to this proposal, the proposed text of the law requires the introduction of a full customs rate for products falling within the customs headings 02, 04, 20 and 22 and headings 1601 and 1602. In particular, this would include, according to the BiH Customs Tariff, 967 products accounting for 38.65% of the total number of agricultural products, or 9.23% of the total number of products in the customs tariff. 57 Furthermore, the proposer prejudges, without any procedure or justification, the introduction of a full customs rate for those products, thereby delegating the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the CEFTA Agreement and the domestic legislation governing this matter. Finally, the full proposal for a law is fully and formally and materially legal in collaboration with relevant domestic legislation, the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the CEFTA Agreement and other international trade rules and procedures. Our proposal is that this law is not passed, and it is up to you to make a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19441	I thank Mr. Deputy Minister. I'm closing the debate on the fifth item of the agenda. We move to the sixth point of the established agenda: Ad. Six. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Administrative Disputes (second reading) At the 31st session, the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Administrative Disputes was adopted in the first reading. The report was submitted by the relevant Constitutional Legal Commission on 4 July. The bill was adopted in the proposed text. There were no amendments to the Committee. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19443	Here, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues,...that I would not answer, the Constitutional Commission supported this law. It refers to the next two points of the agenda, but it supported this law. There were no amendments. We believe that this law should be passed and we suggest that the House adopt this law and the next two.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19444	I thank the honourable representative. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the seventh item of the established agenda: 58 Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Features of BiH – Proposer: MP Beriz Belkić (first reading) On 10 June 2008, Honored counterpart Beriz Belkić submitted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fines of BiH to the parliamentary procedure. The draft law is considered in regular procedure. The Constitutional Commission is relevant. We received the opinion of the Constitutional Committee on Constitutional Foundation and Principles on 27 June 2008. The Commission found that there was a valid constitutional basis and supported the principle of the proposed law. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the eighth point of the established agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on bottled drinking waters (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19447	I don't think the adoption of this proposal in the first reading has any constitutional restrictions, but it seems to me that in the context of the reasoning and the... entry into force so that it would be absurd to repeal the law without the adoption of the Water Regulation, and therefore I think that in the second part, it means that when there is an amendment phase, I will propose, that only first this rule must be passed, and that the abolition of the law goes eight days after the publication of this Regulation in the Official Messenger. I think it's better to have a law like this than to have no rules and not have any law on water, because it would cause chaos in this kind of market. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19448	I thank the honourable representative. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the ninth item of the agenda: 59 Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Public Roads (first reading) I have a request from Mr. Ljubić's resolute minister to move this point until he arrives, and he'll be on his way, so I suggest we move on to the 10th point of the agenda, and wait until the minister shows up, and then let's talk about this point. Do you agree? We thought we'd take a break in college at 3:00, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19450	We're on our way, we're going faster, so let's take advantage.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19451	At 3:00 means a break, and we can do 15 to 15, if you're too old, 15 to 15, so we'll take a break, and we'll move on. So we're going to the 10th point of the agenda, we're going to go back to 9. Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, with Opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget – Proposer: Representative Momčilo NovakoviNovaković On 26 May 2008, Honorable Representative Novaković delivered to the parliamentary procedure of the draft law at this point, with the request to be considered under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. At the 30th session, the House did not adopt the request, so the bill is being considered in a regular procedure. We received the opinion of the Constitutional Committee on Constitutional Foundation on 13 June 2008. The relevant Committee on Finance and Budgets requested in 13.6.2008 an extension of the deadline for submitting opinions on the principles... of the law because of the inability to deliver an opinion by 31st session. Since the honourable representative Branko Dokić submitted the draft Law amending and supplementing the VAT Act, the College of the House at the 58th session, held on 17 June, invited the legislator to make an effort within seven days to comply with his proposals and to refer a legislative proposal to the parliamentary procedure. There was no agreement between the proposings on a single bill and the procedure on the proposal for a law was continued. The relevant Financial and Budget Committee is 4. On 60 July 2008, it submitted its opinion on the Law Proposal set out in this point. The point is, as you've seen, negative. Therefore, the Commission did not accept the principles of the proposed law. We therefore have a situation to decide on the opinion of the relevant committee, in accordance with Article 107. Rules of Procedure. I remind you, if the House accepts the Opinion on the bill, it is considered rejected; if the House does not accept the Opinion, the House asks the Commission to draw up new opinions based on the new facts set by the House and within the time limit set by the House. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19453	... unanimity is not a proposal... a bill for the following reasons, because the VAT should lead fiscal policy, not social policy. We've suggested certain conclusions. First, the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly proposes... and to the Government of the RS that within the shortest period... means going to the creation of social programmes at lower levels and that the surplus funds are directed towards the social development programme, not spending... It is also... to be launched... to amend and supplement the law... in BiH, because we cannot amend this law without the consent of the Board... of the Board, and we did not have it... to the Council of Ministers in the coming period to do a detailed analysis, meaning how much this law will cost. The promoter himself said the same thing to the Commission, and when it was zero, when it was introduced that prices would not be cheap, so the bread was still for me and for whoever was socially at risk for us all would be the same price, it would increase to the gray economy. At this point in time when there are a number of factors, it means you have to think about this, and that's one detailed analysis of how much this law will cost, and that's the basic point that it would not cost anything, in order for the price to remain the same, and they would collect the other, other products that are not zero. For these reasons, the Commission unanimously opposed. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19454	I thank the esteemed representative of Bahtić. The next application was made by the esteemed Proposer Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19455	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. It's clear to me, therefore, that the fate of this law is clear. It was clear to me that the fate of this law was also the moment I gave it in the procedure as it probably was for Mr Lijanović to have a clear fate of the previous law when he put it in the procedure. Which is why, despite the fact that I knew this law had no support in Parliament, I proposed this law. You see, the key reason is pressure on the Council of Ministers to start dealing with this problem seriously. I didn't propose this law in the election campaign, this law was proposed earlier. I didn't propose it as an opposition, I proposed the same law in 2005 when I was part of the parliamentary majority. And I also didn't propose it in some pre-election campaign, so it can't be talked about the motives of this kind for proposing this law, but it can be talked about 61 pressure motives to realize the conclusions that this parliament adopted when it adopted this law in the basic text. That there is room for this law, says the Commission itself, which says the House of Representatives proposes to the government of the Federation and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that in the shortest period of time they produce and bring a quality social programme to resolve the status of the most socially endangered population in BiH. And also, this third one that speaks of a detailed analysis and an impact assessment of the introduction of differential VAT rates, etc. You see, these are the conclusions we've adopted before. I must say, the Council of Ministers has never done this analysis. There are, of course, reserves in some parts... that the Directorate for European Integration has shown, calling for a series of directives that are practically not possible to resolve this issue in this way. I have here a memo from the board of directors. The established Law on an indirect taxation system since 16.1.2006, which was sent to Parliament by reason of a law which was then proposed by the Council of Ministers, which spoke of the introduction of differentiated, i.e. zero rates on brochures, books, magazines, publications (the scientific, artistic, cultural and educational character), official journals, daily, weekly press, and in which this board said that these amendments are not contrary to EU directives. That's what the board of directors said, signed by Mr. Đoli Dikson, chairman of the board of directors. So, part of this law, if this is now looked at, or some of the items of this law seem to be contrary to EU directives, either the Management Board and its chairman have deceived the public, writing that they are not, and they are, according to the Directorate for European Integration. This one, this one, this one, here's who wants to take a look at this memo from the board of directors. Or, it's not the law that's in here, it's the pronoun. If the Council of Ministers proposes it, then there's no problem, and if the Proposer, don't God, some MP, then we have a problem and that's the opposite of EU directives. If anyone can draw another conclusion, I'd like to draw some other conclusion. I'm the one who pulled the one that fits me at this point. I hope someone can and someone will draw another conclusion. I, therefore, am also running this document, but also some other documents and suggestions, in the previous period I went with the proposal of this law. The law, after all, is the consequence of a statement or several statements, including a statement by the chairman of the Council of Ministers at the beginning of this year, when he publicly said that a zero differentiated rate would be introduced by the end of the year. That statement, 'zeroth rate', that statement was publicly meant in the media. Here I was trying to help the chairman of the Council of Ministers. If anything, remind him of that statement. A few months or so ago, in fact a few weeks ago, the Management Board also issued a statement saying that if someone wanted to change the rates or the VAT law that they had to do this six months before they started applying it, which means if we wanted to apply it from 1.1, and logically, it can't be applied because of the budget any other date, then here's the period when I was and proposed this law, so about six months ago. Why did the Management Board come out with these statements if no one is concerned with thinking about possible introduction of the rate. I guess they didn't just go out with that statement or talk about this at some level, not to say at the Council of Ministers level, or perhaps within the framework, I don't know the parliamentary majority or the board of directors. But all of these are now dilemmas that will not, I'm sure, affect the definition of this law, about this law, about the Commission's position which is negative in this case. 62 And while I am no longer reporting for discussion, the second conclusion of the Commission, the Commission's proposal is in fact the Commission's conclusion: 'that the House of Representatives requires the Directorate for indirect taxation to initiate preparatory activities on amendments and additions to the Law on the indirect taxation system' is rather unclear and it would be good to say what should be the subject of these amendments to the Law on indirect taxation. So, this law, that conclusion is general and it's supposed to give us some false hope, so here's the problem, we're not this, you know what it's like, but here's what the Management Board is going to propose some changes to us, and then we'll discuss it when we have a more serious proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19456	I thank the very serious proposer and for a very serious explanation. Next is Honorable Representative Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19457	Look, no matter what fate this law will experience today, here I am and I suppose it will not be supported, we have succeeded with the proposal of this law through point 2 of the Commission's conclusion, although Mr Novaković said that he should be a little bit different, for me he is sufficient in this form, although nothing would have bothered to be more precise, etc. Here, however, also by this commission, and by many actors and participants of the debate on this topic, there has been some knowledge that something needs to be done on this law, and from this very serious and competent committee such a serious conclusion under point 2 and I would be happy if this conclusion were realised and we would achieve success, which is that the competent authority and one who should launch an initiative to amend and supplement this law does so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19458	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19459	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I can say that, unfortunately, there was no discussion at all about agreeing to these two proposals, so Novakovic and mine, although the two of us spoke during the last session when such a conclusion was made that you mentioned and in principle agreed that we would do so. However, I expected counterpart Novaković, since I thought he was on the move, would call for such an agreement and, as for the party I belong to, there was complete agreement to do so. But aside from this, just for your information, since you started this information, I have to say that the Commission's position on finance and budget is not for the first time but for several times, when this topic is very, very discriminatory, through an attempt to interpret, capture some political points and so forth. It is obvious that the Commission is not ready to enter the measure of things, I am not going to use this time for any explanation, it will be an opportunity when this law that I have proposed is on the agenda, but bear in mind that in the EU only one country does not have a 63 differentiated rate, that is Ireland, only one, that in most countries have more different rates, that in our environment countries also have differentiated VAT rates, therefore, on the one hand. On the other hand, we have not once debated this topic but found that social programs should be made. Please tell the story there are three last years, if there's one program that has replaced what should be done this way. And on the other hand, even if this is done, there should still be social programs. Because social programs can't replace these, like this, initiatives. But I'm saying, a little bit of a really weird relationship between this finance commission on this issue, but here's further arguments and arguments that it's necessary to introduce a differentiated VAT rate I'm going to have a chance to defend when it comes to the agenda of the proposal that I've tabled.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19460	poslanik Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19461	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, without obligation to defend the Commission's views, I would like to point out that the Commission's position is very responsible and that it is not possible to get a second answer from the Commission while the legal framework setting taxes in the indirect taxation system is like this. We have tried to transfer the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board to the Fiscal Council in part. This could not have been agreed in the first step, and this is why it is one of the conclusions to see if the time has now come for such an attitude to happen in a subsequent period of one year. What I would like to say and what is not here is that it is not realistic to expect this kind of sensitive political and economic matter to be decided in this kind of parliamentary procedure, however noble the idea can be, and whatever you say would not highlight all the problems that are present in this sector. But my question here: Were we just concerned about dairy producers, so here we have brought people into the world, and today we are introducing a zero rate of value added tax for that same milk, and then we are also the only possible chance that this tax will be included in the domestic taxing system of some kind of protection and we are breaking down that last barrier!? That's why I don't think we need to worry so much, we need to put pressure on it, but we need to do it responsibly. Here, therefore, there would be room for this Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, for the Council of Ministers always, for entities with which and when we have an obligation and when we do not have to share one of these powers. So let us not think that we will be able to resolve such complex issues quickly! But opening those questions isn't often enough, what we have. Here are some feelings, and it has been objected that this period before the elections is a particularly unpleasant period, no matter what MPs do individually, and this parliamentary majority that has taken over the responsibility of the authorities. So, I would like to repeat to those who were not sufficiently involved in introducing an indirect taxation system in BiH that it was a planetary fear for BiH, that one of the most successful projects, that the differentiated rate is our goal, that it cannot be achieved in this way, and that food producers in this introduction of the indirect tax in this way have said that they finally have some foothold that the same food produced outside BiH and food produced in BiH. Let's not, so let's not forget it when we make big decisions like this. Thank you very much. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19462	Ambassador Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19463	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I will be very brief, because this debate will seem as unsuccessful as many others when it comes to the initiatives of the MPs. Here are the last, I don't know, two, three years since this law was passed, there have been five or six attempts to introduce a differentiated VAT rate, of which the SDP has been two or three times a proposer. And it's basically about a similar proposal. But here I want to say that there is therefore a great need in BiH to introduce these differentiated rates and even zero rates, because this is an experience far, far, far, more developed and stronger countries. And we have an express need. And no explanation that this is difficult to follow technically, etc., which have been predominantly dominant so far in the reasons of the rejection of such proposals, I don't think I can justify myself anymore. I can't be the reason. Nothing, nothing higher has ever happened by the Council of Ministers or the Board of Direct Taxation that as a reason for some economic, financial analysis than it has always been since the system was originally in place, it needs to be brought to life, that it needs to combat smuggling, etc. However, there is an objective difficulty here. I know that each of us is skeptical a little when the proposals for legal solutions, and especially sensitive as they are now about funding, come from MPs because it is clear that, as we are organised in this Parliament, we do not have these capacities to carry out certain economic analyses of certain legal solutions and effects of these laws. I know when we proposed a similar law that we said it would cost the country, i.e. that budget revenues would be reduced by around 270 million, but that according to what was then a trend in income growth compared to the previous year and the planned revenues so that it would be no problem for that financial stability. I, not to go any further, will be convinced therefore, in the need of passing such a law and I will only be in favour of the proposal of this law for the reasons, again, that this remains the only method of this Parliament to oblige the authorities of this country to do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19464	I don't have any more reports. Any other interested in the discussion? Huskić, Novaković. Here you go, Mr. Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19465	...that it's never too late, but I have to say, of course, thank you. But I must say that here I am a member of the Commission and I support the motives which are colleagues and promoters and all and colleagues of Križanović who carried out through the discussion, but I am convinced that we cannot achieve this goal in this way. And I think they're sure of that, too. If they're not, then that's the problem, really! Here's the question: if the newspaper is now, for example, 1 mark and we cancel VAT, will it be for those 17 or what, 15 fening, will it be lower prices? I say he won't. Will it be for bread, will it be lower price? He won't. And 65 questions are simple: who do we do all this for, right? And because I'm not convinced of achieving the goal, I can't support this law. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19466	poslanik Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19467	You see, I really have no intention of answering any questions, but I have to say that it's always the same story that we don't have that capacity and that's too bad, that's how we can't do it. Here you see, I sat down in half an hour, typed a memo from the Directorate for indirect taxation, and asked for data on the value of the fees paid by product types for what I suggested. And got an answer after two days. And he found out from the answer that VAT on milk, fruit material, seed material, flour, bread, livestock food, medicines, artificial fertilizer in the period 1.1.2007-31.12.2007. - 85,090,467,32. So does the Council of Ministers need more time to come up with this kind of data and then make some analysis based on them? If it was enough for me for two days, I believe that even if the Council of Ministers could have won, that is, for the three years that we've been shouting, on one four or five SDP proposals, on the third SDS proposal, on the second PDP proposal, that we can't go this way and how seriously we need to approach this. And then of course no one comes seriously, so this is ours that turns out to be unserious. I'm just saying there's a way if someone wants to deal with this. Unfortunately, at this point, it seems to me that budgets are more important than poor women.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19468	I've got more reported... Excuse me, Jozo, what did you want? Replic or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19469	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19470	Well, here's when Bešlagić's discussion is over.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19471	After this debate, the question arises: Is there any sense in relations between who can make a decision on VAT that Parliament has to discuss? On the other hand, if the report and the position of the Indirect Taxation Directorate cannot be applied in fact to the changed rate in the fiscal year, then it is indeed time maybe from this debate – because the PDP proposal will come about this, probably another – that the Council of Ministers based the debate in this House: it sets goals, I would say, our, our wishes that this VAT get a differentiated rate! That's why I'm saying it. I'm talking because so far there has been excise on luxury goods and so can't be done, it can't all of a sudden now the Direct Taxation Directorate has been considering introducing excises, which means anything can be done when it's right and when it's done. I'm only missing one link here, which is that the Council of Ministers can request or order a Directorate for indirect taxation to analyse the introduction of differentiated rates and all of this. If we could make a conclusion here to make it all right, 66, I think this Parliament would achieve all efficiency. But not to, not to beg, but simply to require within a month, because you really can't bring changed rates in half the fiscal year. I think that would be a very good proposal and just then Parliament would come out, here I am saying, with such a proposal and to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19472	We have more MP Križanović, supplemental.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19473	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Namely, I failed to say an argument why I would vote for such a proposal as...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19474	May I have your attention, please? JOSO
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19475	...try pressing the Council of Ministers. Here you see, we are discussing today and it is possible, let's say, to adopt today this law, a law that significantly affects, let's say, the fiscal stability of the country. Here you see neither the competent ministry nor the Council of Ministers to say: my people, it is a serious problem in the country, we are considering this situation, we will overcome, we will bring measures, something etc. So they don't see us as a serious organ at all. And so the state of the country will be as long as this parliament has, or the Council of Ministers, as long as it has such an ignoring relationship with this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19476	Mr. Dokić, MP Dokić, replica. Who?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19477	Replication or intervention any way you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19478	Replication or intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19479	It is obvious... that when this question is on the agenda that there are also vanitys, there are prejudices, from the Commission and beyond. Who suggested and who's behind it? In this context, here I am offering that any party that has MPs here join the PDP proposal or if it does not accept a complete proposal of that kind to go with its proposal. We're ready to wait for one more session, so let's sit down and get along. We're ready again to sit with the SDS, try to create a majority here and not be, how can I say, crediting it to this and that. Our citizens need it... some categories of people living below the border, allowed borders of poverty, and we're looking at 67 obviously over a long period of time. Especially since none of the only technical reasons today or in human beings exist or should not exist that a differentiated VAT rate could not be introduced.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19480	Here, this is how we... I'm really asking you to pick up on time. Here's the third time I've tried. Is it a replica, what is it? Here's the replica, Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19481	Mr. Chairman, the esteemed professor Dokić said, there is an obstacle. We need to talk about these obstacles. Therefore, there is an obstacle in this Parliament to the adoption of a law amending and supplementing the law on value added tax. And we need to make this clear to those who are discussing it – some of them were MPs in the previous meeting – therefore the Law on the Direct Taxation Administration, which clearly states that the decision on changes in the rate, among other things, the VAT rate on such a decision, requires that there be a positive opinion of the Management Board for indirect taxation. And we, in order to discuss this, should, therefore, all of us move forward or that those who speak of it launch an initiative primarily for the assessment of the constitutionality of such a law that gives greater authority, this law gives greater authority to the Management Board than it does to Parliament, therefore to the highest legislative body of our country. And secondly,... or to launch an initiative for changes, a regular procedure for amending this law in Parliament and then to discuss it, not to slow down all these issues that are really difficult and difficult for BiH social policy and all. And I want to say it is not here, we are not talking here about the budget as an instrument of elected officials to use it as a stability, the budgetary stability of all levels of government in BiH, which would certainly, among other things, be the adoption of this law and after the elimination of customs duties to a large extent, a large number of products imported from EU member states will create a problem. So, you have to put it plainly, there's an obstacle, there's an obstacle that needs to be removed, there's two ways to get rid of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19482	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 11th point of the established agenda: 68 Ad. 11. Report by the Joint Commission on the text of the BiH Fiscal Council Act You've received a report from the Joint Committee. As you have seen from the report, the Commission rejected the two amendments adopted by the House and agreed on the same text of the BiH Fiscal Council Act. I'm opening a debate on the Joint Committee's report. Dear representative Novaković, pa Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19484	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I do not know which way we are going to adopt laws in different texts in this house and in the House of Peoples in the end this joint commission comes to the text adopted by the House of Peoples or the text not adopted in this House. Whether it's a commission or not now, I'm not going to get into it, but this law is very interesting to me. Namely, let me remind my colleagues that we have adopted two amendments here. One amendment that we said that members of the Fiscal Council would not receive compensation for working in the Fiscal Council. The reasons for this are clear: people function as members of the Fiscal Council – government presidents, finance ministers, vaults, etc. And it is their job in the end to provide with their governments, to ensure the fiscal stability of this country and its parts. The second amendment we've adopted is that their budget, which is formed the way it's formed, will be controlled or at least, let's say, will be observed a little bit. We then said that BiH's chief auditor: that there is a revision of this budget in its jurisdiction. And I guess there was nothing more natural than to accept these two amendments and I have to express the satisfaction that the House of Representatives has accepted the amendments and that we have received solutions that in some ways have made a slightly different picture of this Fiscal Council. In addition to those good intentions, we also had bad consequences. Unfortunately, the House of People has exerted obvious pressure, or the members of the Commission from the House of People, have put pressure on the members of the Commission from the House of Representatives, although the principle of 'if it will not be as we wish, there will be no', and the law is necessary. And we here today have this report in which it is obvious that we will have a law where members of the Fiscal Council will receive compensation because they will meet during working hours and deal with the work they are doing in their job description. And that the budget that's being formed that way or in the way that it's supposed to be, no one will be able to control it, because there is now no institution that can control the way the funds are being spent, or, let's not use that citizens' fleet, taxpayers, etc. but what budgets, so BiH and entities have invested in this joint budget. For these reasons, we will not support the report of this committee, the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of this law. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19485	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19486	Chairman, I'll actually be very brief. I have been appointed rapporteur of the name of the Joint Commission for our home and here is Mr Novaković, who has already said everything, commented and I am sorry if he feels a little hurt. I think that we, by our work in the committee of directors, but also at the plenary session... gave meaning to his amendments, we adopted them. However, the situation during the work of the Joint Committee was not exactly what Momo described, but it was a little bit like that. So, we have assessed, however, that it is good that we have this law, that the law is necessary, and that these amendments were not crucial, that they are not crucial to the law, what the law is carrying and what is its basic meaning. And about whether these fees will be or not, I don't think it's quite certain that they're going to be. So we can track it, and then if there's any need... it's possible to comment on that, too. So, I have nothing else to say except that we have reached an agreement which, in the light of this report, is written and I suggest, of course, that we accept this report as... (to be accepted by the House of Peoples) will be adopted and adopted 'The Law on the Fiscal Council'.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19487	No more reports. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Moving to the 12th point of the established agenda: Ad. 12. Annual Information and Security Policy Platform – applicant: BiH Presidency On 11 June 2008, the BiH presidency provided Parliament with the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform approved by the Bureau at its 39th session on 4 June 2008 and addressed the Parliamentary Assembly for adoption. A Joint Security and Intelligence Commission to monitor the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency is relevant to consider this platform. You received a report from the relevant committee on 8 July. The commission proposes to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples to adopt the Annual Platform in the proposed text. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. There's been reports. Dear Representative Martin Raguž. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19489	I will briefly and I think this is a very important document, because if we start from a situation of a few years ago when we didn't have these instruments as a state at all and when an institutional structure is being created for the management of these very important jobs that should result in security for this country for all its people and good, I don't think we should formally approach... confirm these documents as is the most common case, and I think this platform should be accompanied, if nothing, by once the assessment and judgment of our Joint Commission, to the extent that these priorities are achieved truly in practice through the activity of the Intelligence and Security Agency. I'm just going to quote here item 7 of the most important chapter where the Agency's priorities are actually determined. He says: Disabling intelligence activities by foreign countries and institutions that seek to pressure and influence the creation of political, economic and other processes in BiH with the aim of achieving foreign negative influences on political, economic, defence, security, financial, media structures in BiH. – my colleague Džaferović... feels the message I want to say, we do know each other for a long time, and I thank him – occasionally, he says, the evaluations and analyses on the protection of confidential data, the threat of institutions and individuals' facilities point to the need to upgrade protective measures. I don't know if we've ever had one judgment to satisfy this agency? And here I am not going to be the one to challenge this platform, it's the correct document in principle, but I don't think this is even close yet. What Parliament should do as a supervisory authority over all these security issues – I expect from Mr President of this Commission one principled assessment and the need to discuss this issue through a specific agenda point: 'The report on work and the state of real security'. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19490	Thank you. And the next one was signed up by Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19491	The chairman didn't see that I answered, so then he left it to you from the court, Mr. Raguž. I feel the need to really need to say a few words about this so that colleagues and colleagues, i.e. fellow Members and fellow Members, who may not be fully familiar with this, will have some knowledge and will be easier to identify today why we should vote on our proposal for this Annual Platform. In fact, this platform is foreseen to be working on an annual level, such as by all criteria and standards of the EU and other countries, because this problem is changing year by year and cannot be brought on a multi-annual basis but brought on an annual basis. That's how it is with us law and order and whether we want it or not, it has to be done on an annual basis. But for those of you who don't know, I'm just saying that we don't have a platform for 2008 until today, we don't have a platform for 2007 and we don't have a platform, gentlemen dear MPs, for 2006 and that this policy has been implemented on this platform since 2005. I am extremely sorry that last time we flew quickly through the reports of committees of our joint and other parliamentary committees where 71 I came to the conclusion that the only one of these committees had held back and called all those who had not done their job on this matter. And now I'm going to tell you what's been done by this committee to come at least today, when it's been half a year, to this platform that's due for 2008. We reacted in time and officially, meaning officially protocolally, according to the Council of Ministers and according to the Presidency to deliver a platform for last year. Of course they didn't pay attention to it, they deafened themselves, and we didn't get it. Then we sent a warning in which we asked the Council of Ministers as a promoter of this platform to do this platform on time and deliver it to the Presidency so that the Bureau could confirm it and deliver it to us in parliamentary procedure as far as September. And why am I saying that? We've been on this committee discussing this platform and we've come to the conclusion that this platform really has its own drawbacks. She's got good things and she's got more good things than defiance. However, in order for these shortcomings to be eliminated, the procedure is as follows: it should be done in the amendment phase and we would probably lose all summer and come to this platform somewhere in the ninth, I don't believe in the ninth, but in the tenth month which would be absurd and which would be completely ridiculous. And that is why this committee has also defined itself to, in addition to these certain shortcomings, and taking into account what is positive in this platform and to be able to fit into what we have committed to the EU by signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and then by signing an agreement with NATO on the protection of data and other European and Euro-Atlantic principles, it can satisfy and be better at all than none. And that is why we have proposed to the Parliamentary Assembly that we now adopt this platform as it is, with the support of these conclusions where we have been explicit and said, and to confirm this by Parliament's conclusions that the Council of Ministers in time for 2009 is in time to deliver it to the Presidency, and that the Presidency is the furthest in September to deliver it to the parliamentary procedure so that we, together with you, could act as an amendment and, as is the order and custom, adopt the platform for 2009 until 31.12. this year. Any adoption in the following year, because it would be the adoption of the same as next year's budget for 2009 and then it would have to work on the old budget for the first quarter, etc. That's why our proposal, with this explanation, if you agree, is that we support this platform today and it's better than none, and it's not bad enough that it's going to hurt something with these jobs that she's supposed to be treating here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19492	No more reported on this agenda item. I'm closing the debate. Coming through, we're still going to end the debate on the 13th item of the agenda: Ad. 13. Annual report by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2007 5 June 2008 The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH submitted a report on work for 2007. The report was discussed by the Constitutional Commission. We received the opinion of the 72th Commission on 27 June. The Commission has received the report from this point on what it proposes to this home. I'm opening a debate. Dear representative Snježana Rajilić, then the distinguished representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19494	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have first one remark concerning the letter of this report, and I had it last time and apparently the people who wrote this report didn't take care of it. This report is on Latin, my letter is Cyrillic, and I'm asking for a Cyrillic report and I think it's okay, and it's my right, and I don't think it's right to read this report last year that the one I addressed didn't respect the fact that we have the need and legal opportunity to get the texts we're reading on the letter we're looking for. It's about that note about the letter. As far as this report is concerned, I think he's quite large, that he's included almost everything that's been going on at the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, I think he's abounding with a large number of data and that he's given one opportunity for a very, very, very broad debate. However, here I will base myself only on three or four segments of this report, and the first one on which I will base myself is what probably all of us MPs when we come to their offices, I must say that there are MP offices in the RS, we meet before we enter it, so, at the door itself, and these are old court disputes. These old court disputes are in great length, i.e. a lot of pressure on the courts, here I am, looking at the 88th page, seeing that it is somewhere almost 1,000,900 objects that are spinning here from 1.1.2008, that is one huge number of cases and I think it is necessary to take appropriate action to reduce this number of cases. Of course, to relieve the courts so that we can work more easily and faster on new cases, but what is most important, because we are here on behalf of the citizens, to allow citizens to have a fair trial in time, so that we do not come into the situation to say -- here is the reform of the judiciary, everything works much better -- but here we come to the situation that this huge number of cases are burying our courts. I've been considering this by segments... of which the items, which the type of case is concerned, have come to the knowledge that it is mainly in the majority of cases relating to municipal services, i.e. to the non-discrimination of municipal services, probably by citizens, and by our businesses. It's almost 1,000,200 objects, which is very, very much. Of course, in the conclusions that I'm going to suggest, I've proposed one of the ways in which, let me say, I can solve this situation and I suggest in that conclusion, and then I'll read it later that within six months, the High Court and Prosecutorial Council will contact us to tell us what he's done in this regard. The same thing that I was, of course, looking at this report, very much looking around, thinking about the staff that work in courts, and I came to the realization that one part of these personnel was leaving the courts, because two years or three years ago when we first brought to entity levels the Law on Judges and Prosecutors' Salaries, these were huge salaries and maltenes, we had a revolution about it. However, it seems to me now that these are no longer such high wages and that may be the reason for these people to leave. But it also seems to me that a small number of people who work in courts and that, that is, the judge and the prosecutors, means them specifically, and that is the problem that needs to be solved. Of course, I know you can't just increase the number of judges and prosecutors, but here I am proposing, given that there are expert court associates and that in one place, I think I saw 26 missing them and that they can, of course, expand that structure, or increase the number, I have suggested 73 to go to the reception of trainees and expert associates in courts to mean the sooner these problems are solved. Of course, this report includes what Jovičić was saying, which is national representation. He keeps asking the question: "What is national representation in BiH institutions?" It is not decidently stated here what national representation is in certain courts, etc. but it has been said that there are certain problems with the national representation of judges and prosecutors, mainly based on their economic status, which means, and we are all aware that a larger number of judges and prosecutors, especially in the border area between the Federation of BiH and RS, travels from one entity to another, and perhaps even someone from Sarajevo and Banja Luka. But they don't have the right to certain security of their stay, so the absence from home over 60 km, so here I suggest that this problem be solved by making 'The Law on the Salaries of Judges and Prosecutors', we know that we've exempt them from that salary law we've been working here for other BiH institutions employees. Of course, what is most painful, I left at the end, and it concerns the work of the BiH Court of Justice on war crimes. Please, it's page 39th and 40th and there's text one thirty sentences. For me, this is not enough, it's a little irresponsible. Because all arrests in connection with crime, corruption or any other area have been followed by media. But there were also arrests in war crimes cases. I come from a very small place and I meet people who meet me on the street and say my name and last name, it doesn't matter how they call me, "What happens, how does someone get arrested out of this town all the time, and what about the crimes in Krajina?" And then I say, "Here, there's gonna be a turn, there's this BiH Court, there's the D.A., it's gonna go, etc. However, I must really be honest and say that a large number of RS citizens believe these two institutions are doing some obstructions on the conduct, or on the processing of war crimes cases. I know that these and the big words I said and that someone will take it personally, someone will say it nationalistic, it's like this, but we must all be aware and say that a very small number of people from the other two, or from one people has been prosecuted recently before the Court of BiH. I don't think it's personally good for the whole of BiH and the reconciliation process that's trying to achieve here, and it's not good for this institution either, which I once said about BHT1 that one part of BiH doesn't accept as its own. This, in particular, can be opened today – I think that Glas is Serbian – a newspaper and read there a lady from Mrkonjic City who seeks the condemnation of the people who committed a crime in the area of Mrkonjic City and there says: "Eight years ago, an institution that deals with co-operation with the court in The Hague and the Government of RS has delivered the case to The Hague tribunal, and the same court took the case to the BiH Court of Justice two years ago, i.e. to the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and to this day there is no prosecution." There are no reports, you know, no mention of anything going to be done in the process of these war crimes. For me, every evildoer who has committed any crime is the same, and I do not share it in the people, nor in the folk, nor in the religion, nor in the color of the skin, nor in any other way, but in what they have done. Since I come from a border town where it's '95. The same crime that no one has ever been responsible for and that this case is also sent to the appropriate address and that there is no processing, then people are wondering: in one place 40 people are killed and there is no processing, and the other they can't, of course, the victim and every victim is large, they can't be spoken by number, and there's no need for me to say it here now, but here in a smaller volume in another place and that, another place is being processed, and these few, here are the two I've listed, not at all. Therefore, I have also proposed a fourth conclusion, which concerns, of course, the need for a fair trial, i.e. a fair approach to the Court of Justice for all BiH citizens, and in view of all this, I have proposed 74 that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council present to the BiH Parliament within 60 days a strategy for resolving these cases. I will now read these four conclusions that go on behalf of the SNSD Club, of course, ask MPs to support them. You got them on the bench, but here's another one. 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council to further direction of judicial reform aimed at issues of urgency in all courts and prosecutors at all levels of government, taking particular care of cases from earlier years. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to report within six months on what has been done in this direction. 2. It is asked by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to ensure the staffing of courts and prosecutors, by opening up the possibility for the reception of trainees and expert associates to create its own chamber for the fill of courts and prosecutors. 3. It is up to the Council of Ministers to propose, within the prescribed deadline of 60 days, amendments and additions to the Law on the salaries of judges and prosecutors that will enable the security of quality judicial and prosecutorial staff, and a better national structure... within these institutions. 4. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly is asking the High Court and Prosecutorial Council that all citizens in front of BiH courts have the same treatment, especially when it comes to war crimes trials. It is also asked by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to propose to the BiH Parliament within 60 days a war crimes resolution strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19495	I thank the distinguished Mrs. Rajilić. Since we were too ambitious to think that it would be a great deal of interest for the MPs on this agenda point, so I unwarrantedly announced that we would conclude this point, but we won't, so we announced earlier that we'd give a break and we're now giving a break by 4:00 for lunch, but please be exact at 4:00.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19496	Yes, there are five, six reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19497	There's more. [[PAUZA]] Dear Representative Rifat Dolić has been reported for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19499	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, 75 The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is a roof regulatory body in several segments of the BiH judicial system as one of the pillars of the state on which BiH rests and hence the importance of such a report arises. This 2007 report on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council deserves praise on my part and is at the level of the institution's role and importance for the BiH state. Of course, commendations refer to the report, not to the situation in this area. In particular, it is commendable for the transparency with which the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council comes out and communicates with citizens and Parliament, presenting a real state of mind and making recommendations to address the observed shortcomings in each segment. The reform of the judiciary is a dynamic and continuous process and I look forward to knowing that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has a vision about it and gives concrete recommendations about it. I express satisfaction with the presentation of the situation and recommendations in the section concerning disciplinary proceedings and disciplinary sanctioning of judges and prosecutors. This is an effective way for citizens to tell the institution that... still has an inappropriate number. At the citizens' request in 2007 on several occasions, I referred complaints to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council on the work of the judges, and a professional reaction followed. I welcome the recommendations and intentions of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council that professional and ethical standards in the judiciary draw closer to citizens through brochures, information funds and others, as citizens are the best controllers of professional and moral work of judges and prosecutors. My complete recommendation to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council refers to the Court of Justice in the Great Claudium. This court has for years been camped with insufficient numbers of necessary judges. bremenit is with several affairs with judges and is now preparing to return those judges who have not received a positive rating in certification, and on the other hand several judges do not pass the appointment without an explanation behind which the political past is clearly hidden. I am not going to present my concrete opinions and assessments on this so it doesn't get misunderstood, but I am drawing attention and making recommendations to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council that they become more actively involved in the municipal court's problem in the Great Cladusa. That it is necessary, says the number of unsolved criminal reports, the number of executives, the number of extraparate reports and the number of ZK cases at the end of 2007 is higher compared to the end of 2006. In the end, as the report made a lot of recommendations from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council towards improving the situation and removing the perceived negativity, I therefore propose that this House support these recommendations from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and adopt the following conclusion: The BiH Justice Ministry is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers in co-operation with entity ministries and other BiH institutions to initiate amendments and additions to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19500	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19501	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. 76 My colleagues and fellow Members and guests, I will briefly read to you in my address on the issue of the Annual Report 2007 of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH truly express my satisfaction that I have in my hands, I have had the opportunity to read a document that really covers a complete segment of the area covered by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, from which the situation in this area can be seen, from which certain proposals of measures can be seen to be better, from which they can be seen that after four years, that this institution has mostly responded to its task and that in their further development is a successful work, that it can be said with the satisfaction that the conclusion that they are placed in the order of the leaders to reform the judiciary in the region, which BiH should be proud of what it is, in view of the commitments that in the future and BiH will be made to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement in the field of justice. And finally, what the international community has done with considerable funds from the EU, the government of the United States, Norway, Italy, Canada, the Netherlands, Sweden, Spain, has expressed the need to help this institution, and, as an MP, I also want, in addition to the High Judicial Council thanking the governments of some states, that we, as Parliament, thank the governments of those countries for allowing the establishment of a High Court and Prosecutorial Council in this capacity. So I really don't have anything special to add to this about the need to add something new or something that's been dropped. But in addition to these facts of praise, I want to point out something that my predecessors said, and about that. I have suggested a two-point conclusion, and they concern that in these 12 chapters we have, as far as I have seen, somewhere over 40, or perhaps 47 recommendations, which are proposed by... The High Court and Prosecutor's Council in this document. Among other things, these recommendations apply to all institutions in BiH, almost all institutions that have certain... contact with the affairs done by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, and because I would not read, I thought I would even read some... important recommendations concerning the Council of Ministers, something and the Government of the Federation, Brcko District, the Government of RS, the cantonal ministries of justice etc., so that it does not mean these things, I have offered that conclusion, given the large number of these recommendations: the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH is tasked with proposing recommendations to supplement and make them enforceable in terms of clear duties and deadlines for the institutions to which the recommendations apply. Because there remains a really large number of recommendations, the recommendations needed, but they will, I fear, unless clear deadlines are set, unless the institutions in charge are set to launch initiatives for these things, so they will remain at the level of the recommendations. Another thing is also related to this conclusion, meaning: The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH is tasked with delivering information on the implementation of these recommendations in its 2008 annual report. With this conclusion, I appreciate that this annual report would be complete and it would result in the adoption or adoption of this report, it would have as a consequence of certain activities of institutions in BiH so that the situation, which has been recorded as a problem of further progress, could be improved.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19502	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Džaferović. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19503	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has and discusses various types of information, work reports, annual reports and what is not yet different about this. Some he adopts, some he takes note of, some he's just considering, some he has the right to change, and I've been thinking for a while why it's really like that. ... If we are Parliament, then we realize that this is really the way it should be and that we should read our role in the law when we approach one of these reports, because it is deeply related to the principle of independence and independence of the judiciary in BiH, what has been given to us as a Parliament or any other body in BiH, and it concerns the judiciary as a capacity, or as a jurisdiction. Why am I saying this? I am saying this because very often in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly – I guess under the influence, we are all people who lived before 90 years ago, it seems to me that possible, therefore, this period – sometimes misunderstood today's role and the relationship between judicial and legislative authorities, legislative and executive authorities. I have a need for this report, and by following and discussing the discussions that were today... at Parliament and the proposals of these conclusions, I would like to say a few sentences. Let me put forward one of the practices that is within the Constitutional Legal Commission, and as far as legislative and executive relations are concerned, this is a very important thing, so this home doesn't make any mistakes and excuse me if this exhibit of mine looks like some kind of secession, it's not my intention at all. It is my intention to protect this parliament first, so that it does not fall into error and make a problem. Many BiH citizens and institutions have been hard at the constitutional commissions for a time, on you as a college, and then on us as constitutional legal commissions, with demands for what they called an authentic interpretation of the law. The law is passed by Parliament, but is exercised by the executive power. They have institutions that are in charge of executing authorities, laws, courts, of course Parliament does not enforce the law. But very often, to bypass the law enforcement and enforcement bodies, according to the Constitutional Legal Commission, the question was that under the company of authentic interpretation of the law to answer the question of practical application of the law. We then realized that we could fall into a trap and that we too could begin as legislators to apply practically this law, and then in society comes total confusion. And of course, we avoided that thing and came to the point that we felt it was necessary to edit the procedures of authentic interpretation of the law in a different way and give appropriate suggestions to our Interresor task force that should do it. It's the same thing when it comes to the judiciary. So it's very dangerous if we, in any segment, and in the segment of the review of the annual report, are in a position to get involved in something that isn't our job. That earlier example of the Constitutional Commission and the practical application of the law, I have merely cited as an example of the dawn, which I have experienced working in this mandate in the Constitutional Commission, and therefore I think that we need our role when it comes to this report to illustrate what our role really is. I, the role of Parliament when it comes to the judiciary, when it comes to the judiciary in BiH, and the work of the regulators of the independence of the judiciary, which is called the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, is well defined in the previous discussion, I see that we receive an annual report, that we say all we have to say about it, that people who are following Parliament's work and who have submitted this report, not only to us but also to other institutions in BiH, and that, of course, they later see what is useful, what they can, what they can't, what they need or what they don't need to adopt. 78 I do not see our role as the role of the bodies that will draw conclusions and commit the judiciary to concrete proceedings. That's one serious problem. And whoever thinks it is possible for us to draw conclusions and that we make our own, we make the law, and we say by law: you are independent, you are independent, go ahead, do according to the law! We can give them suggestions about their report. That's why we don't adopt their report, but we take it into consideration. And I call on Parliament to consider this matter well. This idea may not go away in Parliament today, but I am happy because I have the opportunity to tell her and test her with the general public, not just here in Parliament. I think that Parliament, or any other body, cannot commit to its decisions the bodies which are in the exercise of power independently, concerning their competences and their competences. And here it doesn't end. The thing here is actually complicated. This is a small part of the problem. Most of the problem is the relationship between the Ministry of Justice and the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, not to mention now the relationship between the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council – courts and prosecutors in performing their judicial and prosecutorial functions. If we go back to that dimension, then it's over, it's complicated, and I've just pointed this out as one thing that we need to take care of here. If I were to speak now about this report by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, the Constitutional Commission has considered it, we have assessed it with a very solid report, a report, what it should be like to come before the BiH Parliament, hence a seriously important report, and, if I should look back on something, there is a lot of it, and I will only say one thing when it comes to this report: that I am glad that in one segment of the BiH government, at least I am trying to implement the decision of the court on the constitutionality, that is, the equality of the people in the entire BiH territory. This is evident from the ethnic structure of elected judges and prosecutors, and if my voice can mean anything to my message, then it is: continue to do so, to apply the decision in relation to the 1991 census, because it is such an important thing when it comes to the equality of the people and everything that is bound to it. It is one of the most important things that this reform has brought for me and God Bog it is in other segments of the Bosnian Herzegovina society. When it comes to some of my views on the future, reforms, I think there are several priorities in BiH. I've spoken of them several times in public. First, I think that we should put the judiciary in an adequate position in the BiH Constitution and that this should be the subject of future constitutional reform in BiH. Another thing I think should be done in BiH when it comes to the judiciary: to establish the Supreme Court of BiH. We probably don't get along here in this House, and I know it. But that I should, I want to say it publicly, because the existing situation in BiH will not be able to withstand any serious criticism in the future when it comes to equality in the protection of human freedoms and rights. BiH will be asked to do so, I know what it means and I say, as my colleague Martin Raguž would say, I am responsible for telling you that it will not be possible to do without forming the Supreme Court of BiH. The very serious issue that will be raised before us, in my opinion, is in the future about the principle of independence again, because the principle of independence requires a single and independent budgeting of the BiH judiciary system. It will be a topic we're just going to be dealing with in BiH, and I want to say it here today for this report. It will not be able to withstand practice or criticise partial judicial legislation, it will have to be unified in BiH. We don't have it uncertified today, we have it harmonised. It's one degree... by which and a serious problem which is why we look at courts and prosecutors, especially courts, with some other dioptria where there are a large number of cases, and in fact these are cases concerning why the judiciary is least responsible. The whole system has to try to resolve the issue of municipal cases that today account for 90% of practically lag behind in the work of courts. 79 This is my opinion on the types of reports and the attitude of Parliament towards it, my opinion on the report on work and my view of the future of the judicial reform that I am presenting, when it comes to this report. When Wednesday's conclusions were proposed, I wouldn't comment on them. There's no need for that. But I will just say that it is totally unacceptable and contrary to the principle of independence that, let's say, Parliament obliges the Council of Ministers to analyse the recommendations of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. Sometimes despite perhaps the best intentions, things may seem strange, so let's say it's very strange when it's said to be asked by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council that all citizens in front of the BiH courts have the same treatment, which is, of course, perfectly normal: they have to have the same treatment; and then, it says, and especially when it comes to war crimes trials. This is where two treatments are suggested, as far as I can see, because this word specifically speaks about it. I hope, I suppose what the author meant by this to say and of course everyone must be equal in front of the law and all procedures, all the laws, that is, all the citizens should be equal. I hope the author here didn't want to say, when it comes to crimes, that it was some optical balance. I'm happy he didn't want to say it, because it's simple, because it's just not possible. There are suspects, there are objects, there is order and there is, there is law. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for warning me on time and for listening to me, of course. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19504	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19505	Here, I'll do it shorter so I won't give the chairman a chance to warn me on time. What I was saying on the Constitutional Commission, I'm going to say here in one sentence. Namely, this matter or this report contains a series of recommendations, which I must say would be good, means that we also have a report from the Council of Ministers or the opinion of the Council of Ministers on these recommendations. And that's the most important thing for me, so besides all this stuff that's written here in this work report, after each chapter, we have a series of recommendations. I'm not sure that we can accept these recommendations so easily today by accepting or not accepting this report we actually accept these recommendations. Does that mean they're for someone binding or not? And whether the Council of Ministers will work on these recommendations or not, that is what Mr. Nanić tried to say with his own conclusions. Here, I've taken a few examples, let's say on page 29 we have recommendations that, for example, where requested, consider the High Court and Prosecutor's Council... that it is necessary for the competent authorities to consider the possibility of introducing compensation for a separate life from the family and compensation for the accommodation of judges and prosecutors. So it would be good to now have the Council of Ministers' position on this issue because the Council of Ministers is expected to sort out these issues in some way. Or the High Court and Prosecutor's Council should have jurisdiction to propose judges to the Constitutional Court. We know, so that there is this Constitutional Court we've talked a lot about, especially in the last term, in this little bit less. 80 Then, for example, you have on page 50 of the recommendation: 'To consider the establishment of a regional governance structure that would make up the presidents of courts in the area of a canton or district that representatives of the judicial authority support such a body.' This is a serious issue of further reform in this area, and someone should say whether this recommendation is realistic or not, what it implies for itself, or whether it is viewed in this way as a dead letter on paper, i.e. writing a High Court and Prosecutorial advice that no one will seriously consider. On the side, for example, in 59, we have 'need to adopt a legal framework that will bear the costs of financing all judicial institutions from one source.' So, is this something that can be supported as a recommendation and what funding means from one source, this? We have, say, on page 67. 'name permanent external associates to the Supreme Courts who would work for the needs of the Centre for Judicial Documentation, including employees in Supreme Courts and Judges.' Well, I don't know, here's page 103, where you turn to these recommendations, you have very interesting recommendations that I think the Council of Ministers, first of all the Ministry of Justice, then the Council of Ministers, should give a clear opinion and deliver with this report. Let's just say, "Citizens should stop thinking that paying the bill is voluntary." And that is, which means it is a recommendation for citizens to stop thinking that paying the bill is voluntary. Watch out, it's a system. So, citizens think that way as long as they can pay. When they can't pay, they won't think like that, they'll pay. And now that I'm not going any further, I promised in the beginning that I wouldn't let the chairman warn me, which is why I think it would be good to have this material back, not to take it back today, but to bring it back, and to the Council of Ministers on these recommendations to deliver it to the House of Representatives, and that's the conclusion I suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19506	Thank you, dear colleague. The following is the registered honourable representative Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19507	Thank you very much. ... The report is motivated, there have already been many speakers and I will only now streamline what I was prepared and the thing are recommendations here, something that we all need to stick to and what, I see, we have different opinions. And if I start from the assumption that the fundamental democratic assumptions that the judiciary and the judiciary must be independent and that the aim of this reform of the judiciary is, in fact, the equality of every man before the law, it is clear that this goal cannot only be made by the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, but in that chain, legislative and executive institutions are responsible. And that's why I answered. Here we have a four-year work result, I will only have illustrations for, over 1,200 judges, prosecutors and professional associates, education centres etc., rooms, funding and donors and evaluations – leading reform leader in 81 regions. And come on, I really think this deserves congratulations on what you've done, but then you have terrible contradictions, so on page 73, I'm just going to quote, says, "The Human Welfare of the tužilaštvo," and he says, "In the period from 2004 to 2007, it left only in Canton of Sarajevo 16 prosecutors." I don't know how you can be the leading leader, and you have this exodus of key people who need to be this trigger initiating the procedure. And secondly, the most common reason is to go to other duties, technical conditions of work, security threats, lower wages, etc. Well, talk about this: I don't understand the work of the judiciary; it's the task of the Ministry of Justice, Parliament, etc. And someone needs to make that strategy how to create this ambience in which these people can work without being afraid, not for life, but for the smile of someone. And I think that Parliament really needs to think this through. And the second, second dimension is this story, we have them, two kinds of rights; one, when it comes to war crimes suspects or some other proceedings, and of course we can agree here all together that we cannot make any difference, and it is also clear here that this strategy cannot be brought only by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, but by the Council of Ministers together with this Parliament, and that strategy should oblige us to have it as soon as possible. It is our task, not to interfere with the work, but some things here must be done by Parliament, some Council of Ministers, some Ministry of Justice, some lower bodies. And these are the recommendations, there are a few dozen of them, and someone should, it is too much to comment on these recommendations, in a way that we can see what Parliament will do, in which deadlines, which the ministries, which the international community, which this, which in budgetary means, should plan, which is to change the law. I think that the Ministry of Justice should do so on the basis of this report, in cooperation with the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, and deliver them for consideration to Parliament, a review of a healthy, transparent and rational – how and how to implement a part of these recommendations, with the aim of continuing this successful reform, to give support and that this country really builds this most important role of any government as Bog commands and how it suits, and not as... Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19508	Thank you. The next is a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović. Replica, I apologize. Replica has a respected representative, Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19509	I won't be in debt, Mr. President, and my colleagues and colleagues, but I will still present my opinion on the presentation of two of my predecessors. If an institution is created, whether by the judicial authority or by the executive authority or by the legislative authority, does not matter, I personally think that if people who work in those institutions see that there are certain defects in the work of the system as a whole, then of course they have not only the possibility but they and must propose recommendations to fix it in the system. And I think this report would be incomplete if it didn't have these recommendations. And now the thing is, the recommendation itself says that it is recommended to someone who is competent to consider these processes and, when he thinks about it, he will learn whether there is a recommendation, whether it is justified, whether it should be changed, whether it should be built up. And so I see no reason why this report is coming back or just because it has a recommendation in it. That's my point of view. I personally believe and would be happy if each report had made certain recommendations to improve the work of all institutions participating in one chain, let's say, the authorities of any, legislative, executive or judicial, because 82 makes it easier for other institutions to see certain changes and, if necessary, these changes should change. And in the end, I have to say, regardless of the opinion of many, this reform has certainly succeeded well and progressed well, and if necessary, here I will now say, for our body, means the legislative authority that it should do and comb all certain laws, which, by my court,... are unarranged, generate certain, certain changes in society that are not desirable. So I support the recommendation anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19510	Thank you. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19511	Thank you, Chairman. When I got this report, I thought, here, I'd finally get an answer in this report to questions that I asked the High Court and Prosecutor's Council about a year ago and I never got an answer to. And already on several occasions there have been questions raised in the reports, outstanding questions addressed to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and here I hope that even today, if there is an address from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, there may be an opportunity to get it orally; if not in normal procedure, the oral answer to the asked question. In fact, I'll just remind you that a year ago I asked questions that well referred to the age structure of the appointed judges and the question that concerned, among other things, why the judges retire from, say, 65 years of age, such as the provisions of the law governing that matter in both entities of obligation, including all institutions, or bodies. Namely, according to the data that I had more detailed at the time, among other things, it was noticeable that we had a judge at 67-68 and who made their own decision when he was going to retire. I can understand that somewhere there is a really deficiting staff, but I happen to know that BiH's law schools, which are by themselves numerous, every year a lot of graduate lawyers come out of these institutions, and that was the reason why I asked that question. And, on this issue, there was a question concerning the provision of the law passed by this parliament: who assesses the psychophysical capacity of judges as a legal obligation, i.e. a legal condition when electing judges. When it comes to the report itself, I immediately sought the natural answers in the titles shown. By the way, to mention that I am indeed this report, although I am not a lawyer, but this report really provides enough for all those who want to understand how far it has come, enough material, and in that sense also praise. When it comes to answering this question of mine, let's say that the age structures of the appointed judges and prosecutors, on page 26, I found only one table, without even commenting that something was problematic or that something was good, or that it was not problematic. So, among other things, I noticed that the average age, as I interpret it, is 55 years old here in the appointed judges in the Court of BiH, 58 years in the Supreme Courts in the Federation and Republika Srpska, 53, in the Prosecutor's Office of the Federation and Republika Srpska, or the Supreme Courts, I take with cantonal and district courts, which is another contribution to the very thing I was talking about, which is why I asked this question, among other things, 83 days ago. And it was really surprising for me to say in the recommendations on this area to come across the appointment of professional associates, the introduction of separate life benefits, the jurisdiction to appoint judges of the Constitutional Court, between one word in terms of corrections, how many there are, and obviously there is a need for corrections of these, to say, a little age structure when it comes to the composition of judges, or prosecutors. I will also refer to the conclusions proposed by the SDA, and I appreciate that they are precisely and in a position to make these reports a little bit and proactive, i.e. to use in terms and suggestions that the Parliamentary Assembly in some way encourage some of the activities to strengthen these institutions. In that sense, I would suggest that the recommendations – no matter what we have different opinions about them and what might be different, I appreciate that they came from those institutions that are breathing with the problems they are facing – that, among other things, these recommendations and addresses or turn into the form of an action plan, because some of the recommendations also refer to those institutions that unfortunately will not have the opportunity to discuss this report by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. In a good way, let's say, the powers to pass some laws concern both entity parliaments and, in that sense, one suggestion and a recommendation can make this a bit too much of an action plan. And another note, perhaps as a complement to these conclusions, would not be bad, given that justice reform is one of the most significant and on the way to EU membership, in some countries it has been particularly problematic, for us so far considered to be one of the most successful reforms, regardless of the reasons, perhaps even the dissatisfaction of someone, I want to mention the need to, precisely because of the specificity of BiH, carry on with the problems of the remaining cases from the period when we have been over-occupied with some other things or, for example, issues of war crimes, etc., which is not specific to some mocking countries – that we may get one piece of information in which we say this Parliamentary assembly can help to achieve this reform in the overall set of reforms on BiH's path to EU membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19512	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19513	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset of this institution when Mr. Marinko Jurčević was present, I asked him to prepare a five-year strategy for solving war crimes cases. So there's a stenogram in front of us. And for a wonderful miracle of a few more international conferences, I remind him of that, and then he keeps showing up in the media and he promises to do it. The man's gone, and now I see this strategy in some sense by forming some commissions. But I'm going to do a two-way job that's very important to me. It advocates that the judiciary be independent and first of politics, from us. But unfortunately it is independent of politicians, independent of citizens, independent of itself, but it is dependent on thieves and criminals. If these gentlemen read at least "Free Bosnia" or "Dnevni Avaz" or some leaf, they can see that four or five pages a day of thieves, criminals, this, this, that, and they do nothing. 84 Now someone's gonna say I'm putting pressure on the judiciary and the D.A.'s office. That's not true. I have always been against this House to receive any reports of knowledge, because unfortunately they will not receive knowledge when we say something to them, and that is a great contrast and I admire how well they packed, printed this book to be desired by every library in the world. They also stated that the European Commission and some non-governmental organisation have a fine opinion on them, and if they had given the kind of opinion the people have on them, that book would never have been printed. Because only they're worse than us. Only a people worse think about the prosecution and the courts than us politicians. So we can think here that we are the most beautiful, the smartest chosen, the important thing is what the people think. And the people think about the courts and the prosecution and the judiciary all the worst. But they're going to embellish the report, bomb us with statistical data, and I don't know where they found this fat paper, so they packed it up nicely. And that's where I used the book while I read this and, fortunately, I threw it away right away, because who's gonna hold this up to the rules. I like the green color, I don't mind any colors, and let them paint in any color, but don't let them paint us. So I'm going to focus on that segment or chapter of war crimes. I am never in my public statements, and especially now in Parliament or anywhere, I have not asked, I repeat, a constant balance in the amount of crimes committed. I asked for a balance in the amount of justice. Justice implies someone's guilty, and someone's a victim and one who's guilty should be given a verdict. I don't want to put pressure on this to say that they have to condemn everything from there, I don't know... 15,000 of them have been reported for three or four years. But unfortunately, you can't get information from them about the status of the object, which has been walking around some drawers for three years. Is he founded by the prosecutor, will the court prosecute, is he rejected? So I repeat again, they are independent of everyone. I'm really in favour of judicial reform, and I admire it, so we did a little bit, but I'm going to say, I'm not going to mention this report, how they have the nerve to say they've done something. We can't give them salaries, because no one mentioned them in the media, and three months if Belkić isn't there or Niko, I am sure everyone is. Just the MPs to themselves. And they're looking for some reports and separate lives and, I don't know, everything needs to be given to them. So when you will have a result, before the people, and not to make a farce there, please. For a proven criminal, you settled there and took 400,000 marks, and he robbed the state for 200 million! I don't know, really, if we're going to embellish this situation in BiH just because we're courting someone, so tonight information will show up that they've made this one such a successful reform, that I can't live without them. I keep saying, "Listen to what the people say." And now, isn't it our best indicator, I don't know who the High Court representative is, is there here, maybe, you, is it, isn't it? Isn't it your main indicator that no one in the RS trusts you? I'm against it, I'm going to say openly, that he's taking the prosecutor to Belgrade to process the cases, and it's not our turn. What you're still talking about, what kind of reports you're making, and then the trees and the stones in the media how Belgrade can judge, how Serbia can't do BiH. Because you don't work! Now, when I tell you all this, then I'm looking for your strategy that I asked for last year. Why don't you go to Parliament and say, five years is a deadline for us to end war crimes, the most painful point of this society, this people, to come to such trust, to make peace. The question is if they'll ever come, because it's an individual act. And you're looking for, say, a hypothetical 200 prosecutors, 200 judges. Well, for this country, it's worth borrowing abroad to settle this for the people to live peacefully, not stalling for 50 years, so every new process just gets more complicated by interethnic and international conflicts, impatience. You contribute to that. 85 So, don't personally, gentlemen representatives, realize that it's on you two, now I see you two, unfortunately, someone put you in here, sent you, you're not to blame. Those who are responsible for this, and you are new, is it, President, who put you in this, man, well, I will ask you many other things. You can send us reports of knowledge, but here you'll account, not for me as a politician, but for the people, people. And this isn't a threat, this isn't a threat. This is one correct relationship for the people to say anything about you. So is there an institution with which this man, an ordinary citizen, is more dissatisfied in this country than you are. There isn't. A hundred thousand empty stairs, then there are some other organizations.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19514	Dear colleague, if I may only direct your debate, I will not interrupt you yet, but today we are discussing the Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, not the report of the courts and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19515	Okay, but here's the gentleman, that's him, the people, but there won't be a person to tell us, but welcome here to tell us what this is, as long as he's going to drive the reports crazy, and this isn't so. The people dissatisfied, here's what I'm going to do. I could talk for days. War crimes are the key to solving problems and international trust in this country. Come out once with a strategy, I keep calling you, calling you through the media, in Parliament! Here I ask you to say once – what and how will you solve? Don't make people go, I repeat that to remember, to go to Belgrade, to seek justice in America, and you exist here. And don't, I repeat, think for yourself, but you're all here in that system. Look at the paper, if you don't believe me. Everyone complains about you. The prosecutors, the judges, the judiciary, this. Take it seriously.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19516	Thank you, dear colleague. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19517	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will try very briefly to point to some of the traps that I have seen in this Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council for 2007. Namely, the coefficient of the course of the case, meaning the ratios of pending pending cases, found in the basic municipal courts carrying most of the cases and indicated on pages 167, amounts to about 122%. It is noticeable that all the referendums solve approximately the number of cases received, and that the only infringement referendum solves almost double the number of cases, on the basis of which I conclude that it is this particular report that accounts for a reduction in the number of cases in courts of 44,600 cases. This should not ignore the information found on page 168 of this report, that the limitation of the processing of 63,535 criminal and 486 criminal cases has occurred, which I consider to be very negative, and I conclude that the only source of the reduction in the number of cases is the findings of obsolescence. So, I'm afraid this is a false picture of the efficiency of the courts and the prosecution of the case is just a matter of limitations. 86 Secondly, given the previous finding that at this point the courts are close to solving the number of cases of... cases, I would refer to the way it was achieved, and I would call for the quantity of work of basic and municipal courts on the sides of 171 and 173 which on average is around 165%. I conclude: The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, with the help of the President of the Courts, has achieved such efficiency, and this is the degree of efficiency of the judges' work. Furthermore, I would like to note that the finding on the parties 135 and 164 that the inflow of the case in 2007 compared to 2006 increased by 41% in courts and 53% in primary and municipal courts. I find that the judgments of the courts do not achieve the desired effects on the citizens, because the aim is not to reduce the number of cases according to the principles of impact, or pressure the judges to work as many cases as possible, but to give their quality to citizens at the limits of appropriate civil behaviour. Furthermore, given that this report... does not provide sufficient information from the civil, administrative, business and other referendums, I will elaborate the previous thesis through data from the criminal and criminal referendum. Namely, the violation departments in the primary and municipal courts resolved 360,850 cases, as said on page 167, while in these courts there were 14,297 convictions. And most, i.e. 77% on a criminal order, by which fines may be most fined. The number of fines imposed shall be 94.105 with a total value of 18,614,457 which shall be less than 200 KM per resolution or judgment. This was found on page 168. Furthermore, the district courts, which prosecuted serious crimes, have issued 75 cases; in 75 cases fines, totalling 61,070 KM. Therefore, on average about 800 KM per judgment, as indicated on page 154. It is not clear what decisions have been taken in at least 3/4 of the infringement cases, which is at least 270,000 cases, when it is known that the fines of the basic penalty are in breach. Whether these are reproofs, warnings, etc., which can certainly have a negative effect on citizens' behaviour in violations. It is not clear which judge norm will solve the inflow of cases if the trend in the increase in the inflow continues in this year. It is characteristic that the reports of the county cantonal prosecutors have no data on acquittals, and, given that there are data on the number of these judgments in the basic and municipal courts, it cannot be determined how many higher courts make these judgments in the second instance, in order to resolve them by appeal. All of these are essential parameters for determining the quality of work of judicial function holders. The next thing I want to point out and what's here can be seen in this report from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. I'm afraid there is an anomaly in the application of Article 4. The law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, which speaks of the national structure of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. It is, in effect, the right for everyone to declare that it is what he wants, that is, how he feels. However, I am afraid that there is an abuse in the cause, not to say, of the acquisition of property benefits, or career advances; but let Goran Zlatković, the D.A.'s prosecutor in Doboj, who replaced Snježana Petković, the prosecutor of the District Prosecutor's Office in Banja Luka, pleads as Bošnjak, of course, that is her right, or Bošnjakinja, but if a few years ago when she was appointed as judge of the Basic Court in a particular municipality, she pleaded or pleaded as a Srbin or Srpkinja, then something is wrong, you know. It's an abuse of this Article 4. The High Court and Prosecution Council. That's why I want to point to 87 of this, let's say for the simplest time, an anomaly in the application of this Article 4. The High Court and Prosecution Council Act. Furthermore, it is unclear that no prosecutor in RS is Bosniak nationality. So, like in the Republic of the D.A.'s office. Next, the appointment of judges? Of course, it's your right, I don't want to get involved in this, but I'm afraid there's also one anomaly that mostly judges of older age are named from the Bošnjak order, in principle in basic, or municipal courts, which means that they can't make much progress in careers because of their age and that no trainee judge has any Bosniak nationality, which is, at the very least, whether or not one anomaly. So, here in the end, I would like to say that I will, of course, support this Annual Report, but I would like the report of this anomaly to be removed next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19518	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. So good records. The president of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, Mr. Milorad Novković, wanted to speak briefly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19519	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome you, on behalf of all members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, to visit the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, to thank you for putting the Annual Report on the agenda last year of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH and for allowing me to say something orally about this report in a few minutes. I especially thank you for the constructive discussions I've heard today in this room. I am impressed by the fact that you as MPs have read quite a lot of the report on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council for 2007. So that's a very good quality. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council was established in 2002. I would not speak in which way and how, it is known to you as MPs. Sometime since 2001, an active reform of the judicial system has been launched in BiH, especially in the legislative segment, then carried out in the humane training of judges and prosecutors and in the budget segment. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is one of the main bearers of BiH's judicial system reform. Certainly, the executive and legislative authority is also the bearer of judicial system reform in BiH. It excludes the jurisdiction of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to appoint judges and prosecutors at all levels of the courts and prosecutors in BiH and to establish the responsibility of judges and prosecutors for their work, which was done through the Disciplinary Prosecutor's Office. All other activities of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, such as budget, legislation, court urgency, the Council acts as a partner with the executive and with the legislative authority. In particular, the Council acts independently when it comes to the Code of Judges and Prosecutors' Ethics and the Education of Judges and Prosecutors through the entity's Centre for Judicial Education. 88 The Annual Report for 2007 of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council has been delivered quite substantially, largely, and is divided into 12 chapters. The report describes in detail the activities of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council that it did in 2007, but within the scope and scope of the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. We must bear in mind one fact that courts and prosecutors are independent in their work, so they are independent in their work both from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. When it comes to the prosecutor's decision, when it comes to the court's decision, at any level, it is independent of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH and I think it should be, that the courts and prosecutors in their work are independent, independent but certainly within the framework of the law. When it comes to the original jurisdiction of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, I will leave briefly with the appointment of judges and prosecutors. We heard today that in 2003, or 2004, personal changes were made to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and that the process was passed by about 1,000 judges and prosecutors. Dear Members of the Parliament, this is a very large and very responsible job done by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council in 2003 and 2004. Our estimates were that this process of naming judges and prosecutors would be well-endowed and completed in some future time. However, the process of appointing judges and prosecutors has continued for reasons why a number of judges and prosecutors have left the judge's and prosecutor's office for several reasons. I must present to you, to say, that being a judge and prosecutor is an honorable job that is very responsible, very demanding. It requires a lot of expertise, a lot of health, strength and energy. A certain number of judges and prosecutors, I consider them to be very honorable people, is not able to meet these demands, especially in this time, no power, no energy and no health to endure for a long time in court. That is why the need for a permanent appointment of judges and prosecutors arises. One of the facts that concerns us at the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and I believe that concerns you as well as the very respected, responsible people of this country, the MPs of this House: this is to face the lack of judges and prosecutors to appoint to the institutions of district courts, cantonal courts, Supreme Courts of Entity and the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. We have a particularly pronounced phenomenon lately that very few quality candidates who can perform their duties appear to compete, or apply to prosecutors. One reason is that it is very, very difficult, responsible, both intellectually and physically, business. The role of the prosecutor is not the role that was played 10 years ago but a whole other role. The prosecutor is taking part together with police in the detection of perpetrators of criminal offences, in the investigation procedure, in the procedure of dismissal, in the process of representation before courts and in the appeal procedure. We at the High Court and Prosecutor's Council in 2007, and that will be our task for the future, we have been very serious about this problem. We can't handle this on our own, we'll deal with it as partners with the legislative and executive authorities. It is necessary to extend the systematisation of trainees and co-workers in all courts and prosecutors and at all levels. That is why it is necessary in the BiH judicial system reform segment when it comes to budgeting funds. And I can tell you, to our and your satisfaction, that in the executive government with the justice ministries of entities, finance ministries and the BiH Ministry, we have built a programme and that these results are visible, and especially that they will be in the next period. This is the only way to round up the personnel security process that will come to the primary courts, partly in the prosecution, and these more experienced personnel will take place in district courts, cantonal courts, entity Supreme Courts and the BiH Court of Justice. 89 When I present this, I will immediately answer the MP Azra's question when it comes to the age of the judges we choose in district and cantonal courts. These are standards that are in our environment and in the European Community. The analysis has shown that the level of these courts of county and cantonal need sufficient experience and necessary professional and working experience, because this age structure in these courts is that result, that is also in the region and beyond. Why did the law stipulate that judges could work until the age of 70? Only because the courts in the reform process in BiH were extremely unsupervised. Update was caused by previous events that took place in these areas from 1992 to 1998-1999. until the judicial system reform process in BiH has begun. This chamber is also quite good quality when it can educate younger judges and it is similar if it is not the same situation in the region, or in European countries. In the U.S., judges work up to 72 years old. Of course, you take care of your psychophysical abilities. No judge or prosecutor has been elected to any level without medical conviction. I personally pulled out and asked for a doctor's conviction, and there when I got my doctor's credentials, I passed the psych test. So no one starts working without a doctor's conviction. In 2007, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council appointed 118 judges and 33 additional judges, 33 professional associates, international judges, prosecutors, etc. We have one phenomenon that a large number of prosecutors and judges, I have cited for which reasons, go to law school and go to a new institution, which is in these areas, and these are notaries, which are quite so popular, at least for now, at this time. And we are facing serious problems when it comes to staffing and providing enough professional personnel to carry out this reform process and to bring the courts into an up-to-date, or relatively up-to-date state. The system of work of judges and prosecutors is fully subject to responsibility by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. It seems through the Disciplinary Prosecutor's Office. I will present only one fact that in all judicial institutions – so perhaps it is a little and much more popularisation at the entrance of the judicial institution – large posters stand exactly where it is stated when a complaint against the judge, against the prosecutor, to whom, etc. Thousands of complaints come to the work of judges and prosecutors. True, most of these complaints are unfounded, more than 95% or 6%. However, in the last year, we prosecuted a number of judges and prosecutors: one judge was resolved, three judges resigned in the process of conducting a disciplinary procedure – one of the honourable MPs also mentioned the velik Kladuša – and the President of the Municipal Court in Velika Kladuša resigned in the process of trial, so that the disciplinary responsibility was strongly expressed and I do not think that in any institution in BiH territory anyone is subject to such responsibilities as judges and prosecutors. One of the reasons we did this is precisely the previous time that was, which created corruption from a certain number of judges and prosecutors, and I guarantee you that as far as corruption and bribes are concerned, it is, so I can almost say, reduced to one minimum, which is about the same as in our environment and in other modern and civilized European countries. One of the main problems that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has focused on is bringing the courts into an up-to-date state. That's where the maximum effort is being made. One number of judges and prosecutors and leaving those positions just because they don't have the strength and energy to endure it. Since the High Court and Prosecutor's Council was established...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19520	I'm asking you to close up a little bit because your time is running out. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19521	...we were in a position last year for the first time to solve the inflow of objects. For 2008, a special programme of work is being developed to update, i.e. to solve cases from earlier years. Our future definition of the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is BiH's entry into the EU. The judiciary must adapt to this and resolve the urgency of the work of courts in old cases. I expect and hope that by this time next year, we will be able to give a much more popular state of the number of cases left behind and unsolved. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19522	Thank you, thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. And in line with our earlier promise, we're going back to the 9th point of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Public Roads (first reading) Before we move on to the debate on this agenda point, I want to, look, appeal to you, so let's try to make sure we finish the session today. If we stick to the agenda, we have a shorter debate, there's an opportunity to finish, but if we don't, it's not our intention to work late tonight, so we'll interrupt the session, so we'll continue when the College sets a new term, and we'll determine during the session, so don't worry.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19524	Can we know how long we'll be working?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19525	Well, here's what I'm about to do, we're still working on, we thought by 6:00, we'd be working on it, counting on us to finish up by then, and here's what we'll try to do, but we'll make a deal and you'll be notified.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19526	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19527	Come on, let's not waste any time. Let's go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19528	So we move to the ninth point of the established agenda: 91 Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Public Roads (first reading) On 23 June 2008, the Council of Ministers submitted a proposal for a Law on Public Roads. The Commission for Transport and Communications is relevant. The Constitutional Legislative Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis on 27 June 2008. Opinion on the principles of the Transport and Communication Committee delivered on 4 July 2008. The constitutional basis and the principles of the proposed law have also been adopted. I am opening a debate on the proposal for a public road law in the first reading. Does the minister want it? He does. The word has a respected minister of transport and communication, Dr Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19530	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for delaying this item of the agenda for my absence because I was at a meeting of the leaders of the Federation's parliamentary parties with the highest officials in the Federation. A meeting that has been set up significantly earlier than this agenda has been set. So here you are today, the law we've been waiting for for years. This is the proposal for a Law on Public Roads, and I ask you today to contribute to the first reading of this law, so to speak, on the basis of your debate and the proposal to the Council and the Ministry of Materials, that the final proposal that will be submitted to you for adoption is even better. Since the chairman has already said in the introduction that the constitutional foundation, that the Constitutional Commission of Parliament has therefore established that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, I will not, therefore, be wasting your time, to appeal to the points of the Constitution which, therefore, grant the right to this Parliamentary Assembly to pass this law. With the Council of Ministers' programme and commitments from the European Partnership, our Ministry of Communication and Transport is obliged to refer the Law on Public Roads to the Council's procedure, as we have done. These obligations, hence the Ministry, the Council of Ministers and Parliament, stem from our internal needs to regulate this area as well as from our commitments towards the European Partnership. These are primarily European agreements on major international transport arteries, document of the European Commission, Transport Energy, so Transport Energy Infrastructure in Southeast Europe from October 2001, Decisions of the Pan-European Conference on Transport Corridors from Helsinki in 1997, Final Report of the HRV Group from Brussels 2005, Memorandum of Understanding for the Development of the Basic Regional Transport Network of Southeast Europe, Luxembourg, 2004 and the SETO Agreement,... Transport Observatory, so his secretariat. And of course, in the process of concluding the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, a commitment was made to adopt the Law on Public Roads at the level of the BiH state in the first half of 2006, which is why I said we have been waiting for this law for years. The subject matter of this law is regulated, therefore, and deals primarily with the classification of public roads, management, planning, construction, reconstruction, maintenance of public roads, and 92 measures to protect public roads and traffic on them, as well as the financing and supervision of public roads in BiH. Ladies and gentlemen, it may seem to some of you that it is too little, to say the state's competences in this law, others may seem to be too many, I will also tell you quite frankly: I also initially felt that the state should have a somewhat stronger degree of jurisdiction in the Law on Public Roads than it was given in this law in question, so that the first version of the law I referred to in the Council of Ministers' procedure for the 42nd session, in March of this year, contained an article which treated the establishment of a State Highway Directorate which would deal with planning, construction and management of the magistrate's roads and highways. However, the debate at the Council of Ministers and debates in BiH has convinced me that this version of the law, I say, cannot get a pass at this time in BiH for adoption, and appreciateing that this country needs a state law on public roads, following a debate on the Council of Ministers, I have formed one expert mixed committee from representatives of the state ministry and entity ministries with the task of building a draft law that will contain the necessary minimum of state competence in this area, while at the same time ensuring the passing of this law through the adoption procedure in the Council of Ministers and Parliament of BiH and I presented that version at the 50th meeting of the Council of Ministers and it was adopted at the end of May of this year and addressed to the procedure. So, instead of this directive, which was primarily planned, this law establishes 'the Public Road Agency of BiH' with the powers to harmonize technical standards, implement technical standards for road construction and maintenance, harmonize road charges, control of the application of standards and regulations, coordinate the coordination of the list of priorities of reconstruction projects, reconstruction and road construction established at entity level to present international financial institutions. Further, monitoring, preparation and production of study and transport documentation for highways on international and inter-entity corridors, preparation of a professional basis for the production of programmes, etc. Therefore, I believe that these provisions from the part-round work of this Road Agency, which is proposed to be established under this law, provide a sufficient framework for one coherent planning to build road standardisation priorities and meet BiH's needs at this point in its European Partnership and its obligations and Stabilisation and Association Agreements. I ask you, therefore, to support this law in the first reading of this law after the debate, because the alternative is the lack of law, and the lack of law means entering a potentially very chaotic situation. We are now facing a situation where individual roads change their level of transition from one entity to another. So, in one entity the same highway is highway, in another regional, which automatically affects all aspects of the use, maintenance of this road, and thus the safety of traffic. Also, we are facing separate planning of the construction of the highest-ranking roads, such as highways in entities, not to say in cantons, which can lead to one, so to speak, absurd situations in the future that certain highways end up as blind roads without saying that this approach is difficult to obtain the funds of international financial institutions. 93 Therefore, to conclude, I believe that this law offers the necessary minimum of BiH at this point that regulates this area, very important, that it offers BiH to meet the conditions on the regional plan and on a broader European plan and, of course, it will certainly come from your debate and proposals and additions and remarks that will allow us and that the Ministry and Council of Ministers will give you a final proposal that will be offered to you for adoption and to be even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19531	I thank Mr. Secretary. I'm opening a debate. There isn't? There's been reports. Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković, please. Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19532	Obviously, this approach to SDS and PDP has nothing to do with it. Others, I mean, they bother us, others bother us. You see, I will first pay attention to one part of the Minister's presentation which said he had formed an express group, and an expert and expressive group, therefore, which should have, since the text, the first text, the law, was obviously not supported by an estimate, so a group formed that made this text of the law. The group was also represented by entity ministries and ministries at BiH level. Now, you see, it is very indicative that after that from the Ministry of Traffic and Relations of the Republic of Slovenia we get a memo that disagrees almost with any member of this law. So, almost no member. At the same time, we even have the government's position, the RS government's conclusion that the law is contrary to the RS Constitution and the BiH Constitution. This will say that the vote on the constitutional basis that we had on the Constitutional Commission, and from part of the Constitutional Commission members, was contrary to the views of their political party, therefore, which clearly through the government said that this law does not have a constitutional basis. That's what I was talking about on the Constitutional Commission. But here, so there are two groups of reasons why we can't support the principles of this law. So, one group of reasons is that, according to us, the law has no constitutional basis and, of course, respecting the need, respecting the need to have this law, I think we should enter the procedure defined by the Constitution to get this law. So, not the slow need for the law, but the way we came to this law. So one group is the reasons for the political nature, and that's what I'm talking about right now. And then we could go in a row from Articles 1, 2, 4, etc. Eight, seven, nine, ten, so I don't know as long as 41st, etc. Be careful, here – yes, right now, I will speak more when we are in the second reading, if we come to another reading and we work on amendments to this law – but really very interesting that, let's say, one member of the law foresees that, on the basis of the policy and strategy of traffic development and the programme for construction, reconstruction, maintenance and protection of public roads, BiH is preparing long-term and medium-term plans for construction, reconstruction and protection of public roads. It will say that many promises about fast roads, highways, etc. After this, it will not depend on those who have given it but on some others, which could be a good alibi for not fulfilling these powerful promises made in election campaigns. What, and now that I don't list these political reasons, other groups of reasons are the reasons for some other, not the political nature or the practical nature. They are definisan in Article 10(3), says: The Programme for Construction, Reconstruction, Maintenance and Protection of Regional Local Roads 94 brings entity and canton governments to the proposal of competent ministries. It's not like we're gonna fix those local roads in the municipalities and build on an entity or canton government program, is it? And are we also going to take that right to the municipalities that they can create their own program of reconstruction of local roads? Not to talk about our paths and paths. Well, you see, it's true that if this government is in RS taking from the municipalities what it takes, then they won't be able to do it... without making roads. So, the government has an obligation to give part of the budget, meaning budget funds to municipalities, under alleged signs, given that it is with them and should not own it. Of course, they act as if they are giving, not as if they are directing. And that's true. So the municipalities are these or local communities that have plans to maintain, reconstruct, repair and create and modernise these roads. And they'll do it with as much money as they have. And they'd better work with as much money as they have, rather than depend on what government is up there, so that where local government and entity government are different, there won't be any roads. So here, this is a very important question and perhaps most important in this whole law. At a time when we talk about decentralisation, about strengthening local communities, at the same time and with one law at a time, we take everything they can and can do to local communities. Of course, and we'll do this, too, we'll act amendmentally on this. Finally, Article 41 provides for inspection supervision in the implementation of this law within the competence of the Agency. And we've seen the authority of the agency. So here we have a new body, so we have inspections, new inspections, new ministries that should now be supervised in their jurisdiction by the application of standards and regulations, and it's not said on which roads. On every road! So then monitoring the preparation of study project documentation for highways, etc., now that I am not speaking preparation of professional bases, harmonisation of technical standards etc. etc. I think there's a lot in this law that has been disputed and I'm afraid that this expert and express working group has not come to the text of a law that, as far as I'm concerned, could gain a passivity in Parliament. And I have to say, and as far as I'm concerned, if the views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry are what they delivered to us, then I'm afraid there's no passing in this House at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19533	I thank the honourable representative. Replica: Honored Representative Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19534	Here, I'll replicate. The microphone's not working! So, I'm going to replicate this part of the first that Mr. Novaković called political, and then this second professional, and in fact this first part concerned the disputed constitutional ground based on the way in which certain members of the Constitutional Commission voted, where I am a member. And if we take the constitutional basis which is defined in the reasoning of the law, and if we take the fact that the Council of Ministers is unanimous, means unanimously establishing this bill, that it was the same to the relevant committee with one vote "abstained", but there was no vote "against", and if we take the fact that it is not the general competence here by virtue of Article IV of the Constitution of BiH, but is called upon to Article III of point 1 h) and (i) where it is prescribed that the competences of BiH institutions are the establishment and functioning of 95 common and international communications means and regulation of interethnic transport, and if we take into account the powers of the Council of Ministers and of this Competent Ministry, we see that this argument cannot absolutely stand, but rather than be referred to this law. On the contrary, I think he has satisfied all the basic assumptions that are being treated in this home, of course with amendments, professional repairs and everything else, but I think that dimension of the dispute is generally not very argumentative.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19535	Thank you. Replica: Honorable representative Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19536	I thank you, Chairman. For two things, I want to correct here the wrong allegations that have been made regarding constitutional disputes. We have been given the position of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which was one of my instructions that as a member of the Transport and Communications Commission, I will refer to this law and he is clear, this commission has brought him to have constitutional grounds and he has further opened the story that follows here and so far. And the other thing here is that they have some documents that show that the government's position or some ministry is the opposite of this law. I would ask the MP that if there are these documents, whether it comes through the Parliamentary Assembly Office, that someone else gets something, someone else doesn't get it, that if it's quality, valid, etc., that all MPs get it, so let's see what it is, and not that someone has maybe the exclusive to get it directly or not know in what way. So, on those issues that I, as an MP, believe and of all of us, expect us to take a stand, I would ask that we have all the materials that are relevant for the debate on this issue, in order to bring a final view.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19537	The reply to the replica, the clarification, here is the distinguished representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19538	The materials I was talking about meant, on my own request, I asked for the government's opinions and opinions, so I got the government's opinions and attitudes. So it's not the materials that came in on some official meaning line, it's on demand, so that's why you didn't get them, I guess.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19539	Thank you. 96 I don't have any more replicas. Dear Representative Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19540	Mr. Chairman, I will be very brief on behalf of the Commission. So the Communications and Transport Commission has been discussing this law and, I would say, almost unanimously or, rather, with one abstention, it has accepted that there is a basis for the adoption of this law and that is why it is directed to you. And there was not much controversy on the Commission, by saying that in this law (contained and not recorded) there were a lot of shortcomings which could be removed in the amendment procedure. It is on behalf of the Commission. And now you will allow me, on behalf of the PDP parliamentary group, to make some views. First, with all due respect to fellow Ljubić, my successor, I could say that he was reading this law that his associates were preparing for him, but that I was walking under this law. And in that context, you will allow me to give her a proper explanation. We often have practice in this country that, here, people say, I think or we think there should be something, so let's do this thing. What comes to Parliament must not be based on the assumption of someone, so any authority must be based on the Constitution. Now, in that context, this law will have to endure some changes so... the preamble itself. But this isn't the only law that has that deficiency. Look, here in the preamble he says - based on Article IV 4.a) of the BiH Constitution, which gives the right to the Parliamentary Assembly to pass laws. That's not enough. Normally, the Parliamentary Assembly has passed laws but must be said - based on the Presidency's decisions and the Constitution. So this must follow, this must follow which is the constitutional basis. I must say that this constitutional basis is not in what we have received from the Ministry of Communications and Transport, where it is said to be point 3.h) of the establishment and operation of common and international communications devices. Let me also, as a university professor who has been in communication and who has completed this course, take the right to interpret what this means for communication devices. This isn't about transportation, this is about communications. Here, not to appeal to the authority of the professor, I will refer to the authority of the High Representative who imposed the Law on BiH Communications in 2002, which was published in "The Official Messenger of BiH" in which Article 1 of Article 1(2) says: Communications include telecommunications, broadcasting and services and the means involved. On the other hand, I should point out that there is a ministry in the Council of Ministers called the Ministry of Communications and Transport. And each of those two ministries has two sectors that are completely separate. We have on one side two sectors dealing with transport and two sectors dealing with communication, which is the other with information, information and communication technologies. So, and that best points to the fact that we can't even appeal to that constitutional basis. There is a constitutional basis for this law and it is contained in point 3i), not h, where it is said: The adoption of transport regulations among entities. Right now, let me say that even here it can be disputable, which means this regulation in transportation between entities!? And now it depends on what angle you're looking at it from. One might say, "That's, that's just a matter of transportation." And I can tell you that this House passed a few years ago the Law on International and Inter-entity Transport of Goods and Passengers. That's one aspect. But transportation means what these goods and those passengers are transported through. So here you can find this constitutional basis and he, and 97 says nicely here: making regulations. And it doesn't go into the jurisdiction of what's in this law, which is management and possession. That management and possession is fully within the authority of the entity, says the following data that is very important to point out here, in this parliament, is the Agreement between the Federation of BiH and the RS on the establishment of a joint road and public corporation as part of a transport corporation signed in 2000 by two prime ministers of the entity Mr. Edhem Bičakčić and Milorad Dodik, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, by the consignor at the Federation Dragan Čović and as a witness to Raffi Gregorijan, the first deputy high representative. So, this corporation was founded in 2000, by the way, never came to life. I'll also tell you why she didn't live, and the definitions explicitly state that the Roads Directorate, so this agreement is signed by four people, meaning the body that creates an entity or canton, quite explicitly, that will be specifically involved in designing, planning, building, maintaining and managing road infrastructure. So I won't go any further. I'm gonna have a lot of amendments on this bill and I'm not gonna bother you with that right now. When there's a chance, I'll talk about them. I just wanted to start by clarifying what kind of domain this law could move in. So, it can move in the domain of the adoption of rules on intra-BiH transport, and it is a good part and defined by this member to define what the Agency's competences are, which is also read by the minister, by the fact that there should be some other competences, I should say immediately. One of the essential competences is, for example, regulations in the field of environmental protection because when something is built, for example, in the Federation, for environmental protection, there can be more damage in RS than in the Federation and vice versa, of course. So this should be turned on. Road databases should be included, so that we can communicate at all with international representatives and the international community, traffic load databases, road accidents databases. We also have this obligation under the Traffic Safety Act, etc. So there are also elements to supplement, to be even more quality this institution is about. Secondly, there's a lot of illogicality here... at the very beginning it's said about the Law on Roads in BiH, so it's very precise there, it's absolutely standing and then it's talked about, for example. on the BiH Road Agency. I don't want to explain to you that the difference is the BiH Road Agency and BiH. All those things that are tied up, here are some spoken of by Mr. Novaković, who are related to the management. It can't be the authority of this agency and it's originally not even written where it writes its competencies. But some other members are getting through. So, we'll intervene with the amendment. And also, when it comes to inspection surveillance, there are elements that the Ministry of Communications and Transport should have, but they can only be bound by the authority of this agency, which is again, as I say, under the influence. And to not bother you any further, I say, I will, I take the obligation myself to, given that I have walked under this law to prepare at least a dozen amendments which hopefully, qualitatively, will fix this law with one more note, here again to return to the beginning of my discussion, the Communications and Transport Commission considered that there was a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. And I want to be very clear, explicit, and today one of my amendments will be that the headquarters of this agency in Banja Luka for the following reasons, just a little, let me say, I want to be very, very open and clear... It's my impression, and look, I've been working in this area right from 2000 till here and today, I've been a minister for six years, it's my impression that the Corporation isn't... 98
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19541	I beg your patience and, Mr. Dokić, time.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19542	...lived because of obstruction in the Federation, to be clear, just because the seat here is written in this agreement in Banja Luka. The space was found, the space was adjusted, secured, one Swiss company provided equipment for that space that stood there for three years and that company pulled that equipment and gave it for some other purposes, I don't know for what. So, among other things, and for principle reasons, here's the position of the PDP parliamentary group will be the headquarters in Banja Luka son of qua non. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19543	Replica: Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19544	The chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, very briefly. With no ambition to open the controversy over the translation of our Constitution and these issues, however, in the translation that we officially have and in the text that is in English, so Article 3 point i) does not talk about the adoption of regulations on inter-entity transport, but the point and) speaks of regulation of inter-entity transport. Regulation is a far broader concept than regulation. I think it's very important to mention that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19545	Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović, replica on the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19546	No, translation into Croatian, Constitution of BiH. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19547	An MP, please, please be patient or we won't bring the session to an end, Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19548	The chairman, there is no doubt in me whether this law has a constitutional basis or no constitutional basis. I'm a member of the Constitutional Commission. As far as I can read and I think I've learned something to read, and I've been here for a long time, let's say, MP, I personally don't think there's any dilemma at all whether the law has a constitutional basis or not. It is, after all, the Constitutional Commission and I have said and I would not discuss it... any more. 99 This asked me to say a few words today. Some debaters, not thinking I'm replicating them or answering them, because I don't have that ambition, because certainly this law can be improved a lot, and it can get a lot worse with the amendment. It all depends on what our goal is and what our goal is. By listening carefully to Mr. Minister, I have been caught in the ear that, if we do not have this law, we do not have access to certain funds that are very, very interesting and necessary BiH team before we all swear to... moving towards the EU and, in addition, we have already signed some Stabilisation and Association Agreement and there are certain assumptions where we have to work to get closer, whether we like it or not, in some way the EU. On the other hand, I also have to say that this law cannot possibly, in any way, reduce or slow down the development of a certain road network of local roads. A good example in the Zenic-Doboj canton where this canton passed this law on certain help to build roads in local areas is just by making a decision to make citizens participate with 25% of the funds, 25% of municipalities and canton then 50%. And I can tell you that after that, there's a colleague of mine sitting here, come on, from Tešnja, a political rival, but a man has to say what's true and what's good. He really... as Minister of Communication managed to pass this law and make us a rebirth, not in regional roads, but a rebirth safely in local roads and local environments. And I don't think it can possibly be a brake if people who work and who want and have... thinking... in one positive way that by adopting certain laws help to develop society as a whole, and thus the state as a whole, and hence the local communities, and thus also entities. The truth is that Mr. Professor said that in 2000, Edhem Bičakčić signed certain agreements and he certainly acted and the then president of the entity government acted as prime ministers of the two states, which was highly criticised at the time, because entities cannot possibly assume the role of the state and cannot, with their individual views, bring certain regulations that they gave in charge... to a higher instance, in this case the state, and in this case to this Parliament. Knowing and, among other things, by listening to Mr Ljubić, you have seen that this law has taken a lot of changes in its first form, because ministers are defined as being there and sincerely called upon to mean as a whole as a single institution, to appreciate something that has been proposed and which is not and when such a law comes out of the government, means when it is adopted when governments, it is no longer the law of a single ministry, but it is a law proposed by the government and I believe that the law will support with the full right that MPs have the right to propose certain amendments, which is not questionable that MPs whose ministers will sit in the government will support this law in their first reading, and certainly further that its path will continue. I would just like to remind us here as much as we have passed the law since we came here in this term, not counting on these previous mandates, because I don't think it can be... from me that the world doesn't start, where we've had these same debates whether the law, whether we can do it, whether we can't do it, and yet, to the satisfaction of all of us, we are such laws that have been implemented in terms of dilemmas and these laws need to be implemented and to move on. So I think that we will be able to find one, to pass one quality law that will contain all the elements that we need and satisfy, on the other hand, and all..., I would not say, ambitions, because these are not ambitions but opinions of people who are both from profession and from politics but who have the responsibility sitting here in this Parliament to bring certain things. 100 thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19549	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote: the esteemed representative Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19550	Mr. Chairman, very short. So Mr. Bičakčić and Dodik did not sign this agreement in 2000 because they acted as prime ministers of the state but because they had an obligation to the Annex IX of the Dayton Peace Agreement. This corporation is an integral part of it, and it's supposed to be founded. I would like to remind you that your member of the Presidency, here from this pay phone, once before this assembly of parliament, criticised Annex IX of the Dayton Peace Accords. I'm a responsibly telling you here, and we can do that in the amendment phase, when we say that the obstructions for this were from the Federation. The two ministers, one from the Party for BiH and one from the SDA, did not want to do the job they were supposed to do under the agreement to establish the corporation. So they didn't do it because they acted as presidents of the government of the state but did what they were supposed to do and it was supposed to be done afterwards. If it was done, we wouldn't actually need this law. The agency will also work practically under this law on those jobs that this corporation was supposed to do with this agreement, mostly. I don't say everything, but 80%. Thank you, and I won't be calling again today.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19551	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19552	I'm sorry he's not a colleague of Novakovć's here. I can say that at a time when the prime minister of the RS government was from the SDS, when the minister of traffic and ties in the RS was from the SDS, that they had two members of the commission working on this law, which will say that they were then as in this government, and this government had two members who proposed Minister Ljubić, and in my time too, this government was not only of these elections but also before. So there is a longer period of time working together on these issues. There were disagreements over individual members and definitions but by the very fact that they participated in the work suggests that they accepted that there was a basis to pass such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19553	Replication response: Honored Representative Ajanović. 101
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19554	Replicate to the professor. At that time, I was in the Federation Government and frankly, perhaps I didn't need this law that you quoted tonight, but it was an era, instead of passing laws at the state level, to pass laws with harmonisation, so it was called, says, harmonising laws at entity levels, which, in my opinion, is for the state and for entities more destructive than law-making... the law at the state level, harmonising with... There you go, that's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19555	Replica: Dear Representative Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19556	The replica and the same question. I would only ask Mr. Professor, an esteemed colleague, to tell me the year and the name of the prime minister and the minister of traffic from the SDS when it was possible to import. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19557	Did you apologize? Yes, it is. All right, we're moving on with the debates. Dear Representative Džaferović is next, then Mr Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19558	The chairman, colleagues and colleagues, everyone is talking about constitutional grounds. I thought I wouldn't speak on this subject, but here's everyone talking about constitutional grounds, so it's my turn to do something, as chairman of the Commission, say, is it. It's written that there's a constitutional basis and there's really no dilemma about it. I call on all those who have the ambition to interpret this BiH Constitution to trust the Constitutional Commission, not to try, because I have never learned that there is so-called. literally interpreting the Constitution, but here's what I saw... in practice that's what it's trying to do. The constitution is interpreted as a whole, and when something is behind it, the Constitutional Legal Commission, then that's it. What we heard from colleagues Novaković, I think it is, I told him privately while I was sitting behind a pay phone, actually trying to cook, I mean on the line of competition that will protect more from RS political parties and that's the kind of cooking. I invite you to compete who will contribute more to BiH. I think it's in the interest of both you and all of us here and once we go with that kind of... story. As for the law, you have no need, Mr. Novaković. I mean, it's so thin a state capacity and so strong an entity capacity projected by this law that, right to tell you, with me alone, it's causing a dilemma about how you're going to treat this law, for those reasons. 102 And, one more thing when it comes to seats. I think there's a vacuum coming, I think this practice should fit in. The Council of Ministers sometimes determines the headquarters, sometimes does not establish the headquarters,... and then the thing comes to Parliament and then they play various games – where it will be headquarters! It's finally time for us to once create the schedule of these institutions that we form. Why would it be only in Banja Luka and Mostar except the capital of BiH? What can't it be in Doboj, of course, what can't be in Bihac, and Zenica, and Tuzla, and in Gorazd? Please nice... let's see, so make such a schedule. It's a lot more so-called here. The money, the money in the blur, I see it, I see it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19559	Thank you. Replica: Honorable representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19560	At the first part of Mr. Džaferović's presentation: the SDS will pay by making a full contribution to BiH's construction in the past term along with you and at least you shouldn't honor the SDS for this. It's familiar to you that at least you don't get in their way. And as far as this second part is concerned, since you have put in place one practice in the work of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as far as I know that we have not reached an agreement on... constitutional basis and the Constitutional Commission did not have a single view on this issue. So this isn't what we agreed on, here. I'm speaking with the terminology that you've been using lately as one of the results of the Constitutional Commission's work.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19561	Replication response: Honorable representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19562	I don't have, Mr. Kalabić, I mean, I don't really have any ambition, no intention, I don't know how to say it, so I'm getting into these relationships and relationships there. I mean, I've said what I think about it. And when it comes to the work of the Constitutional Commission, he has been arranged by the Rules of Procedure and I ask that as a member of the Constitutional Commission and as a member of the College, you do not characterise the work of this committee which, in my opinion, and I hope, in the opinion of others, is very serious and very responsible for doing your job. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19563	Replica: Honorable representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19564	Well, you see, I don't know how many times I have to say, I guess people don't hear that no law in this House has been passed in the last eight years without being voted by the SNSD. Literally none, excluding the basic law on indirect taxation, and later all the accompanying laws were supported by the SNSD, including all those imposed by the High Representative and which the SNSD gave the legality and legitimacy. _________(?) Is that plus or minus? And, well, they didn't pay that price! We of course paid that price. In the next election, they'll pay that price, so we'll move on. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19566	Answer: Honorable representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19567	I didn't expect Mr. Novaković to replicate, but perhaps the people saw who wore a fairy tale in those processes. You were a barractarian. If someone was at the beginning of the column, it may not have been best noticed. And usually a barractory will pay for that story. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, we'll see about that, by that, in some future period, and in this period, Mr. Džaferović, I haven't even checked out any work by the Constitutional Commission. I am talking about a practice that is being introduced, because the Constitutional Commission is deciding on the Rules of Procedure. You are on several occasions, I have warned you to the Commission that this can be unprincipled and that, in some ways, we can come into a situation to interpret it, because we have said several times that we cannot achieve it, that the Constitutional Commission's decision is that we cannot achieve a single opinion. I fully agree that a decision has been made here, it has been made by most votes, but it should also apply in all other cases. If it is business, the Constitutional Commission must have a decision. Here, they have other members, and we warned that it shouldn't, because of this sort of thing, happen, because if we're going to introduce a termology that we didn't agree on, and you know what alignment I mean, then... and this term applies here that we don't have a single opinion or that we don't have a coherent view on this matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19569	I call on the club presidents to come here to the table to discuss how to proceed. 104 [[Common discussion]] For the replica, we'll discuss it later. There's no one to reply to, there's a debate. Next is the debated representative Slavko Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19571	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm going to give up some longer discussion. I reported earlier that I was responding to correct an incorrect quote in the part where Mr. Dokić spoke on behalf of the Committee for Transport and Communications. I suppose he said that he was a failure, on two occasions, when we agreed on the existence of a basis, and secondly, the explicits spoke about the existence of a constitutional basis, although there were attempts at a session of this committee to question the existence of a constitutional basis, or whether this bill was entering the area of jurisdiction, the constitutional jurisdiction of the entity. We agreed that this was not our mandate in the Committee on Transport and Communications, and that this was discussed before us, the Constitutional Commission and we turned to what we should do at the Committee on Transport and Communications, which is about the need for the adoption of this law and the principles of this law. We both agreed on each other. And that there is a need and support the principles of this law. I'm guessing this is Mr. Dokić's word for "smack." From now on, I'm giving up, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19572	The following has been reported by the esteemed representative Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19573	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I won't talk either, I won't say for long, but, uh, invited to some discussions, I think I should say a few things. First, I think this is a very important law and that... now ask whether there is a constitutional basis or not, I think that the need for it is imposed, and the constitutional basis, by my deep conviction, exists in at least three points. If we read what's written in this argument and in the preamble, that's two things. And there's one more thing. I also think that it can serve as a constitutional basis, that is Article III point 5.b). If we read it, I read it that way, I think it can be taken as a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. As far as the principle is concerned, I think we should support them today and open the possibility of this law being affected by amendments. Each of us has a reason to submit a certain kind of amendment. Some because they think he's predefined, some because he's not defined enough. I, reading this law, have watched the law of the neighbouring Republic of Croatia and can tell you my opinion that this law, meaning the Republic of Croatia, is more quality than this and I will try to install through amendments what they have installed there. I think they made the law better. But I think it's important here to say the following. What counterpart Novaković mentioned and what we have spoken in some way on the Constitutional Legal Commission, I think we should say here in 105 Parliament. Too often lately, as the only constitutional basis, this Article IV is mentioned. I don't think anyone in the Council of Ministers has the courage to write that there's another basis, so there's an explanation written, and it's not written in the preamble. And I don't see any reason for that, because what... remains, which is in the explanation, it doesn't go with the law after, so you can, who wants to read the law in one way, you can say that it's very questionable, whether you have the right to pass such a law or not. So here's to refer some kind of proposal, an initiative to actually write: what it says in the explanation, to stand in the preamble in the following projects coming from the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19574	I thank the honourable representative. No more reports. There is. Dear Representative Bešlagić, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19575	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Novaković, if you will, if you will. First of all, I believe that this law should be passed but I am a skeptic in terms of how it will win a passage in Parliament. It is simply, no, no, I was simply on the Commission who was abstaining for one simple reason why I believe that the procedures required in this House for the adoption of the law are based on whether entity governments have agreed. However, I was restrained because I felt that the law should come into practice and I thank the minister for the explanation and I believe that there is a feller here. feler is that Mr. Minister said we cannot participate in road construction funds after signing this agreement. But that's not true. We have cases that our... entity governments get loans from international institutions but the problem is that you said we could get a highway that would be a blind road. I think that these are things where we should find agreement for this Parliament to come to some law that, if nothing else, could project, project, I would say, the development of this infrastructure that BiH needs in terms of highly-ranked... On the other hand, it would be good, it would be good, and here I am suggesting to all of us that this law goes in the first reading so that we can get an amendment sequence of remarks that, here, we could go to that and get into the agreement if we need to get under that... I deeply hope Minister Ljubić with the former minister but, let's say, the entity authorities will be able to agree on a bill that could, if nothing else, project what is called building and controlling what is called high-ranking roads, i.e. highways and fast roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19576	Thank you. Are there any more reported? There isn't. I'm realizing there isn't. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. 106 Now we have reached the 14th point of the agenda, and we have concluded in the College, so we have proposed to the presidents of the clubs, or the extended college, that we stop working at this point and continue work at 11 o'clock on Monday. Since it is an interruption which, according to this proposal, would take more than 24 hours for the House to decide. Is there any need to discuss this proposal? If there isn't, I'm putting this proposal on the record. _________(?) /No microphone turned on On Monday, I said, on Monday, 2:00 p.m., an extension of the session would be in line with this proposal. So if he could do it tomorrow, we would suggest tomorrow, but here. The first term is Monday. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19579	Well, we made a deal with the club presidents.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-09-0.u19580	Please prepare to plead. Vote now! With 31 votes "yes", two "against", one "abstained", I conclude that the proposal for a conclusion on the continuation of the session has been adopted. Please be patient a little longer. For there to be no dilemma, you will not be getting new written invitations to continue the session on Monday the 14th of this month at 11.00 in this hall. Thank you very much. I'm finishing this work so far. The seat was interrupted at 6:30.
