ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1503	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you again and open the 12th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will again find that Mr Tihić has justified his absence and that all other delegates, so four from Bosniak, five from the Croatian and five from the Serb people, are present at today's session, so we have conditions that we can work. For the 12th session, I suggest the next slightly modified and updated agenda compared to the one you received in the invitation. This new proposal you got, it's divided into benches. 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 11th session of the House of Peoples; 3. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Internal Audit Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 4. Proposal for a law on sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 5. Proposal for a law establishing the Institute for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures (Second Reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 7. Proposal for a law on wine, brandy and other grape and wine products (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers Act (second reading) – Proposer of the House of Representatives; 9. Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Law (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 10. Proposal for a Bill on Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions and International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina 2008 (first reading) – Proposer House of Representatives; 11. Proposal for a law on the movement and stay of foreigners and asylum (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 2 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Affairs Act (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the House of Representatives; 14. Proposal for a law on the independent and supervisory bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 15. Proposal for a Law on the Directorate for the Coordination of Police Authorities and Police Support agencies of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 16. State Commission's report on the review of decisions on the naturalisation of foreign citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period from 1.3.2006. - 31.12.2007; 17. Proposal for a resolution on speeding up Bosnia and Herzegovina's accession process to European Union membership – legislator Adem Ibrahimpašić; 18. Proposal for a resolution on Bosnia and Herzegovina's splendor for NATO integration – Proposing delegate Ivo Miro Jović; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Long-term Strategic Partnership Agreement between the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Geneva Centre for Democratic Control of the Armed Forces; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change – Kyoto, 11 December 1997; 21. Giving consent to ratification of the basic contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Serbian Orthodox Church. This is a harmonised agenda for the College of the House of Peoples. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1505	Dear ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, representatives of the Council of Ministers, therefore allow me to express my dissatisfaction with the agenda. In preparation for this session, we agreed that this session should be convened with the proposed agenda and the scheduled 18 items of the agenda. Of course, there have been words and we have agreed that if the House of Representatives implements the procedure and adopts the budget that we will also put the budget on the agenda of today's House of Peoples sessions. Of course, after the Joint Commission's report on the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Internal Audit in BiH institutions has been adopted and the matter is, of course, welcome and we accept that it is contained in today's agenda. What I want to express is dissatisfaction by the College of Points 14 and 15. Proposal for a law on the independent and supervisory bodies of the BiH police structure and the Proposal for a Law on Police Body Coordination Directorate. It's about very important laws that go into a lot of questions. We know what discussions are under way about these laws. The laws are procedurally contrary to the provisions of the Council of Ministers and Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers in this procedure. Even the competent working body, the Joint Commission on Defence and Security, also opposed to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, was subject to these laws and I think that in regular 3 procedures it should have had at the next session of these laws, after the working bodies had done their job. In this act, you have, therefore, made it somewhat impossible for all MPs, i.e. all delegates, as well as clubs, to discuss these issues at their club sessions. So, we, when we got the agenda, these laws weren't in the agenda and we didn't even treat them at the session of our club, now after, at the very beginning, the College had classified these laws. We haven't had an adequate discussion about how we'll be good at handling these laws if we come up with an examination of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1506	Before, onwards, I'd just like to say, you've been called in, the call said there was the possibility that the laws that pass the commission phase would be included. The truth is, at the College, we didn't make a direct statement about this police law because... at that time, it didn't seem like there would be political consent. However, in the House of Representatives, consensus was reached, and it took a majority to vote on these laws both Collegij and I and Mr Filipović concluded that it would be good, when it already has, to go to the session, a team before first reading, which anyone can declare, and the amendment phase, a more detailed discussion phase is coming, and I suppose that if Mr. Rančić had a slightly different view, there will be enough time for him to talk seriously enough at that stage. That was the reason why we chose to propose the agenda. Mrs. Čolo, I apologize to Mrs. Majkić. I'm asking you to sign up so I can get a list here. I have Mrs. Čolo's application now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1507	I'd just like to say a few words about what Mr. Rančić said. Both of these laws have been passed by both constitutional committees, both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. Both laws passed the Joint Defence and Security Commission as a competent commission for these laws. So there was no reason why they weren't meeting at the House today, and in that sense I think this is okay and that they should stay on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1508	Thank you very much. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1509	Well, Honored Chairman, we will have no choice today but to vote on this agenda, given that there are laws on which we have agreed and that we already knew in the agenda that they will be discussed today. However, I cannot help but point out my opposition to this ad hoc putting on the agenda some of the laws that are essential to BiH. So I didn't even take those laws to the session today because I expected that if they passed the procedure at the House of Representatives and went through the commission procedure to get it delivered to us, at least on Friday. At least for over four weekends we should try to take a stand both for the College and for our colleague, take a stand on how to define ourselves on these laws. I think it's incorrect today for you to tell us at the session that these laws fit, because I got the agenda five minutes ago. I don't think that's right for the future. Such important laws to find out that they will be in session five minutes ago, believe me, I didn't know that before, and if everything that Mrs. Dušanka Majkić says has passed, I don't know when the commissions were in charge, I'm not a member of the ustavnopravni Law and Security Commission, and if the commissions have passed these laws last week, it should have at least been done on Friday. I'm expressing my protest and in the future, please don't repeat this kind of thing!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1510	Thank you very much. If I have well concluded from the discussion there was no proposal to remove it from the agenda, so that I – there was an observation on why it was put – formal-law I do not have a request to amend the agenda and the agenda is considered accepted. Now we move to the first item of the agenda: Ad. 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions The answers to the delegate questions asked at the sessions were: Mr Rudo Vidović, Mr Hilmo Neimarlija, Mrs Dušanka Majkić and Mr Hazim Rančić. I ask the delegates: Are they satisfied with the answer? First, Mr. Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1512	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I asked the Council of Ministers and the joint services of our Parliament at the last session, and I received a reply from the Secretary of the Joint Service, Mr. Champara, and I am pleased with the answer completely. However, I have not received any response from the Council of Ministers and, unless I get to the next session, I will repeat the question at the next session but only referred to the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1513	Thank you very much. This is, by the way, the Council of Ministers' practice, they certainly didn't, we sent them and from the last College one more letter, one more warning, and probably, until we make some scandal, they won't get serious. Something needs to be done on one of the examples to make it really a little more circumstantial. 5 Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1514	Dear fellow delegates, esteemed guests, I referred my question to the Council of Ministers, the High Representative and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and I received a reply from the Council of Ministers. The answer is very exhausted and documented but only partially answers my question. Well, since I'm still expecting the testimony of both the High Representative and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on my question and the position on the answer I've received, it means,... and this time I appreciate and point out, I'm going to leave for some next chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1515	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1516	I'm not happy because you didn't answer the question I asked. You told me that you would propose to the delegates of the Bosniak People's Club in the House of Nations to reconsider their conclusion once more, with the aim of rationalising the consumption of office materials. I didn't get an answer whether it was done or not. That answer would satisfy me, not just suggest and the rest. We want to know, is it going or not going? So I'm not happy.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1517	We'll see at the next session. The Rules of Procedure are precise. We must respect the Rules of Procedure, and whether there is a need or not, we will see. We'll see how the Bosniak People's Club reacts. Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1518	I got the answer after a great number of months. I'll accept this answer, because if someone won't answer you for a few months, they won't even answer when preparing the budget, and that's the question of the budget: the issue of renting for the accommodation of all BiH institutions. Therefore, it is obvious that a delegate and an MP cannot agree with the Council of Ministers that, in accordance with both the law and the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, he answers the questions that delegates are asking. I will also accept this for the reason that the House of Representatives, at the adoption of the Budget, in its conclusion under point 4 has tasked the Council of Ministers to do the Action Plan to resolve the accommodation of the BiH institutions in order to reduce the costs of the lease of these institutions, although my intention was, therefore, to ask the Council of Ministers to consider this issue and to reduce these expenditures in the 2008 budget, they have been increased this year, but here we see how we will go with the conclusion of the House of Representatives. I'm not looking for a new answer. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1519	Thank you very much. Any new delegate questions? I remind you of your business obligations to deliver it to me in writing. Mrs. Majkić first, then Mr. Šaraba, then sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1520	The issue is addressed to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The new Law on the Basicity of Traffic on BiH Roads, which came into force in 2005, with the start of application in August 2006, was supposed to bring more order on roads, less dead and injured, less material damage, in one word, was meant to bring progress. However, we see that this law itself has not brought us any improvements, although it has already been more than two years since its adoption. He's not fully implemented today. This is mentioned by a large number of killed, injured and huge material damages that happen daily on the roads in BiH. Accordingly, I ask the Ministry of Transport and Communications to answer my following questions. 1. When the obligation laid down in Article 10 will be fulfilled. A law on the fundamentals of traffic security on the roads of BiH, which says: 'To monitor efficiency in implementing the Law on compliance with the conditions and obligations of the international plan, state institutions responsible for keeping central records establish a central register'? 2. When the obligation laid down in Article 251 will be fulfilled. A law on the safety of traffic on the roads of BiH, which says: "With the aim of improving traffic... traffic culture and coordinating of all entities that can contribute to greater traffic security, a traffic security council is being formed"? 3. Are all the sublaws that follow this law completed? I beg your answer on the written path.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1521	Thank you very much, only you ask us questions. Next question, Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1522	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, I will first point out my personal dissatisfaction because, I think, at the first session of the House, I asked one question that I have not yet received an answer and now I insist that this answer finally arrives because it concerns the exercise of the rights of a number of people who have been replaced by the decision of the High Representative, and these are people who are eager to do so. My delegate question is: What are the reasons why the construction of the Ivanica border crossing has not started so far and when the works on its reconstruction will begin, since all the preconditions, the project documentation done, are met, there is a precisely defined location, as well as when the Council of Ministers will launch an initiative to retegorise this border crossing from the passenger to the goods crossing, since there are economic reasons and economic justifications for this, and in agreement with Article 4(1) and (2). Law on the conclusion of international contracts? So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1523	Thank you very much. Mr Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1524	Dear colleagues, four months ago, the draft law amending the Customs Tariff Act came into the parliamentary procedure. For more than three months he was in the amendment phase and I gave the amendments, and it was simply stopped, because it was to be declared by the Council of Ministers and the Directorate for indirect taxation, I don't know if there is anyone else! I ask, so on one of the commissions there was even a promise on my request that this thing would be over by February 15th, and that it would come back again, and that we too could plead. Since this is the 25th of February, there is still nothing of it, I ask the question: When will it continue with the procedure, let us make clear about these laws? It is not only the Customs Tariff Act, but also the Excise Act, and it is answered to me, "When will it be?" But four months is a great deal. If there's anyone from the Treasury telling me right now, it'd be fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1525	It's not supposed to. It can if you're here in writing, but if you want to give an answer, you can do it now. Deputy Kasumović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1526	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, I'm going to be very brief on this matter. The Council of Ministers concluded about a month and a half ago that together with the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, the Ministry of Finance, the Management Board of the Directorate for Direct Taxation and individual experts from the European Commission – that they work together. You'll have the longest, according to my information, in seven days. I know the Foreign Trade Ministry did their part. The finance ministry should now sublime everything into one thing and present it to the Council of Ministers to make a decision. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1527	Thank you very much. I don't have any more applications for questions. I'm finalizing the first item of the agenda. I'm moving on to another one, and that's "Ad." 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 11th session of the House of Peoples Is anyone answering for a word? He's not answering. Prepare to vote. You can vote! Who's "for" the minutes. The vote is closed. It's unanimous. So 14 votes "yes". The 11th session log was adopted. We're going to the third point, Ad. 3. Joint Commission Report
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1531	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I'm going to give a brief clarification to these amendments that I've submitted today and that are here in front of us. So the essence of these amendments is to achieve three objectives in the legal text. First objective: to include a clear and precise definition of sport in the legal text. To say, indeed, that sport is an activity that is intended, and this is further listed and determined in this amendment, and that is indeed a clear and precise definition, whose primary goal is to define sport. Second objective of my amendments: to cut deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts. I and I now say seriously and responsibly that the deadline of a year... which has been left in this law for the adoption of these acts and too long and that this deadline should be halved, therefore, cut to six months, and thus make those who are obliged to bring these acts more efficient and operational, because they will surely work more efficiently and more operationally in the short term. And third, the third objective of my amendments is to confirm the entity status of sports. In fact, if we hear from all sides of the argument that sport remains at the level of the entity and it remains, but in this way only it is clearly and precisely confirmed and found that sports clubs in certain sports are joined in sports alliances at the level of the entity, and then it is further transmitted to a higher level. So, the essence of these third amendments: to confirm the entity status of sport. So much and thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1532	Thank you very much. These are Mr. Šaraba's amendments that have not been supported by the Constitutional Commission. He again submitted them to the House, and we will plead one by one about them. Are there others interested in the conversation or should we approach the vote, since there are no more reports? There's a Mr. Koprivica. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1533	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I apologize for the vote, I'm a little cold. The law on sports is a legal project that has been on the agenda for several years now in front of all of us. Those who were in the last meeting also certainly wanted this law to be passed as soon as possible, in order to enable our athletes to perform on the international stage. You know there are certain conditions by international sports associations to make our athletes perform at both the Olympics and other international competitions at all. This minimum compromise, which could be achieved at the moment when it comes to sport, I think it was achieved by adopting these 19 amendments to the proposed text of the law on sports, where that is, so that I think that by any further acceptance of any other amendments, they would essentially violate everything that was agreed at the House of Representatives, and thus create one problem that could later not be solved. I do not agree with the discussion of counterpart Šaraba that in some members, jurisdiction is being transferred when it comes to sports from entities at BiH level. He mentions several members, Article 6, 20, 21, 23, that it is a matter of transfer of competence. However, it absolutely does not stand. This is a framework law. It prescribes the principles of sport organisation, the organisation of sports alliances and other provisions contained in it, the competences of sports alliances, who establish the Olympic Committee etc. I don't think there's a word at all, there can be no speech about the transfer of jurisdiction from entity to state level. It is one of the minimum compromises, which I really suggest we accept, as well as the fact that in the decision of the House of Representatives and the adopted text of the law of these 19 amendments, this House is also acting, in order to finally get one law that promises our athletes a performance on the international stage. Following are sublegal acts that will regulate some issues, which are not contained in this law, to specify some categories that are important for sport, such as, say, categorization of athletes etc. and some other questions, which are not included in the law itself, and I therefore suggest that this House be given a positive statement in terms of the report of the Constitutional Commission that you received for this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1534	There are no more applications for discussion. So, I remind you that our committee has adopted 19 amendments and that you have before you a law in the same text... in which it was adopted by the House of Representatives, but we have six amendments submitted by the delegate Slobodan Šaraba. The proposal is, business, we're going to get the amendment for the amendment. We have to make a statement about them. Is there any need for me to read the amendments? You've got it in front of you. Now we'll get to the bottom of the amandman I. amandman I.. moliti prepare to vote. You can vote. The vote is over. With one vote "for", 13 votes "against", the amendment was adopted. Excuse me, the amendment has been denied, I apologize. It's not adopted. 11 Prepare to vote on amandman II.. Please vote. It's a final vote. With one vote "for" and 13 "against", the amandman was not adopted. Prepare to vote on amandman III.. You can vote. The vote is closed. With one vote "for" and 13 "against", amandman III was not adopted. Amendment IV. You can vote. It's a final vote. With one vote "for" and 13 votes "against", amandman IV was not adopted. Prepare to vote on amandman v.. You may vote. It's a final vote. With one vote "for" and 13 "against", Amendment..., pardon, one "abstained", I apologize, I have not seen. Amendment number VI. Prepare to vote. You can vote. It's a final vote. Was it with the vote of the office? We're morati have to repeat this vote. I see something's wrong. Prepare to vote. You may vote for amandman vi. The vote is over. With two votes "yes", 12 "against", Amendment VI was not adopted. Now we approach the vote on the law itself. You can vote on who's "for" the law, as we got in the report from the competent commission with the amendments. With one voice, this is a little difficult. "For" is 10, "against" is one. From Federation seven "for", three from Republika Srpska. The law has both majority, the law has most. The law has passed. So you know how many buttons I'm pressing here right now. I find that the Sports Act has been passed. Mr. Minister, are you satisfied? Thank you. Moving to the fifth item of the agenda: 12 Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures (Second Reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers This is a second reading. He's the Proposer of the Council of Ministers. This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. The House of Representatives passed this law with three amendments. You've reached the committee's report. The Commission adopted three amendments, which are the same as at the House of Representatives and which have thus become an integral part of the text of the law on which we are making ourselves known. There were no new amendments. Is anyone answering for a word? I don't have a word for it. We are approaching a statement on this law, with a report from the Commission. Prepare to vote. You can vote. 13 “yes, ” one was“ abstention. ” There's an entity majority. Therefore, the Law was adopted in the same text as at the House of Representatives. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1538	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I have submitted two amendments to this text and I must say that I have agreed before the amendments are invested with the Association of Winemakers from Herzegovina, who are most interested in this law and who expect its adoption. Therefore, amandman i is to Article 13 and this amendment clearly confirms that the control of minimum technical and technological conditions prior to the start of production is determined by the competent entity bodies of the Commission that exist, which do this job objectively, responsibly, in quality, and these are inspection services based in Bijeljina. I have to tell you, to repeat once again, that these people who have done this job so far, that control, meeting these conditions, are really doing their job pedantically and responsibly, and I don't think it should be transmitted and given that job to do someone else. And Amendment II is on Article 60. It aims to prevent the young wine from being placed on the market before a certain period of time passes. So, winemakers expect, if wine is made and wine is prepared in October of the month, that it is normal for young wine to appear in traffic after 31 December of the current year. Therefore, do not allow wine to be found on the market immediately or in 15 or a month, but to be found when the corresponding deadline is past, which is usually three months and coincides with this deadline on December 31st. So much and thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1539	Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1540	The Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications considered this law as a competent commission in the second reading and meant we had four amendments submitted by Mr Slobodan Šaraba and 13 amendments submitted by Mrs Dušanka Majkić, which are identical with the amendments adopted in the House of Representatives. In the procedure of considering and voting on amendments, Mr. Slobodan Šaraba gave up on two amendments and these two who are here today at the session, these two amendments, for them the Commission was against because, in the opinion of the representative of the RES, this second amendment, which speaks of the release of young wine, if this amendment were accepted, would no longer be a young wine, but would be an old wine. The Ministry's representative is here and he said the amendment doesn't make sense. What about the previous amendment? The Commission considered it and did not accept it because the law prescribed that the control of minimum technical conditions in accordance with the law would be carried out by the ministry, the competent ministry, by which it was said: in collaboration with the competent authorities of the entity, so that there was no need to delete this word in the ministry, because it was in collaboration with the competent authorities of the entity, so that the Commission accepted 13 amendments by Mrs Dušanka Majkić, of the two amendments Mr Šaraba, these two amendments were rejected on the Commission, but it does not exclude, of course, his right to propose these amendments to the House today and that we have come forward today.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1541	Thank you very much. Are there any more interested? I don't think there's any need to call the D.A.'s office because Mrs. Čolo passed on their arguments and I don't believe there are any new ones. Is there more? If not, then we should approach the plea. Prepare to vote on amandman I.. I suggest I don't read it, since you have one, too. You all got it. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! It's a final vote. With one vote "for" and 13 votes "against", this amendment has not been adopted. We move to the Declaration on amandman II.. Prepare to vote. You can vote! I'm closing the vote. With one vote "for" and 13 votes "against", amandman ii was not adopted. 15 We approach a statement on the law itself, with the Commission report, so with amendments that are in line with the amendments to the House of Representatives. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Who is “for ” the law? The law was unanimously adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Council of Ministers Act (second reading) – Proposer: House of Representatives The proposer of this law is the House of Representatives. You've reached the committee's report. The Commission adopted the draft law in the proposed text. There was no amendment to the bill. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. There are no applications for discussion. Prepare to vote on the law itself. You can vote. Who is "for" this law. The vote is closed. “For” this law has been declared by 14 delegates. They were all “for. ” Therefore, this law was adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives. Moving to the ninth item of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Features of BiH (Second Reading) - is proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1545	So here's the chairman said that the report received a positive opinion from both committees, both ustavnopravni and competent. After all the trouble they've been following up on the budget, but let me say a few words, though, no matter what... it won't change our attitude. So we're going to stay on that budget to be adopted, but I want to say a few words anyway because I think some things that are related to certain budget items should be thought out loudly. In the planned budget, one item is deeply eyed, which is to finance the defence-security sector in BiH. In 2007, 427 million were planned in the budget, and for the same purpose in 2008 in the proposal for this budget, so it stands at 494, so almost 500 million. From that, only the Ministry of Defence needs to be allocated about 340 million, which is a point that is certainly a point of view when it comes to the other figures in the Budget Law proposal. If we look at a total budget of 1,166,000,000 billion billion, that's almost 42% of the defence-security sector. I am like this, as chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, but also as a citizen, thinking about what this country would actually get for spending so much money. What else could she actually do if she did a reduction in that part, or couldn't she use some of that money better to improve the situation in the areas of unemployment, poverty, pension system, health care and who knows what else. So I'm talking about a figure of nearly 500 million. Finally, what can be obtained after spending 325 million in the defence sector and whether our defence sector is the largest social fund we have in BiH. It is our obligation, as the House of Peoples, or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, to oversee the defence and security sector, and I did not think that our task was just to pass the law. I think it's our job to keep track of what's going on in that area. The fact is that no one has ever done 17 analyses since the adoption of the law, and I pray that we listen – otherwise, what is the story, how much does the military cost, what do we get from it, and how many citizens of this country are actually willing to pay for it? Today, I responsibly argue that this price is too high and that the effect BiH currently has in the area of defence could be achieved with a smaller amount, i.e. smaller military forces, primarily. So, BiH must decide as soon as possible how much and what kind of army it needs. The issue has been imposed, the members of the Defence and Security Commission present here, who visited NATO Štab, know that this is exclusively our business. So, only the BiH thing: How much army does she need! We need to have a current one that means 16 grand, which means 10 thousand active, five thousand reserve members and a thousand civilians. Is this the right measure for a poor country like BiH? Do we need a large and inefficient, poorly-trained and poor army or do we need small and elite units that will be able to finish the work that is ahead of them in NATO integration. It's hard to say now. You have to increase the budget, they say. What you're investing in isn't enough. Many in Parliament, especially citizens, believe that this is an unforgivable large amount to be invested in this purpose. Where's the measure? So political will must be a measure to say how much we can reduce military forces to make them effective, and to make the funds invested in that segment less effective. How can it be saved on an existing structure? We don't have that attitude. The military is in reform and reforms are significant, but we still don't know what it means to reduce in certain areas. We know that we have a waste of power at 22 warehouses guarding soldiers and that it's also one of the elements that could be rationalized. In NATO, they said finely: military forces should be what the country can afford. That's exactly what I'm talking about. And regardless of what we support this budget, I want this issue to be opened, to start talking about it, and I would also suggest that, I suggest a conclusion that might be consistent with this sentence. So, we will not challenge him, but I think we need to discuss this in the next period that, in accordance with Article 10.f of the Law on Defence under which the Parliamentary Assembly oversees, investigates all issues relating to the organisation, financing, filling, training, equipment, deployment and use of the Armed Forces: The Ministry of Defence is tasked to draw up a two-year plan to streamline the defence sector and deliver it to the Parliamentary Assembly for consideration and adoption by 30.6.2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1546	That's one conclusion. Thank you. I suggest you wait a little while and then eventually because we have already been reported. Mr. Zno answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1547	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I didn't mean to answer, I just answered, here's what Mrs. Dušanka said, there's a lot of things, the truth, that's all. However, I believe this debate has nothing to do with the draft budget and the budget that we all got 18 here. I accept this and understand it as an initiative or a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Defence, where certain things should certainly be done, not only of these but of other things to regulate and amend it. I wouldn't be opening a debate right now about... because this isn't really a matter of the budgetary strength we need. It is a matter of a broader and much more complex conversation and agreement, which will be opened once, but then on this, but we know about what kind of talks and what arrangements we have received now and we call the Armed Forces of BiH. Just one more fact. The armed forces of BiH de facto and deiure count tens of thousands of people because what is called the Active Reserve is about five thousand people, they are absolutely not in any function, they are not burdening this budget, neither is this country for a single mark. Secondly, what I was going to say: budget time is a little running out. I was going to ask you and all of your colleagues to accept what's done, and it's well done in the House of Representatives. I must observe, and it is my duty to note, that, unfortunately, this is the sixth year in this House, every year, unfortunately, we have almost the same or identical story about the BiH institutions' budget. We always get into some sort of time out after which there's nothing. After who either has a budget or has no budget. I think it's the House of Representatives, because of them coming from this budget, he did the job he did and I keep that we MPs in the House of Peoples need to identify and accept what we're offered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1548	Thank you. Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1549	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, I would firstly, since it is a debate of the House of Peoples on the principles of the law, i.e. the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations, express my satisfaction that finally, after intense debates, energy consumption, attempts to seek common solutions, however, we have come to a document that is both political and economic document number one in one country and I welcome all the efforts and all the compromises that have been put in place so far in this document, and therefore, of course, we need to look at a number of elements that are reflected in the budget in one way or another – but I am committed to the speedy adoption of this document, in order to enable the implementation of the budget to begin, especially in those areas which have an investment character of financing of regular needs, where there are already some delays, and even aweary one. Of course, this, which Mrs. Majkić spoke of, is an extremely important, perhaps too important issue of redistributing what BiH has in financial terms, but we must also be aware that the issue of defence, defence structures in BiH, along with the constitutional composition of the country, is the biggest, most difficult and complex political issue in which we are, unfortunately, the only creator. It may be a good time to ask this question in this way, in a way that 19 rationalises the economic effects that it is accomplishing, at a time when we begin to discuss the BiH Constitution, and thus bring in the armed, or defence system of BiH in line with the country's economic capabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1550	Thank you very much. Next is Mr. Šaraba, and have Mr. Rančić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1551	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The budget that we have in front of us today is a broad compromise and, therefore, it suggests that he has a lot of shortcomings as such. I will point only to two things, which are why I express my dissatisfaction, although there are more and, in the next phase of the amendment, I will point out in a broader context, pointing out the two shortcomings I notice in this budget. In 2008, it was the year when BiH's budget was scheduled for funding to start creating preconditions and providing preparation for the census. Since Europe was the year 2011 when the census was held, it was necessary that this budget that we have in front of us, and which we are considering today at this stage, provide for financial resources that would begin to create the conditions necessary for the census to be completed at that time when the whole of Europe is doing this: staff training, methodology building, the acquisition of certain materials needed for these things, the preparation of statistical infrastructures, and everything else really necessary to do in order for this list to be carried out in a quality manner in 2011. My second remark applies to paragraph (23) of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. I expected this budget to provide funds for refugees and displaced persons who are committed to staying in the environments they have come to, and cannot return to their prewar environments because the property is destroyed, and it is not fixed and they have decided and they have the right to live in the environments they are currently in. I think a lot of settlements have been built in this time of year that have a category of weekend settlements. They serve vacations once a month or one month a year, and people don't use them throughout the year. On the other hand, we have people living in basements, all kinds of places, no living conditions, and they decided to live here and have no help to stay in those environments. That is why I believe that both for this category and for this budget, adequate financial resources should be found. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1552	Thank you very much. Mr. Rančić and no more logs. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1553	Mr. Chairman, therefore, we are considering the Bill on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2008 in the first reading. So it's about principles and I call on colleagues and colleagues to support the principles on which Budget was based for 2008. Issues and talks on the Ministry of Defence and its reform, our accession to NATO, the EU, the allocation of additional funds for easier and faster and more effective accession to both the EU and NATO, to leave it, and this requires another story, at another session, with another agenda point, so I would ask my colleagues and colleagues to support Budget in the first reading. If you allow me, after we vote, and in accordance with our discussions in preparation for this session, to consider all possibilities for maximum deadlines and to consider, in the spirit of those discussions in preparation, the adoption of Budget... reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1554	Ms. Majkić: Replica
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1555	So I said right away at the beginning that I would support, that we would support the first phase of this law, the principles. But don't blame me because as a delegate to this house, I have the right to initiate certain topics that the Dom should think about. So, each of us, I consider it my right, perhaps as much as I am a member of the Commission for Defence and Security, plus that, therefore, each of us has the right to show the initiative, and especially to speak when the budget is adopted in which almost 45% of this sector is adopted. So it would be inappropriate not to talk about it. That's my attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1556	Thank you very much. I do not think there is any particular reason for Mr. Kasumović to address, as I think, and, by the way, I forgot at the beginning of the session to welcome Mr. Belkić, who is the vice-president of the House of Representatives and who came because of these laws where the House of Representative is proposing. I thank him for his presence, attention and giving importance to the House of Peoples, but I don't think there's any need to speak because my feeling is that this budget will get the required majority and I first suggest we vote in our first reading on Budget and then we have one proposal for a conclusion, which I have to put to the vote, Mrs. Majkić. But first we'll get to the point where we'll get to know each other about the Bill on Budget in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Who Is For? You can vote. I'm closing the vote. “For” the budget declared 14 delegates, 13 was “for”, one was “against”. The budget was adopted in the first reading. 21 In agreement with – prior to the statement of your conclusion – in agreement with the club heads, and also in the College, I am in accordance with Article 56. Rules of Procedure, I suggest that we call today's House of Peoples a session after an hour after this session is over and that we have only one item on the agenda: the draft budget law in the second reading. The club presidents gave me, there's no indication that there are any interested in the amendments, but since it's time... to leave space, if there's an amendment, the commission will hold a meeting between, if not, and just to agree, to adopt the proposal, so that we can make a statement in the second reading. Do you agree with this proposal? I can call because it says there he can call. So I decided to call that session so we could have Budget. And since there is no amendment, if anyone has, I'd like to make it in time. You do, don't you? Then the amendments should be delivered immediately. Okay, we've got an hour's break, so we'll do it. Is there anyone against this proposal that I said we're not coming here on Friday especially because of it? There isn't. You want to vote? Come on, we suggest that we make a statement about my proposal: that after an hour, since the end of this session, a new session is held after this, with only one agenda point. It's the Bill of Budgets. Prepare to vote. Who's up for this proposal? I'm closing the vote. I find the unanimous proposal has been supported. And an hour after this is over, we'll have a session, and I'm asking the committee in charge to hold its session on these comments in the meantime. We're moving on to a plea. If I understand correctly, the proposal for a conclusion of Ms. Majkić, on which we should make a statement, reads: In accordance with Article 10.f of the BiH Defence Act,... The BiH Parliamentary Assembly is overseeing and investigating all issues related to the organisation, financing, filling, training, equipment, deployment and use of the Armed Forces. The Ministry of Defence is tasked with forming a two-year plan to streamline the defence sector by 30.6.2008 and delivering it to the Parliamentary Assembly for consideration and adoption. Mr. Neimarlija, I'm sorry, Mrs. Čolo, I apologize, she answered her word. Ivo Miro Jović, Mr Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1557	I understand that today's review of the Bill on Budget has initiated Mrs. Majkić to propose such a conclusion, but I don't think the conclusion has anything to do with the budget. I propose to her that she withdraw this conclusion and that this issue run on the competent Commission for Defence and Security which, if it adopts this conclusion, delivers it to Parliament, because it is really not just a matter of funding and the amount of funds provided for in this segment at the level of the Budget of BiH, 22 but rather a matter of forming an Organisation of the Armed Forces of BiH and I think that we should have the opinion of the committee in charge. If we don't have it, we'll vote against this conclusion. We're considering Budget today.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1558	Thank you very much. No, no, first Mr. Ivo Miro Jović. Unless it's a replica? And it's not? It is a replica! Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1559	If this conclusion has nothing to do with it, so rationalization has nothing to do with the amount in Budget, then I don't really know what it has to do with it. I agree that this procedure is such that it requires a lot of advances yet, but rationalization, it can be done by the Ministry of Defense, and it is his duty. So if there are 22 warehouses that keep too much, let's see what the circumstances are for us to reduce, that number. I didn't say a reduction in the number we talked about, because it takes political will and everything else, but a rationalization of the military's capacity, that it has nothing to do with Budget, I don't really know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1560	Mrs. Čolo, is the replica on the line again? Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1561	Please, I think 61 budget users, which is financed from this budget, each requires a special analysis. Perhaps I think that some budgetary user has too many employees, there are too many money provided for in the budget for its funding, and therefore I think that this approach, looking at only one budget user, and asking for a rationalisation of the number of employees, the number of funds provided for in the budget, is a one-sided approach, and I think that making such a conclusion is not okay today when it comes to the budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1562	Thank you very much. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. What's the Replicable Rules of Procedure? Is there a limited number? Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1563	How does it not matter? I just insist on it! How does it not have anything to do with the amount? How does it not relate to the amount, Mrs. Čolo, this amount? I didn't ask to cut the budget, but to ask the Ministry of Defence to propose how can rationalize it be done? And it is our duty, our obligation, as Parliament is our obligation. So, I didn't ask to reduce the defence item, I asked that this initiative be launched. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1564	Please, I think we've heard arguments about this and I suggest there's no more replicas here. He was, uh, Mr. Ivo Miro Jović checked in, so he's still staying, right? Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1565	: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, co-chair, esteemed and respected colleagues and guests at this session of our House. The component of Parliament, or this home, is the Defence and Security Committee. Feeling important, it was in its work that this commission drew up these questions that were now being spoken of here. In accordance with these provisions, they've visited the whole series, we're both visiting tomorrow and the day after tomorrow at a military in Capljina. And so many encounters with the Ministry of Defence have been made that we have really gained an insight into current activities, as well as problems with which the Ministry of Defence is facing itself in its functioning, and what might be undermining what the distinguished colleague said, about rationalising business and possibly reducing the costs of pressing military work. So I think that without this report that needs to be made up of a competent committee, to present it to Dom, it's an extremely complex matter, because the adoption of only ad hoc certain reflections, I don't think it will bring results. The fruit of this conclusion, we can also adopt it, but I think it would be much stronger for the House today to support and produce reports from the Defence and Security Committee in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, propose at one of the meetings of our next House and adopt such a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1566	Thank you very much. Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1567	Oh, I thought, Mr. Chairman, yes, here on this background, we seem to understand very well, to reconcile these views. If we didn't go, I couldn't agree more, and it's logical to ask a question, it's a huge amount of money, what Mrs. Dušanka said. However, this is about one whole complex, here is mentioned... all the issues that relate to it means: organization, financing, filling, training, equipment, etc. It's a whole complex. I am in favour, although I am not in favour of what Mr. Jović is proposing that the Committee make a report. The commission can't make a report. The commission, we will make this decision at the Committee, ask the Ministry for a report on all of these elements mentioned by Mrs Majkić, and then we will discuss this report with our position or opinion and forward it to the Parliamentary Assembly, and to one and another home. I think it's a normal course to get out of this... circle. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1568	Please, first of all, you will. Are you, Mrs. Čolo? Okay. It's just, the gentleman's not finished.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1569	I'm done. So this is how I propose that we do this job and that Mrs. Dušanka be the initiator of this at the next meeting of our committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1570	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1571	I accept what Mr Zrno said to address this conclusion to the competent Commission for Defence and Security which will deal with this. So that conclusion satisfies the exact form.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1572	First Mrs. Čolo, then you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1573	That is exactly what I was going to suggest: that Mrs Dušanka Majkić, as an official member of the Defence and Security Commission, can run on the Commission, that the House should not be in charge of the Commission and that I am not in favour of the House in charge of the Commission, only this issue is running on the Commission, that the Commission shall form the material to be delivered to the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1574	Just a second. Please, Ivo Miro Jović, then you. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1575	I'm not going to pollemize. I just wanted to say, I didn't even ask for a report in this sense, as my esteemed colleague said, about our visits of this kind, I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1576	Thank you. Mrs. Majkić. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1577	Why can't a proposal like this be accepted? Because when Dom says it's the right thing to do, then we agree that there's something that needs to be done in that field, that there's some kind of report to be made. There's some rationalization to be done. That we disagree, if we disagree with that, I will, and that is the conclusion that it is not accepted that anything is done in the field of defense, nothing to be done, let it stand as it is. Okay, and that's Home's decision, but I want it to be Home's decision. What? So I accept this, but I want Dom's decision, so it can be negative.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1578	Okay. Now, if I can, are there any more interested? I didn't see you, you didn't sign up. Feel free to press that button and now it does. Mr Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1579	Nothing, I'm just saying that I really have no idea about this matter. So I can't say right now that I'm up for something, and I don't know if I should. And that's why I'm not prepared to accept this conclusion. I don't have any elements, I don't even know if it's too much, if it's too small! There's someone here who's more competent. So I'm not voting for this conclusion because I have no idea if this is what this is or whether this really shouldn't be. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1580	Mrs. Čolo, then Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1581	So you really said, I feel, I don't know, that I keep making some arguments, which makes me think that this conclusion that Mrs. Majkić suggested only has partial ties to the budget when it comes to funding. However, all of this – decomposition, use, equipment, training – in my opinion, is a matter that is not directly related to the Budget. Use of the Armed Forces, please, just tell me what the budget has to do with it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1582	Excuse me, sir, replica, come on. Another replica and no more replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1583	You don't read well, Čolo. Listen to the conclusion: In accordance with Article 10.f of the BiH Defence Act, under which the Parliamentary Assembly is responsible for issues relating to the organisation, financing, responsible for... So I'm not asking you to. My conclusion is in the second part of the text. You didn't read it right. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1584	Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1585	We're discussing funding for an item called Financing.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1586	Wait a minute, please!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1587	Well, I have to finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1588	Finish it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1589	Please, the conclusion begins with this: The Department of Defense is in charge of up to 30.6. In 2008, it forms a two-year plan to streamline the defence sector and deliver it to the Parliamentary Assembly for consideration. Rationalization, what to do!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1590	Thank you. We heard everything. No more replicas. I can limit it a little bit. Here, Mr. Rajić still asked for a word. We'll go to the vote, I'll suggest how we do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1591	Mr. Chairman, that's exactly what I wanted to say. It is the right of every MP from the corner of his view to propose conclusions. It is the right of other MPs to accept that argument or not to accept it. I suggest to you as chairman, and you know how to do it: bring this to an end. The statement is the final act of conflicting opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1592	I'm in that direction right now, and I wanted to say that I think we heard everything, that there's no more need for arguments and anything else. If I understand correctly, Ms. Majkić suggested the following conclusion after this debate. The Defence Commission is tasked with, that is, its proposal to conclude, in co-operation with the Ministry of Defence to raise the issue; the House of Peoples, and so on: The Commission is in charge, but it is a proposal for a conclusion that we adopt or do not adopt. I think I've put it in a good word and I don't think there's any need anymore, since Mrs. Majkić insists on voting on the conclusion of the vote, I'm putting this conclusion to the vote. 27 Prepare to vote. You can vote. Who is the “for ” conclusion? I'm closing the vote. The conclusion won five votes "for" and nine votes "against". It's not adopted. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's ad. 11. Proposal for a law on the movement and stay of foreigners and asylum (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You have received the bill's proposal as well as the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics. The Commission has accepted the principles of law. The House of Representatives passed the bill in the first reading. Today, there is only a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. Who's answering for a word? There's no one interested in the word. So I ask, "Who answers the word and I watch?" Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1594	I'd just like to say a few words. Since it is known that in 2003, BiH passed a Law on the Movement and stay of Foreigners and Asylum, which passed the law on to BiH level, so the Ministry of Security established policies in the area of migration, and implementation was carried out at lower levels. So, entities and cantons, which led to unequal policy and law enforcement. Therefore, the provisions of the law in certain parts have been implemented differently and in the end, it has been of limited impact on the prevention of illegal migration in BiH. So this law that is before us in a certain way is, therefore, the law is overcome and the new law actually changes those provisions that are problematic. Given that there has been a large number of changes, it was logical for the proponent to go to a new law and I think the new law is in line with EU standards, which means both with the Schengen Agreement and with the acquis. Accordingly, the Serbian People's Delegates Club will support the proposal for a law on the movement and residence of foreigners in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1595	Thank you. Are there any more interested? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote on the bill in the first reading. You can vote. I'm closing the vote. 28 The Law received 14 votes "for". The draft law in the first reading was adopted. Moving to point 12. Ad. 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Foreign Affairs (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You have received the bill's proposal as well as the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, migration, refugees, asylum and ethics. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. The House of Representatives adopted the bill in the first reading. Who's answering for a word? I'm opening a debate. There's no one interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. We're approaching the vote. Prepare to vote. Who is “for ” the bill in the first reading? I'm closing the vote. The bill received 14 votes "for". So the bill of law in the first reading was adopted. We're going to the 13th agenda point, that's Ad. 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Policy Act (first reading) – Proposer: House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1598	Here, I must say in front of the Commission that we originally, when we were considering this law in our first reading, gave a negative opinion. Home... here did not accept this negative opinion and returned to the Commission again, although the Rules of Procedure stipulates that the House should give guidance, new guidelines to the Commission for consideration after its initial negative opinion. We didn't get any new guidelines. So, we held a re-debate, they were representatives and... the rest of the ministry, we got the Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration and the Directorate for Direct Taxation. From the Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration, it is our customs law, meaning that without these amendments, with the consent of communal law, with the EU Customs Law Directives providing for special means of ensuring the payment of customs debt, and therefore, the Commission has put most of the votes back negatively on this law. And I think that today we finally need to make a statement about the law and not return to the Commission without any new guidelines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1599	Mr. Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1600	Thank you very much. I actually volunteered here to get involved, what the president of our committee said, because I'm a member of that committee myself, and here's what Mrs. Čolo said. What we treated twice on this committee, here and last time, and this house was brought into a dilemma, was it, and the vote was like that, was actually me, at the last session of our committee, who had defined that, and I voted for this opinion of the Commission, although I should not forget the effort invested and the effort of ours, I would say, the sister's committee from the House of Representatives. However, after a clearer one, I would say, the arguments at the last session of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, especially from the rest of the ministry, I have decided, of course, to vote in favour of this opinion of the Commission, and this is how the Croatian Club will support the report of this commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1601	Thank you very much. Mr Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1602	I have no intention of holding you back much longer... but I want to remind you. It's about your own bond. This was an attempt to make it easier for businessmen to have a state guarantee problem when we import something. Let me just tell you one thing. When importing high value equipment, then you have to pay VAT which 10 months behind that you can't calm down. That's why this was, here's your own bond, so at least it doesn't cost me anything, right? Obviously, it's over 30 here that this bill is very hard to charge, and now, why is it hard to charge, it needs to be looked at in the law, so see. We have a problem with that. So, we who take these bonds, we have big problems with the billing and my own bonds and I don't slow the fear of people who vote against this one because they have a fear of falling into the inflow of funds in Budget. But I'm still standing at the point of view, because in that European part, the bond says. There's a bond here too. But it doesn't say its own, and then there's no bonds, you know. So now it's said: this own bond, in order for someone to receive it, has to be made by someone at customs, and that was the reason to say: corruption will be reduced, etc. So, I'm still standing at the point of view that it would be better to make pressure on that own bond, like anywhere in the world, to be charged like any other, own property, is it? Not just what they're looking for me for, not just firms, but me. I'm the CEO of the company. Give me your own bond. And I will vote, of course, for a law like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1603	You will oppose the Commission's report. Before, Berize, Mrs. Majkić, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1604	I just wanted to remind Dom. So we have the opinion of the Management Board of indirect taxation that...negatively, we have the Administration itself now which is negative. What's the third reason? We have the Ministry's position which is negative. We have a two-time review of the Commission. So, I don't think there's really any need to talk about it anymore, nor should it be voted on.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1605	Thank you very much. Mr. Belkić asked for it. It's a replica, it's a replica, I apologize. Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1606	The ministry noticed this problem and went with one decision that included its own bond in this deposit guarantee at customs. And of course, the Indirect Taxation Authority refused, because she's going to refuse everything alive because it's much easier for her to take the bank's currency or, I don't know, the bank's guarantee, and here, whether she does, she has to push. So it's not like there's no problem. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1607	Thank you very much. Mr. Belkić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1608	I, of course, welcome you all. The House of Representatives is an original promoter, practically our working body. So I just volunteered, not to influence, in a way, but obviously your commitment to support the Commission's position and to make this law practically stop living. 31 So this is what Mr Ibrahimpašić was talking about, it is an initiative, so the business world, which went towards our commission, and our commission rated it justifiable and tried to solve it. Of course, then we came across, how does it usually work – when you from the indirect tax administration get anything positive? It's impossible, it can't, it can't, but here, so I'm saying that this didn't go by heart from the House of Representatives and that this wasn't exactly without the arguments. I'm still claiming there's a basis here. Unfortunately, there is also a need to respect the profession and see if European standards, whether they are European standards etc. But I mean, this initiative was essentially well-intentioned. That's what the business world needs to hear. But here, of course, it's Dom who will decide what to do next. But, too bad, too bad we missed this chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1609	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for discussion. Is that my conclusion or what? I'm closing the debate. I also understand the initiative, and I think it made sense, but I think the issue of the exchange rate with us, as an instrument, is not regulated and that this is a problem, and not this idea itself, and not the impact on the law, but the bond is a key problem. But here, I think that idea should somehow try to see in some other form, some other law to try to reactivate. So, I remind you, we are now pleading on the Commission's opinion. Those who are "for" the Commission's opinion will be against the law. Those who are "for" this law must vote "against". Just so you know, "against the Commission's opinion! Just so you know how to vote. So, I'm putting on, get ready to vote. I am putting the Commission's report to the vote. Who is the Commission's "for" report? You can vote. I'm closing the vote. The Commission's report was received – just a second – with two "against", one "maintained", 11... The Commission’s report was accepted. Therefore, this law has been practically rejected. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. Proposal for a law on the independent and supervisory bodies of the BiH police structure (first reading) You have received the bill's proposal as well as the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. The House of Representatives passed the bill in the first reading. This is the first reading. There is a debate on necessity and principles. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Rančić and Mr. Šaraba picked up the phone. Here you go, Mr. Rančić. You're the first. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1611	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Since this is about first reading, let me say a few words about the procedure relating to these two laws, and about the Law on the Independent and Supervisory Authorities of the Police Structure, as well as the Law on the Law on the Coordination of Police Authorities. So it's the same procedure. Of course, we can handle the debate separately, point by point. I therefore feel and responsibly argue that these laws have come illegally: they have passed through the Council of Ministers and before the competent working bodies and before this Parliament. I would like to remind you that the Mostar Declaration was signed, then the Action Plan and the Framework Plan for the work of the Working Group, which, in accordance with these three documents, should have drawn up draft laws relating to this area. Point 8 of the document, which has just been passed by the Council of Ministers, is prescribed that these laws should be done by a working group, by consensus. Since there was no consensus, we didn't even have the established text of the draft of these laws. Afterwards, Mr Špirić decided, contrary to the Council of Ministers' Law and against the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers, to draw up two laws and put them in the process. Mr Špirić, as chairman of the Council of Ministers, was not authorized to do so, because according to the Mostar Declaration, according to the Action Plan and the Working Group Framework Plan, and in particular point 8 of the Framework Plan, the task force was authorised to draw up these laws. If he took the right to draw up these laws, that means he gave up the Bridge Declaration and the Action Plan. Because, according to these documents, Mr. Špirić was not authorized to draw up these laws. In the ordinary procedure, the Council of Ministers has the power to draw up the text of the law in the resolution area and to put them on the Council of Ministers and to pass the appropriate procedure and to come, whether, in Parliament, to the competent authorities and again and to the one and the other home. Because if someone is going to say that Mr. Špirić is authorized to draw up these laws and put them in the process, then I ask the question: Why is there even a working group that had one basic task, which is to come to the text of the draft of these two laws? When it comes to the principles on which both law and law are based, although this does not stand in reason, but it is in the Declaration and the Action Plan that these two laws will be based on three principles of the European Commission, which concerns the EU. I responsibly claim that both law and law are absolutely contrary to those three principles. So, that the texts of the law, which Mr Špirić made up and released in the procedure illegally before the Council of Ministers, are absolutely contrary, therefore to these three principles of the European Commission, because these laws do not provide for all legislative and budgetary competence for all matters of the police at the state level and, accordingly, do not comply with the first principle of the European Commission. Then, the budgetary authority for all police matters is not on the state level. Therefore, political interference in the operational work of the police is not prevented anywhere, not one word of this matter is solved. And especially, at the local level, because local parliaments remain in jurisdiction. Therefore, both entity and cantonal and Brcko District as well as local executive authorities are involved in police work, nor are these laws creating functional local police powers that must be established on the basis of technical criteria for police work, while the operational command is conducted locally. 33 Therefore, the proposed laws do not lead to or will lead to the creation of a functional multiethnic and professional police force that should guarantee the safety of all citizens and goods throughout BiH. When it comes to procedures in front of competent committees, we have also experienced an eclectic violation of the provisions of our Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure of the House of People, which is Article 96(3) which speaks and procedures, it is such a practice that the relevant laws are first referred to the Constitutional Commission which assesses whether there is a constitutional basis and thus in line with the legal system, etc. But only after a job has been done on the Constitutional Commission are the laws delivered to the competent commission, which again discusses the principles of those laws. In this case, it's done differently. Therefore, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure were violated and the order was replaced. But that wasn't enough either, so we had one indigestion on the Defence and Security Commission that after the session was called and held, we had a 5-5 vote. Therefore, the Commission's first report was negative. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, labour reports are sufficient for homes and then home reports are made known. If Dom, here's what we had at this point earlier, accepts a negative report from the Commission, the law does not go into further procedure, and if the House does not accept a negative report from the Commission, then the House can return the law to the competent working body in the re-session procedure and commit the competent commission to take a different position, of course, with an adequate explanation. Someone has ordered the president of the commission to re-invoke this commission with some of the strings behind the scenes, without the report being delivered to the House and then the commission was held again. So I'm now asking: is it possible to hold on to any question, therefore on one law, perhaps in the course of one day more, five-eight or 12, a session of the same working body, and to have different seven-eight opinions, so that it is delivered to us at the sessions of the House? Is that in accordance with the procedure prescribed by our Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples? When you get involved and you start breaking the rules of the Rules of Procedure, then that, it goes on, you know, it doesn't stop there. Two different reports were delivered to the House of Peoples from that same commission, under the same number and on the same date, and with different voting results at the second session. So that's how it's done in continuity regarding violating the provisions of our Rules of Procedure. When we talk about the harmonisation of these laws and what is with the legal system, with the constitutional legal system, I dispute the Constitutional Commission's position on the harmonisation of these laws, but also with the constitutional, or legal system of BiH. In fact, I have to give you an example of why I'm saying it. Because these laws propose to establish new seven bodies in BiH, at the level of BiH. Of these, four would be police and three independent and supervisory, which would also have jurisdiction exclusively over police bodies at the level of BiH, SIPA and the Border Police. Those who do this know it's just the SIPA and the Border Police. In doing so, someone shows great ignorance that there are the following things in BiH regarding the competencies of police bodies, whose establishment is proposed by these laws. So, when it comes to the Education Agency, I want to remind you colleagues that we have education in BiH under the Federation of BiH MUP. Then, we have education within the RS MUP, both secondary and university. Then we have an organisational unit, a center, inside the border police training, educating state-level personnel, for the border police. So does this country need the establishment of another agency, another 34 directors, etc. and the entire staff who would have jurisdiction, exclusively the responsibility for the education of state-level personnel, if we already have such an organisational unit within the Border Police. When it comes to the establishment of the Agency for Forensics and Arts, I want to introduce you to the fact that we have art in BiH within the Federal Ministry of Interior. That we have the same thing within the RS Ministry, that we have the same thing within the Tuzla Clinical Center, related to DNA analysis, that the same thing, as an organisational part, is the organisational unit of 37 people we're supposed to have in SIPA, so the Agency for Investigations and Protection. So do we need to set up another agency when we already have an organization unit in the SIPA that would again have sole competence for art, so for police bodies at BiH level. When it comes to the establishment of an Independent Committee that would have jurisdiction to conduct procedures and propose the election of police chiefs, only SIPAs and the Director of the Border Police, do we need the establishment of an Independent Committee if we already have procedures in the existing regulations concerning the SIPAs and the Border Police for the selection of these bosses. Wasn't it not a full month ago or maybe a few more days ago... the election procedure of the director of SIPA? Isn't that procedure done? Yes, it is. What do we need now to erase something in the existing laws to establish an Independent Committee? What do we get in quality here? Nothing. Or, if it's the Police Appeals Committee? I would like to remind you that the law provides for the establishment of a Police Officers' Appeals Committee as a second-degree body to address all status issues of police officers but only at BiH level. I would like to inform you that in the existing Law on Police Officers in Articles 121 and 122 of the Law, the issue has already been resolved in a manner that has been prescribed and established by the Police Committee to resolve all issues, all status issues of state-level police officers. Is it necessary for us not to know so much that this body already exists in BiH, that it is responsible for state-level police officers and that we now need to delete it from the existing law and make this new institution? It's offering a fictional procedure and a reform process in BiH police, which, I think, is unacceptable for citizens. Of course we need police reform as one of the conditions of signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and this is absolutely bad, this is a total fiction, and I don't think this is going to get any of this on BiH citizens. So we need security for citizens and our assets in the first row, and secondly, as a condition we need to meet to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Therefore, I, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, call for this to be a fictitious reform, that the laws and which are proposed by Mr Špirić, and contrary to the Declaration itself, you know, I must tell you, so many are calling for the Declaration and the Action Plan, and in the Action Plan, I will read to you (2) in point (a) the position (2) led by the idea and the determination of meeting the conditions for the implementation of police reform, in line with three European principles, we are committed to: a) The establishment of state bodies for the level of BiH. The Police Coordination Directorate in order to make it possible for relevant police bodies to work more efficiently in BiH, therefore in BiH, not at BiH level, and more effectively, so it is a key task of this Directorate and is a key body in all of this: to empower the more efficient work of relevant police bodies in BiH and to provide more effective communication at BiH level with relevant international institutions. 35 When these, literally quoting, when I propose these words to be contained in the law, all those who voted for this law and who are calling for the Declaration voted "against". So, my colleague Lisak and I have proposed that this provision is contained in the Law on the Police Body Coordination Directorate, and seven votes we had, of the seven votes we had "against". So I propose to the distinguished colleagues and colleagues that, of course, by voting on the principles of these two laws, we reject them because they are fictional, not to accept them, and since we often have a replacement of thesis related to the implementation of procedures under these laws, so when you, colleagues and colleagues, bring arguments to the wall and when you show them that these are very, very bad laws, they make a replacement thesis and they say, so you're not for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is not true. In order not to do so this time, with this negative vote on laws, I suggest one conclusion where I will beg my colleagues and colleagues to plead. It reads: The home of the people of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly calls on the EU, Mr Olli Rehn and OHR as soon as possible to come and sign with BiH a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The reform of public administration, police reform, co-operation with The Hague tribunal and the adoption of the Law on Public TV broadcaster as important issues will be contained in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement as the obligation of Bosnian Herzegovina institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1612	Thank you very much. A small comment: per article 63. ten minutes is the maximum discussion. I've released a little bit more because of these remarks, but I'd like to ask that conclusion in writing, so I can formulate it when it comes to a vote or at least harder to literally do that, I say. Next is Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1613	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to be brief. I express my personal opposition and dissatisfaction with these legal projects for one basic reason why these legal projects are being transferred from RS to BiH level. So these legal projects, I also speak at points 14 and 15, are being formed by seven new institutions, and since some of these institutions already exist in the RS, are already working functionally, operationally, strongly and strongly, it is necessary to declare before adopting these legal projects on them the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. So these legal projects are contrary to Article III point 5. The BiH Constitution is therefore necessary, I repeat, to return them to the entity procedure in the National Assembly of RS. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1614	Thank you very much. 36 Next is Mrs. Majkić, so let Mr. Zno prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1615	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, allow me to say a few words about the position of our club when it comes to two such important laws. We know how it is, how much trouble it has been to agree on anything at all to get something that can bring together the largest number of political parties, and we know that the adoption of these two laws is not the end of the reform, but only the beginning. But that beginning is the adoption of these two laws, and the end is the final story of constitutional change. Once we know what kind of country we're going to live in and what it's going to look like, then we'll know what kind of police structures they're supposed to be. So, after two years or three, a lot of stories on police reform. This bridge deal was supposed to be that coupling or that override that would allow BiH to come to this so much needed signature... Stabilisation and Association Agreements. That's why I can't judge the good intentions of any of those who say we haven't accomplished everything, so we won't do anything. Since it is a matter of political will, it requires extreme rationality in making a decision. Does this country have the right to refuse to sign an agreement because they are not some, political elites have failed to achieve everything. If that were the goal, Mr. Rančić, that you at that level and in that range do the job that you think should have been done, we know what the answer would have been. They wouldn't start a job like this because we know they wouldn't come to it, it wouldn't be the outcome. But I remind you again of the key things in the Declaration. The structure of BiH's single police force will correspond to the country's constitutional structure once we have completed constitutional changes. The new and reformed police structure of BiH will be based on the relevant provisions of the BiH Constitution that will follow through the constitutional reform process. Well, that's clear as day. So we can't find enough power in our own ranks to pass those two laws. We can see that the collapse of the RS is more important to us than the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is fundamental, resulting from all this. But I remind you that both the position and the opposition have equal responsibility in the adoption of these laws, because neither of them have the right to leave this country outside EU membership. So, when we vote on the principles of this law, we must primarily... take care that no one has the right to leave anyone's children without a future and no perspective. Therefore, on behalf of the delegates of the Serbian people, we will uphold these two laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1616	Thank you very much. Mr. Zno. Have Mr Ivo Miro Jović ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1617	Mr. President, again, colleagues and colleagues, it seems we have come to an expected situation. And all our stories and all our debates are mostly polarization of two attitudes. Those who will not support the proposal speak, and those who will support today the principles of the 37 police structure laws in BiH. And we don't need to, and we don't have to convince a lot either, and the only thing that bothers me is that I'm not going to talk about police structure, it's still a profession. And, in the end, let the waist determine itself and determine what it is and what it must be. Secondly, honestly these laws could have been better but they didn't. Third, we have not established what three European principles are. Someone else found out and someone recognized those three principles in these bill proposals. So whoever found out that we have to meet these principles in these laws, the bill's proposals, recognizes and pleases nicely. Even though I know the law had to be better. But we have another phase when we try to solve those problems. Third, I'm not a member of the task force, so I'm not getting into it, but it's kind of weird. kolega Rančić, when you assume the Mostar Declaration, watch out, you assume the Mostar Declaration, the Council of Ministers' right to offer a specific legislative project. Could the declaration, in this case Mostarska or any other, be a condition for the Council of Ministers to propose certain laws? I'm not clear here, and I don't think it can, that the Council of Ministers, regardless of the results and the work, I'm not defending the Council of Ministers, but I'm just trying to make sense of it legally, even though I'm not. Notwithstanding the conclusions of the Working Group, regardless of the achievements of some in this case of the Mostar Declaration, the Council of Ministers as a legislator of the law has the right to do so, regardless of the conclusions or solutions reached by both the working group and the declarations. And third, colleague Rančić, we're friends and I'm sorry you said something was going on behind the scenes. Behind the scene is absolutely, I guess you know enough of me that I have no reason to exactly, six years here, never to do anything behind the scenes now. After all, I'm the business right of my own, you were there, confirmed through 10 people who were sitting on that committee of 12 possibles. First commission, my first session was scheduled for me. The result is as it was and this result was passed to the House who decided on these laws... After that, whether these are special or extraordinary circumstances, but for me sufficient was the request, please be careful, the official request of the College of the House of Representatives to call a new session. I replied, with the individual statement of all the members, 7:3, we found that we were not violating the Rules of Procedure and that we could discuss what was true before and before. I'm glad that I think it was, that it was, that I'm personally glad, because it's how much we accept it or how much we don't, but it's about one European law, and I wanted it to not lie down on this committee. Let Parliament choose to lay down under that law where 42 people sit, not where we were 10. So, I'm also doing business, and I think it's done properly. Maybe a little unusual but I mean business... correctly both reports went home. Therefore, about the correctness or incorrectness of our procedure and our business, the House of Representatives was to be determined by accepting what we had done. Here's the only thing I answered about this, and now I've told the whole story. I won't go on, I won't bother you any further because all the other persuasion and talk, I don't think it really makes any sense. We know how to vote each and every one of us. I'd like to do that act as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1618	Thank you very much. 38 Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Have Mr. Rajić ready. Just before that, Mr. Rančić, is it a replica? Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1619	Thank you very much. So here I was a little bit called. I'm not one of my colleagues and colleagues. Of course, it's their right. It's my right to answer. So, the question of assessing the principles of these laws, and in particular the three principles of the European Commission. Let the distinguished colleagues and colleagues not run away from their responsibilities because, in accordance with the Constitution and the existing Rules of Procedure, the obligation and the right of each of us delegates is that both on the committee responsible and in the first reading of the House we discuss and decide the principles. So we're the ones who are authorized and right in the first reading is deciding on the principles of the law. The Declaration and the Action Plan said the reform would take place on the basis of three principles of the European Commission. I read them. There are no such principles in the proposed laws, and I explained that. Someone may not like it or not, but that's the way it is. I'm sorry. When it comes to the authority of the prime minister, or the chairman of the Council of Minister Špirić, let the distinguished colleagues and colleagues also read the Mostar Declaration and the Action Plan and the Framework Programme of Work, so they will see that the task force is only authorised to reach the draft by consensus. If someone else is authorized, why on earth do we need a task force and two months of work? In the ordinary procedure, of course, the Council of Ministers and Resolute Ministrys are empowered to make up draft draft laws and to deliver them in the procedure. I don't argue with that. But in this regular procedure, the security minister is competent to draw up the text and refer it to the Council of Ministers, not to the chairman, Mr Špirić. I don't know when he's still in that procedure, here we have about passports, this, what, is there any other law that the chairman of the Council of Ministers has proposed? It's not. And we'll see in the future if he'll ever behave like that again at some point. And when it comes to legality, the number of hands on any body is not a sign that something is legal. It is true, dear fellow Zrno, that you had seven, in the second session seven hands “for”, but those seven hands “for” do not mean that it is according to the Rules of Procedure, but rather. Or let those who do not understand the procedural and legal grips ask themselves when, in the procedure before the House of Nations, this or some other committee held and changed its mind during the day after two or three sessions. When the commission does its opinion and its position under the law, it is required to forward it to the House for a plea. That's the way, we all know it, if you don't get it!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1620	Thank you very much. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Have Mr. Božo Rajić ready. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1621	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I feel I need to say here, after said, next. The establishment committee of this home wants and wants to work on that basic task, i.e. to observe the law in that sense in order to protect the Constitution and the conduct of these laws, according to what we want. That's how it was in this case. 39 Our Constitutional Commission did not consider the content of this law. We only appreciated the constitutional foundation, that there was a constitutional basis for the adoption of laws from this domain of problems. And that is why it does not stand for the fact that the Constitutional Commission has made the wrong decision in terms of the principles that are inside. So that's not good. Secondly, it is also said that the Constitutional Commission of ours has been considering these laws with delay, and that is correct. However, it is important to know that, in accordance with our working opportunities, treated by the Rules of Procedure, the proposer of these laws is the Council of Ministers, and that we have a Joint Commission, which is responsible for this issue. Thus, the Rules of Procedure allow the Joint Committee to consider this law before the Constitutional Commission of the People's House of Commons. That's exactly what we did. So I say we will continue to do our job knowingly for the benefit of this home and also for the citizens of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1622	Thank you very much. Mr. Rajić, then Mr. Ibrahimpašić, and it looks like Mr. Rančić has more, is he, a replica? You'll see, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1623	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to call my colleague Rančić just so much that I might get a little soft, to make a joke, because two or three days when we talked, he asked me, said at one point, if I'm going to support his attitudes. I said I'd support your right to think the way you think. .... Every calling, that's where it stops, you know. This is a good time, in my belief, to talk about the essence of the problem, about the laws that appear in this version in this way and in this procedure, in the first reading, and to me as a member of a nation who feels pretty silly in this country, and unproven good cream to comment on some procedures, some of our practice. So I'm going to say right away that I'm absolutely why, if we have to choose between eating a soup that has a rot or throwing it away, we have to eat a soup that has a rot. I think you understand what I'm talking about. That is why I am to accept police reform expressed through such laws, although it is neither in depth nor in scope complete. That is why I am to accept some possible failures in the procedure that have happened or will still happen in further consideration, to get the start of the process and to get something that I will now, here, accept, something that sometimes seems to me to be a demagogue postulate, when we all speak the name of BiH citizens, when people in BiH expect to finally get that connection in European integration and start to feel some concrete and practical material benefits from these processes. So between the selections, between the injured possible forms of percentages, etc. and unfinished processes, processes that aren't complete, I'm committed to accepting this package of laws, so I'm talking about one and the other, as a condition that we get a signature and that one big rock falls from the heart to all of us together and we're headed towards something that's the only real and normal destiny. And now I'm going to look back at something else. Therefore, do not delay the right for anyone to, on the basis of these laws, on the way they are conceived, on their conversion from the working version to the proposal and refer to the procedure, on how to decide on certain working bodies, to be subject to critical observation. I will not take my right nor have for that qualification to arbitration whether it was so or not, I will just remind myself of some practice that our Hrvat in BiH have repeatedly dealt with in a painful, almost unsustainable way. And that's that we've warned about procedure many times, and then we're told, you know, we can't stop real life. Real life is older, he has priority over form. And I understand that. What the Zagorac said was right, that's right. But it should be like that every time, not just when we selectively determine that this criterion is the need for real life beyond form. Many times when we were overvoted, when we are systematically revoted in all entities and BiH institutions, when we cried painfully and warned about it, we are told we cannot stop real life. The vote is a democratic institute that must be used eventually. I'm not saying this condescendingly, not by Bog, especially not by the thought of someone in this situation being too loud. My colleagues who have spoken about it and who have not yet said what they were going to say, but I am warning of a phenomenon that in BiH we should finally make an effort to start creating a system politically and legally, and from that all other pretenses that will be fair, which will not leave any of us in a position to feel threatened with insufficient hands and insufficient power so that we can resist a machine called the democratic majority. The democratic majority, gentlemen, is generally not always just. But it's an institute that we can't replace with anything but improvise. Improvisation, as we can see, has never brought any good. And in the end, I'm going to say another reason why I'm pushing for the adoption of all these laws that are involved, about the reconstruction of the police system in BiH, and I am fully aware that there is inaccuracies in this system. As a member of the Croatian people who is the fewest in BiH and who is the only one who has no institutional form of protection of his rights... – Mr. Šaraba says: this should be made clear by the RS Assembly, the National Assembly – I do not know an institution that Hrvat could seek a previous check of their rights. And precisely because we do not have an institutional framework, in which we can protect ourselves from those solutions that are not fair, we believe that joining the EU and entering that process are our only hope, our only salvation. In this constitutional composition in this country, we are left with either assimilation or moving. And that's why I stand for Europe without conditions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1624	Thank you very much. Let me just let you know. So far there have been reports: Ibrahimpašić, Ivanic, Koprivica, Čolo and Mr. Rančić but I suggest, Mr. Rančić, since the replicas are probably with you to hear everything, then. Or are you going to do it first? Come on replica, then, Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1625	Either a little directly between colleagues or indirectly through Mr. Jović's discussion, they say I said these laws have no constitutional basis. I didn't say that, I didn't say that. I was talking about harmony. Please, I know what I said and I know what I wrote in preparation, that's before, that's what my colleagues saw, and I'm gonna get myself because, you see, there's a reason to insist on 41. It is a discrepancy with the existing legal system. So, in the Act on the Independent and Supervisory Authorities of the BiH Police Structure, the members of the 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th and so on. they are referring to the establishment of a Board of Appeals of Police Officers, whose jurisdiction is in Article 9 of the law provided for. The Board of Appeals of Police Officers is responsible for making decisions on complaints filed by police officers against decisions taken by BiH police authorities on the status of police officers or in cases of failure of a police authority to make a decision on the status of police officer, etc. Now let me read you what I said again, I said it, Article 121, 122, so my colleagues understood it differently. In the existing Law on Police Officers, published in Official Messenger of BiH, number 27/2004. So, in the existing law that applies in BiH, that's all colleagues obviously don't know, we have Chapter XIV. which speaks of the Police Committee, and Article 121 says: (Employment and role of the Police Committee) The Police Committee shall establish the Council of Ministers, the Police Committee shall be responsible for reviewing decisions or for not making decisions of a police authority relating to the status of police officers. In accordance with these laws and sublaws, and at the request of and now explains. In Article 122, it refers to the composition, etc. So, I'm saying that the proposed text and the existing law that is in force is the same thing they offer us and propose and people are cordially saying it's police reform in BiH. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1626	Thank you very much. Mr Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1627	Dear colleagues, I just want to tell you about what bothers me about this, so you know how I think. So, we are not under the obligation not to sign the Stabilisation and Association Treaty but the EU, we are not making it up, they are. We also didn't invent the other thing, that the law or that police reform must be in line with some three principles that they once again invented. It would be much fairer for me too if they had given up on their demands: don't do it now, when you can't do it and you can't agree to it, to be in line with those three principles. Do not make any law that later when you adapt your legislation to this European acquis, you will have to change it anyway. That bothers me. So it is obvious now that someone wanted to force the law to be passed and that it was in line with some three principles. As hard as it was, so it couldn't be secured, now it's completely retarded and the child does anything. And now that I, me, need to look in the mirror tomorrow, that doesn't suit me right now. Why do I have to make anything when you can give up correctly? Don't, people, you can't do it now, don't rape yourself, leave it, let's just sign this Stabilisation and Association Agreement now, so when you get into this chapter, where you have to adapt your legislation to the European legislation, you'll come to that, and then you'll talk. That's where you have to go. Then you must because there will be no such Europe... Well, that's what I needed to say. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1628	Thank you very much. Just a few sentences and me. So somewhere my first encounter with police reform was, somewhere, I think March-April 2004 and this, here, is almost four years old and I think this police reform has been led from the very beginning to that it was a pure political process, that it had nothing to do with technical criteria. It was all wrapped up in technical criteria, it was politics. There was a number of institutions, particularly within the OHR, which they thought would be the biggest contribution from BiH would be made if one centralised police force without entity police were made, although it is completely contrary to European practice. Nowhere in any decentralised European country, you have no centralised police. Not in any of them. Many seminar participants often visited these countries, and then they were shown a practice that is completely opposite. The greater decentralisation of the police, the more European experience it is. Asking why he can't go to our place, you're the second case. And Europe has served us for our internal political conflicts. The story of Europe and at least... was High Representative Pedi Ešdaun when he said it came to becoming a European criterion: by what he called it, at least it says in his memories, and it will be written in memory, he called Kris Paten and asked him to set it as a criterion for the EU. Kris Paten, quoted literally, as he always agreed, and it was a way to put as a condition for the EU all this happened. And I remind you, I don't want to go into it anymore. Here's the point. There's been some kind of deal. The European institutions will most likely, we do not know, but most likely say it is satisfactory as far as BiH is concerned. It creates conditions that it can sign, emerges for at least one time from this police reform problem. It gets more efficient institutions, gets regional institutions at BiH level. The Directors are not elected by the Independent Committee but rather by the Council of Ministers, which is not good. And... the political aspect isn't adequate and I think it's there, let's say, in some way, that there's going to be a shift. November, March, summer, so spring and summer 2004, here we are in the spring of 2008. Let's try to finish that part to sign the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I honestly do not think that there is any expansion of BiH's jurisdiction over the entity because there are many more operating bodies, both called SIPA and the State Border Police, and entities have, signing that agreement where, in turn, they have given practical space to discuss it. And, I don't think there's been any change in jurisdiction or my opinion or, who thinks, I'm as real as Mr. Rajić, will not change here, or Mr. Zrna. We won't convince each other or stand a chance. I think we should approach the vote. See, if it's possible to get most of these laws and create conditions that the agreement can be signed. And definitely the assessment will eventually give the EU because it will either make it possible or not to allow the signature. I just wanted to say this a little bit that there's been a lot of politics here since the beginning, and that police reform has been and started and ended up being a dominant political issue where everyone's been talking about tech, and the essence was completely different. Pure, maximum pure policy, but here. That's it, thank you. I, of course, intend to vote for these laws. Mr. Koprivica is next. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1629	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not gonna repeat everything we've heard. I think 10 days ago we had a unique opportunity here when we hosted European parliamentarians. Just one topic, which was on the agenda of the meeting, was police reform. What we had a chance to hear from them, I don't think there's any need to repeat it now. The signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is certain for all of us sitting here as a primary objective and task, because procedures are known in the EU accession process and in European integration itself, that every country that signs the Stabilisation and Association Agreement only then enters into certain processes that are prescribed, certain deadlines required to meet these conditions, in order to formally become a member of that large European family. So the common goal of all of us who are here in any way involved in these reform regulations, these two laws, is to sign the Stabilisation and Association Agreement as soon as possible. I don't think any of us have to think that way. I also heard an interesting comment at that rally. But that makes sense. Mr Kacin, a Slovenian Parliamentarian, has just advised us in this delegation: Go gradually, resolve one question at a time, from those easier to more difficult. Do not at this time demand that you resolve the most difficult questions you cannot agree on at this time. I think we're in that situation right now. Let's do it one step at a time. It's true that these two laws don't even close-up a set of police reform and, I mean, talking about it is really too much. But what is this minimum condition, a minimum compromise, which can be achieved at this time, I really think we must find so much strength and so much goodwill that we give the citizens of this country a clear message that we are committed to these European integrations, that this is the only time BiH can and must accept at this point but the condition that the EU is so much now is, not to say, unbalanced, acceptable. I really won't, and I can't, because I've never been to the police and I have certain experience of commenting on these allegations by Mr. Rančić and everything we've heard about professional issues when it comes to police reform itself. But just for these reasons, the sooner we get into position, the sooner we sign the agreement, the more likely we can, in the context of further reforms that are ahead, constitutional reforms, and everyone else, come into a position to finally solve these issues and to give this people a more normal path and a more normal life. If we don't think about it that way, and the EU's hand that's really clear to us right now, that message was given a dozen days ago here -- whoever was present at that rally had the opportunity to hear these very messages -- so let's take a gradual course, that what is the minimum of what we are looking for, we meet, to adopt these two laws, and later, normally, in the framework of constitutional reforms, we're going to solve all these issues. I think any other decision in the opposite sense would be against the interest of all of us who are here. I really don't see what the reasons are, Mr. Rančić, and the others that you've commented that at this point we are not prepared to accept the principles of this law, and to adopt this law today in our first reading. Thank you. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1630	Thank you very much. Mrs Alma Čolo. Have Mr. Neimarlija ready. Is it a replica again, Mr. Rančić, or what? I'm sorry, ma'am, since Mr. Rančić is...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1631	Thank you very much. So, you said there was a new quality in the proposed laws, in a way that the Independent Committee would choose the heads of SIPA police and the Border Police, and I claimed otherwise, and I prove it by the provisions of Article 3. The law on independent and supervisory bodies which says that the Independent Committee will only implement the procedure, call a competition, etc. and then propose five candidates there to the Minister of Security who will bring it back to the Council of Ministers, and Article 7. The Law on the Directorate for the Coordination of Police Authorities, he says - in the position (5) of the Council of Ministers resolves the Director and Deputy Directors as well as, pardon in Article 7(4) and (5) of the Director and Deputy Director appointed the Council of Ministers as well as this existing solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1632	Thank you very much. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1633	Well, I can't really express one of my subjective feelings. Believe me, I spent 10 years of my life working with the police. And I can't say I don't know what kind of police BiH has. And,... I do mind that all those who vote today for the principles of this law believe that we who have a different opinion are not in favour of BiH joining the EU. So believe me, I have a child who is 20 years old and I want my child to live in a country that is richer, which is better arranged and can't be attributed to me by anyone that I'm not for BiH to go to the EU. But I can't say here today that I don't think with these laws she gets anything. These laws don't get us anything. And whoever knows a little bit more about the police knows that these laws, when it comes to improving the efficiency of police in BiH, we get nothing. We only get parallel institutions, we get seven institutions, and what Ms. Dušanka Majkić was saying -- I have to present one digression -- when she talks about budgeting and financing the Armed Forces at BiH level, then I reserve the right to say: with these seven new institutions, which will require significant funds from the Budget of BiH, you will only get a burden on the Budget and, believe me, we will not improve the police in BiH. We're pleading our principles today. I don't think it's just the principles of the three principles set by the EU and I don't think they're even fulfilled by these, with these two laws. So, we don't have a police organisation on technical principles, we don't have a more efficient police force, we don't have budget funding at all levels in the budget of BiH. And we don't have the third principle that the police are free of political influences, and I mean police all over BiH. But I know that the representatives of the international community and the EU are here to tell me that they are the ones who interpret these three three 45 principles and those three principles are satisfied. But I continue to argue that – in my opinion, and I allow myself to know something about this area – these three principles are not met, the principle of police efficiency is not fulfilled, believe me, and that is the principle for us all here to advocate and the principle of this by which parallel institutions will be created, which is an additional burden for the BiH state. And I allow you to have the right here, as Mr Božo Rajić said, to revote those of us who think differently, but believe me, I will not be attributed to anything, that I am not because of joining the EU because I believe that these laws that are in the parliamentary procedure today are only a process and giving up everything that has been represented by the police reform so far, and now this is something that we, here, should vote here to join the EU. I think that without this, we can agree with the EU to join the EU, and later on, we can reform the police because I think this, this, this, is nothing. This isn't what Mrs. Majkić said, part of it, so let's move on, this isn't even that part.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1634	Thank you very much. Mr. Neimarlija. Have Mr. Vidović ready. Is there a replica? Excuse me, Mr. Rajić, replica. I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1635	Well, I wouldn't want anything to stay unclear. Mrs. Čolo distinguished representative spoke of her views. I absolutely respect those views. Whether I will respect him in making the decision, in voting, it is now my right to respect him or not, but I have not tried to attribute to those who speak critically of this law today, refuse his acceptance, that you are anti-European, not Bog. I didn't say that. That's not what I meant. I was talking about something else, so that there's nothing vague left in the air, so this has nothing to do with your European commitment. You're defending some other principle that you don't even have to explain to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1636	Thank you very much. Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1637	I will immediately say that I will uphold the principles of these laws, and I will state the reasons why I will do so. Because I agree well with my colleague, Čolo, who... says that we are not getting these laws on the police, we are already getting – in my court, I may not be right – meeting the conditions for signing the ticket agreement and, just for an additional reason, they say, when they say not, but the truth is physical, when a butterfly waves its wings, the structure of the entire physical universe changes in terms of the situation. When he waves his wings, so. There is indeed this serious trouble that is objectively conditioned that we cannot separate parts from the whole and the whole of the parts so easily and that we cannot solve certain legal projects by editing a 46 area that belongs to that law at first sight. There is, therefore, one complicated to us, whether it is a property and state in which we are located, a connection and a mutual condition, mutually... parts and wholes. And that's what we could talk about, and that's why there's this one also for us characteristic conditionality of legislation, let's say, procedures and political practices. As just a reason or an explanation of why I am in favour, I quote exactly the counterargument of my colleague Rančić, because I agree with my colleague, Rančić, and I will be very pleased to support his proposal to accept us without these laws in the EU. When he characterized it as a legal act, or as a legal act indirectly, he had no intention, but the Mostar Declaration! The Mostar Declaration is an essential political act. A political act, it is an important political act to produce a legal act and now a derogation from the Mostar Declaration! We know who was the first to step down from that Mostar Declaration, not an illegal act, but a legal-political one. And, on the other hand, very well aware, first of all, of the fact that these laws: they have a procedural validity. They have procedural openness in this complicated dialectic and dynamic relationship between part and whole and inability to solve the problem of the police outside the structure of the constitutional and final solution that the final police solutions involve, however, or agree to solve them with the Constitution, but I will be in favour, but also in other ways any dilemmas and personal need to question the commitment, especially fellow Members, Mrs Čolo and Mr Rančić for our involvement in the European Association for the signing of this agreement and all those who at this moment are not for these legal projects, or for their principles. It is that at BiH level there is a clear agreement of all different political wills regarding our involvement in the European association. There's a public consensus. It is not excluded that and it is quite understandable and natural that there are people, that there are categories, I don't know, of BiH citizens who, for one reason or another, have the right not to be... However, at the level of some general will, if there is a general will in BiH, a political one common to all, it is a commitment to European integration. So we're not breaking the issue here whether we're for European integration or not, we're not breaking the technical question of the law. We are breaking all the sensitivity issues of the consequences that really should be borne in mind of the fact that his thesis, as you said, turns to him, do they, vice versa, in the sense that he turns out to be against signing the agreement. So, the complicated situation is and it requires understanding of the reasons for the consequences that it is possible that the rejection of the law is understood at this point as not agreeing to the signing of the agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1638	Thank you very much. I give Mr. Rančić one more word, and then I think that's enough arguments whether we've heard it or not. But here's another... that it can. Afterwards, only Mr. Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1639	Okay. Thank you very much. May I, Chairman? So, it's not nice when I do; first of all, I thank the distinguished Professor Neimarlija for supporting my proposed conclusion that we are all for the European path 47 BiH, and the first step is to sign the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and, behold, everyone who advocates it will have the opportunity to vote and hope to support it. Another thing, so imputing how I'm experiencing or not experiencing or what I said about the Mostar Declaration. So I don't think they're... well, slightly speaking, either accurate or appropriate, because I'm very well aware that the Mostar Declaration is a political act and I didn't bring it into contact with the law, not one law. This was one political process, one way to get to the law: Mostar Declaration, Action Plan, Framework Programme, work group, and there were no results! Well, you can't get someone out of that whole to take the part that he likes, not take the part that he doesn't like, especially if he's both a creator and a signer of all three of those documents. And, regular procedure, that, that treatment of the law, etc., constitutional, legislative and business, coming to the law, that's what I said, so now I repeat: of course it's possible within the Council of Ministers. They are authorized to do so, but also with the authority of the restoring ministry. With the department's jurisdiction, and not like that: someone pulls out like some magic wand and says here's the law, and based on... that and that. Whoever gives up that procedure, points 8 and a consensus, he's given up these documents.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1640	Thank you very much. And there's still Mr. Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1641	Thank you, Mr. President. Before I say what I think I should say, it also refers to the point next, in order to deny a little time, so about my thinking is identical and relates to both points that are below 14 and 15. Of course, I won't be long. We've all been witnessing that for several years we've been talking about police reform and some of us have been in a position to be part of an expert team, yes. I'm talking about talks at Vlašić, Martens, so I don't know, some of us here party leaders who were participants in the alignment, the hard-on of the proposal, here, if we look at the technical nature that the expert team did, and the political nature resulting from the Mostar Declaration. But here I am, by chance, the first time I've had a chance to plead on such important projects and here in the benches. We are the ones who make laws, and I clearly feel the need to say what I mean. So, both of these laws in the first reading I experience as – someone is here, I think counterpart Neimarlija said – the start of the police reform process. And I am absolutely for every process that will ultimately produce results, aware that the contents of both of these laws have certain shortcomings, but I want to believe that we will have a chance to fix them in another reading. The repairs, of course, I wouldn't talk today. Therefore, here I clearly want to define myself here that I will support these two legislative projects, not only because they are set as a condition for signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement but I sincerely want to believe that ultimately, in the end of the process, we will get more effective police in BiH, and I am also sure that we all want to do so together. So, briefly and clearly, I will support both projects. Thank you. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1642	Thank you very much. Well, we should now, but Mr Ivo Miro Jović is not here to make a statement about the vote. Are we gonna wait for him or are we gonna vote? Okay, there's a quorum. We'll approach because there are no more interested in the debate. Right? There are no more interested parties to be discussed, and now it's time to join the vote. So, I put on the vote of the draft law in the first reading, the proposal for a law on the independent and supervisory bodies of the BiH police structure in the first reading. Get ready to vote. Who Is For? I'm closing the vote. It was a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1643	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1644	Yeah, that's what you voted for. And then I apologize. Then I apologize, we'll put it back on. It's always been a question of who's for or who we put to the vote. But all right, come on, we'll repeat the vote so it doesn't. [[Common discussion]] Prepare to vote. So I put it to a vote. Everybody vote what you mean. I'm closing the vote. I'd like some results. Nine "for", four were "against", five "for", from the Federation Five "for", three "against". That means there's, like, an entity third of the total number of docks. The law has passed. Thank you very much. We're going to the point, I'm sorry, before that was the proposal for a conclusion. The proposal for a conclusion was given in writing and it is said about this: The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH calls on the EU Mr. Oli Ren and OHR to come and sign with BiH as soon as possible – it is not necessary to come, so I suggest to you, if you could, more nicely languageically – that they sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with BiH as soon as possible. Now, this stands and is not, but well, now... a comment, public administration reform, 49 police reform, co-operation with The Hague tribunal and the adoption of the Law on Public TV Service, as important issues will be contained in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement as the obligation of the Bosnian Herzegovina institutions. It will not be in the text of the Agreement, it is not, it is agreed, these are not the things written in the text of the Agreement. My suggestion: I suggest you withdraw. I'd suggest, but here's the message.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1646	So the four conditions that the EU has set before us are that and I am not running away from them. It's about me not running like a man. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, I know that, but someone can say, "Are you against public administration reform, against this, against that?" I'm not, even though I'm saying the laws are bad, I'm not against police reform, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1648	Just my question is that... Mr. Rančić, we're not going much. Do you remain on your suggestion that we plead on this, do you remain on your proposal? Are you asking Dom to make a statement about this?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1649	If you say it's better, here's what I appreciate, but not to be a commentary that he...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1650	I can't, I have no right, you understand! My suggestion was to draw the conclusion because it was said that you were for the EU. If you won't, then I suggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1651	Come on, here's the first part, first attitude, this second one doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1652	Part one: The home of the people calls for them to come and sign.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1653	Yes, it is. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1654	I don't mind. We put the first part, only the first part, without any conditions. Get ready to vote. Just the first part. You can vote, there's an open vote. This is for, I don't see what I'd be against. That'll be unanimous, I guess. Is this the result of the vote? Please, just a little attention. Please prepare to vote. I will read it: The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH calls on the EU, Mr. Oli Ren, OHR, to sign the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with BiH as soon as possible. Get ready to vote. You can vote. I think who will be against this conclusion. I don't know, maybe that's possible. We got the results of the vote. 10 voted "yes", "against" three. Let's see the entity? There is no entity majority of this conclusion. Nothing, no entity majority. Is there a match? As far as I'm concerned, I agree with this conclusion. Here, I understand that Mr Filipović and I, past the will of delegates from the Serb people, agreed that this conclusion should be adopted and that BiH should be called upon to sign this agreement. Moving to point 15. Ad. 15. Proposal for a Law on the Police Coordination Directorate and on Support agencies for BiH Police Structure (First Reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You got the bill. The House of Representatives adopted the draft law in the first reading, and the Commission responsible for defence and security adopted the principles of the proposed law. I think we led from the previous... If there's no particular reason, I suggest we don't open the debate. I'm putting this bill to a vote. Prepare to vote. You can vote! 51 I'm closing the vote. The proposal received 12 votes "for", two votes "against", which means that the law, please, is an apology.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1656	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1657	Do it again?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1658	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1659	But it's over, it's over, it won't change its mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1660	Please, according to this here, there were two votes "against", 12 "for". Are you insisting that I repeat the vote? [[Common discussion]] Yeah, well, it's passed the law, and it's okay, yeah, come on, it doesn't have to be now. We realized that you were “against ” and that by mistake you pressed something else. Here, we got it. But the law has passed. Let's move on. Point, we're moving to point 16. May I have your attention, please? I understand after the debate and everything and this technique is a little more complicated, but it's good. Moving to point 16. Ad. 16. Report by the State Commission on the review of decisions on the naturalisation of foreign nationals for 1.3.2006. - 31.12.2007.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1663	Today, the House of Nations has a serious document that certainly requires a serious treatment. We saw that the Council of Ministers extended the deadline for the Commission to consider granting citizenship in a year, and that's a good thing. The bad thing that is seen in this report is that BiH does not have accurate data on the number of citizens issued because the former Republic of BiH consulate has not been supplied with records on the solutions it has issued. The Commission's report shows that over 4,000 cases were excluded from the first-degree period and that 1,255 were only subject to review, only 594 processed cases were found to have been carried out, so only half.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1664	A little quiet, colleagues, really.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1665	Also, members of this commission have found that since 6 April '92. 18,506 foreigners were enrolled in BiH citizenship by January 2006. Konstatovano has also been noted that citizenship in BiH has been obtained from the space of the former Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia by 16.538 persons and 1,520 of those who have come out of the former Yugoslavia's space. I read this information sent to us by this commission. I have also read this section relating to... the opinion of the committee in charge, but what amazes me, as a delegate to this House, is that, in addition to this commission having its hands full to assess in which way and to whom citizenship has been given without grounds or in an unlicensed manner, it should not be the final conclusion of the work of this committee. I think that this point, these two points delivered by the committee responsible, i.e. after points 1 and 2, should be added to point 3 which should read: In addition to completing the Commission's own audit of citizenship and the obligation to determine which persons were involved in the allocation of disputed citizenships, because such persons could not be civil servants and public workers in BiH. So I suggest that that's the conclusion. So, afterwards, looking at the conclusion from the competent commission, after 1st and 2nd, to introduce this conclusion as 3rd and then to go in row 4, 5th and 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1666	Thank you very much. Are there any more interested? You haven't called me back. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. There is now. 53 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1667	: In a conversation on our commission, there was a speech that, in some ways, if there were questions or answers, according to the possibilities and what we discussed and agreed on there on the Joint Committee, that I could present here. It is necessary to go with the fact that this commission has very difficult working conditions, from those different circles that push in the work of this committee to what is called the modest material and financial conditions of work; so we heard that they borrow from other offices to type something, paper! Also, in such working conditions, if there is no full cooperation with the authorities – and here they say the explicits and what the authorities are – then we certainly can't expect this commission to quickly end its work, and in particular we won't have any quality watches. This commission is due to be given a term of office. We as Parliament can extend the mandate and I think that this conclusion shows and should do so because the job is nowhere near solved. Here we heard, dear colleague Majkić suggested that another task should be given to this commission, which is that it claims who has violated,...infringing the rule of law about the assignment of citizenship. I think for every man it's clear, here from this comes out and you can see by name and last name who is, when, where, by date, by solution etc. If the authorities could and should take this activity without what we would conclude here, it's simply their work. We've heard we have an application: children in citizenship since '94. A year old, and a child born in '97. Both such and other non-sensions and absurdities, or, I don't know, the persistent commitment of the BiH authorities to the protection of a group of people or individuals, and ultimately it is found that man is not a citizen, etc. etc. I think we have one studio-made thing ahead of us, that we have relevant facts ahead of us, based on which it can be claimed that this commission is doing quality, how fast and how much... it is made possible. On the other hand, I would like to say the name of the Committee on Human Rights that we have not on this committee argued that this sensitive matter, by doing this commission, has not at any time committed a violation of human rights, which is very important, I believe. And that is why I believe that these four conclusions, which we have proposed on our commission, five, forgive me, could serve as a solid basis in what I was saying at the outset: that this commission should continue to work, to do quality work, for the authorities to cooperate and for the financial situation to be corrected.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1668	Thank you. Ma'am, is it a replica? Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1669	So, this commission, obviously -- I'm not saying anything about a competent commission -- she did her job the way she could, but that's not the end of the deal. I'm talking about this commission that needs to be audited. In the commission's work so far, there has never been a problem with the issue of persons who have performed an illegal citizenship assignment? So there was no question. Here's an example to read to you. You only know the place but not the key person, responsible for it. The Commission found that Hasan Mekabi of Libya illegally acquired bh. 54 citizenship 24.12.97. years after the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications has resolved. Mekabi's confirmed it's been since February 3, '95. until 25.12.95. was a member of the BiH Army received on 18 March '97. A man in '97. He gets that certificate, and it's in the Department of Defense, Zenica. Wait, what are we talking about? So, I'm not talking about your work on this committee that did what it could, not dealing with these things that are the obligations of this review committee. Second, taken citizenship from Ertan... from Turkey, which is bh. A citizen has become a solution to the Justice Ministry and the General Administration of the Republic of BiH since 31.7.'96. In a letter from the Ministry of Defence of the Federation of BiH to the Ministry of Justice and General Administration 12.12.'96. The year says that he was a member of the 1st-92 Army. until 4.8.93. years and it is noted that he was badly wounded, and after completion of treatment he was fired from the Army. In a letter from the Third Corps of the Armed Forces of the BiH Army from Zenica from 13.8.95. There's no mention of injury in the year, and it's said that this member was indeed but 1.7.94. A year. I think so. I don't think anything will hurt your report this new conclusion that I'm proposing, but I think you could do a lot of good.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1670	Thank you very much. Mrs Alma Čolo. Replica, I'm sorry, I didn't see. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1671	I have to say and stay with what I said. In this book here, you know everything. Name and last name, who was given, who gave him the signed solution, the basic act, and all that is available to anyone who sees and wants to do their job. I'm not so that this committee that's investigating and auditing all these jobs that have to be the prosecution. The Committee for the Review of Citizenship, that's what I'm talking about. So where are we going to give him more to be and.... he does his job, delivers the relevant ones, and the one he's interested in, all the solutions about taking citizenship pass through the judicial authorities. Without the judicial authorities, he can't do that. So, through the D.A.'s office. Every D.A.'s office because there's a number of people who've been complaining. Any prosecution can have insight into this and initiate a procedure, not a commission. It's really notsens. He would be.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1672	Thank you. Please, just let... Mrs. Čolo say or you will, come on. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1673	I wouldn't ask you to write a responsible person here who's responsible for it. It says here an organ that's come up with a solution. So he says - the Ministry of Interior or the General Administration of BiH. Where does it say which face? We want the names of the persons responsible for this! 55
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1674	A signer?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1675	Please, the review is done, so everything: reviewing statements, revision of documents received. Don't tell me it's all disputed, it's just undisputed who signed the certificate. Please, I'm not saying this for no reason, and I think it has a foothold. The public got pretty high about it, and I don't see why we would have anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1676	Mrs. Čolo, we'll try to reach some conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1677	My discussion is not on the trail. I called earlier. I think we discussed this when we discussed previous reports. You'll probably say something more detailed on the subject. I was going to say, in the report on page 19, the conclusions were proposed. I believe that this conclusion under point 4. where it is said that members of the State Commission will be paid compensation, in accordance with the Council of Ministers' decision. Which the Parliamentary Assembly should not... draw such a conclusion concerning, which in the section relating to point 4. for the following reasons. This commission was formed by the Council of Ministers in 2006 and the decision established the level of compensation. They seem to have some problems in paying these fees, as all commissions have at the Council of Ministers, as the Council of Ministers suspended fees last July. And they are now trying to create through Parliament, re-establish their right to compensation. I don't think Parliament should get involved in this. This is the responsibility and competence of the Council of Ministers established by the State Commission, in accordance with the Law on Citizenship and in this direction, I do not think that this conclusion should be adopted under point 4. Oh, I'd like to look back on what Mrs. Majkić said. The truth is that the report contains the name of the person who signed the decision on the assignment of citizenship. However, this does not mean that no document has been submitted in the procedure for granting citizenship which, possibly, or through the abuse of the position of the competent authority in the municipality or at lower levels of government has led to such a person's decision on the assignment of citizenship, means that, on the basis of such a document, it is accepted into citizenship. And indeed these solutions are subject to review by the judicial authorities, but not by the prosecution, but by the lawsuit brought by the persons who received the solution... that their citizenship was taken away. It can launch an administrative dispute before the Court of BiH within 60 days. When they launch a dispute before the BiH Constitutional Court, they are being questioned whether they have been taken from citizenship legally in the legal procedure. However, this does not exclude the responsibility of the person who broke the law, and this is a matter of a completely different procedure. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1678	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate, and we'll get to the bottom of this later. Let's go first to the vote on the report itself. So, prepare for the vote to vote on the State Commission Report. You can vote! I'm closing the vote. The report, with 12 votes, was adopted. He's got an entity, so the report's been adopted. Now we have conclusions. We had five conclusions here that I thought were in line with on this committee, but here's a proposal for those five not to vote on conclusion 4. Is there any; this commission can't say anything now because she's brought her own, right, conclusions? Then we'll do it like this. First. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1679	I don't have the ambition to be an interpreter to my colleague, Čoli. The Council of Ministers has precisely reached a decision on the formation of this committee, has determined the amounts that will be directed towards them, but I have said that we at the Committee, apart from these conclusions, have heard and somewhat accepted the speech of members of the Committee in which they express the daunting circumstances of their work and functioning. One of them is a lack of funds. And if the support of this House is on the side of the Council of Ministers to fulfil its obligations, why wouldn't that be an integral part of the conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1680	Thank you very much. Mrs. Čolo, if you agree, then you do not insist on the proposal. We'll vote. Okay, then first I'm putting a motion of five conclusions to this committee's vote. Get ready to vote. You can vote! I'm closing the vote. With 13 votes "yes", one... conclusions were adopted. I'd like to ask Mrs. Majkić's proposal for a conclusion to give me, so I can formulate it. Mrs. Majkić suggests the next conclusion of the Commission's citizens' review task is that, in addition to completing the citizens' audit itself, she determines which personalities were involved in the allocation of controversial citizenships, as such persons today should not be civil servants and public workers in BiH. Me, it's my duty to put it to a vote. Stand by. 57 IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1681	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1682	Yeah. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1683	:... point out once again to one absurd conclusion like this. In the opening part of the report of the Committee, it is who is for which tasks and areas, with which the aim and task formed this commission. This is on page 3. Tasks, authority and authority of the Committee. With this process, we would now put this commission in a position to be practically the body that will be launched by the prosecution of certain matters. Why not take this home upon himself, and say that the prosecution's bodies are called upon to take responsibility, which would be much stronger and stronger than to do so by one commission of a few people. I have to say and conclude, we've given them a lot of trouble.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1684	Thank you very much. Just a second, please. First, in this report there are persons who are signatories and who as competent persons, who have issued these citizenships, are responsible, exist. If someone manipulated them, they should prove it in some regular procedure. That's one thing. No one can take off their responsibility. These faces that have signed so many solutions, and you can see that. Secondly, here it stands, I thought that this covered point 5 of the Commission's conclusion, which says: The report as information should be delivered to the resolution ministries which conducted the first-degree procedure and made a decision on the allocation of citizenship and to the competent judicial authorities for the purpose of possible competent treatment. So, the actions and the ministries that they've brought, and if the ministries, despite having the names of people who've given this much illegally, remain that they should do it, then we go to the responsibility of the ministries, if that's what we're going to do, if we think. But here is the conclusion that it must be done for the sake of action, the House has concluded that it must be done for the sake of action. Now, since they're signatories here, and for me they're signatories, I'm just saying, is that next to these signatories you think they should work even further?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1685	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1686	And you doubt, no, you doubt if it will be done. What's this commission doing? But here, I thought, would you like to vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1687	58 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1688	He's pulling Mrs. Majkić, and I think that's what we've done with this point. [[Common discussion]] I'll ask the question, when the time comes, what's done, but when the time comes. Well, for five years, it's been going on. Let's move on, point 17. Ad. 17. Proposal for a resolution on speeding up Bosnia and Herzegovina's accession process to European Union membership – Proposer: delegate Adem Ibrahimpašić
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1691	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1692	It's theirs, we don't have any amendments. It doesn't have to be. This is a resolution. Any objections? Can we? The resolution is not SDP but is proposed by delegate Adem Ibrahimpašić, no mention of the SDP. Mr. Koprivica called, so Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1693	Mr. Chairman, of course, by supporting all this that is stated here in this resolution and by supporting the adoption of such an act, I would take the opportunity to ask Mr. Ibrahimpašić, given that he is the promoter of... the previous two laws on police and police structures. Given that he voted against, and that we know that the exclusive conditions for signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement are these two laws, and he proposes this resolution: What, in fact, is his real, or his real opinion? I want integration, I don't want you or anything else. Really, I don't get it. So I'm asking Mr Ibrahimpašić to answer me specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1694	Thank you very much. 59 Mr. Ibrahimpašić, you heard the question, would you?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1695	Well, I don't know, I don't know what to tell you. I tried to tell you that I did not vote against entering the EU but against bad laws. And you agreed that these laws don't work with me together, only that you voted "yes". I even think we voted for this or did not vote the EU must give in because it has made us sick what we could not come to. No, we are not guilty of having a problem with these laws, but whoever forced us to make these laws a condition for us... to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. And when I talk about this, I really don't think... there's a story. ... So, I think this is the most significant development project of the greatest national interest, and that's why we should do our best, not just wait for the Council of Ministers and someone to include this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1696	Thank you very much. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1697	Well,... I would like to go before the Commission for European Integration, given that it was the committee responsible for considering this resolution and which was submitted to both homes in the same text. At the Commission for European Integrations, and you have this report here, it has been found that the position (10) of this resolution is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, both at home and at home, because it is said that seven experts are involved in the work of the Commission for European Integration and in order to join the EU faster. The Commission took the view that this was not now in line with the Rules of Procedure, that the Rules of Procedure and this representative of the resolution in the House of Representatives, Mr Selim Bešlagić, who was at the meeting, because it was a joint committee, agreed to change this position (10). I don't know what the further outcome of that is. Here I hear they have three amendments that we didn't get, so here I don't know... in that direction how we're going to determine ourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1698	Okay. Is there more? Mr. Filipović. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1699	Here, I'd like a quick one. ... But I would have a problem with point 9 of this resolution where it is said that every six months here in Parliament, so at the meeting of both homes, we will discuss how far we have come in the processes, or in the approaches of the EU. 60 First, if there is and when there is a signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, it will be one big push in the work. I agree, but he'll be very slow. Only pre-accession funds will be opened, will compete for certain funds, certain chapters will be opened, where we will have to prepare, at all levels, in all ministries, in all bodies, institutions, etc., and this will mean the opening of new reform processes within BiH, and among them a key – constitutional one, starting within a few days, with debate in Brussels. You've seen what dynamics you've seen since the PIC session. I don't think we're gonna have anything to discuss every six months at the plenary sessions, and that's why I'd be for erasing point 9 in this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1700	Thank you very much. Mr. Zno. Did you get that? Here, just, you can, you're registered. I got it, so it's your turn.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1701	Thank you. ...I won't discuss it. I, by the way, have been meaning to trouble this hoax of ours lately after the declarations and resolutions. Guys, we're gonna do a lot of things, even if it seems to me, relativize and reduce. I don't mean this in particular right now, I mean generally resolutions and declarations. That's why I'm saying this. The resolution or declaration, although not the same, are two different forms, must mean something. She must have a message, not to say, conditionally, she should be ordered. We have the next resolution, the resolution on BiH's readiness for NATO integration. I know, I took part in her work and I know this is about the ordered resolution. This resolution needs for what will happen in the month of the fourth in Bucharest. And this resolution is absolutely on that plan, so she's ordered. We've sat down, agreed, and that's what we are, even in some little things, indicated what and how she should be, what she should look like. So, it's almost predetermined and form. That we don't follow the lead to make a conclusion out of everything and make a resolution out of everything. I don't know if I'm right, but I'm really an opponent at every session of five resolutions, ten conclusions, etc. In four years, we haven't made any resolution, as I recall, any declaration and we haven't made ten conclusions, but in two years we passed 149 laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1702	Thank you very much. 61 We have this resolution in front of us. We have the proponent's consent to rule out the 10th point, eliminate, download, which means automatically. Come on, as soon as the proposings agree, I would like to interpret that there is no need for us to declare that point 10, but we also have Mr Filipović's proposal to point 9, because he considers it too often every six months, that there will be nothing to talk about, too. The promoter once again asked for a word, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1703	It might be good to keep it this way, to just add, or, in accordance with needs.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1704	And here you mean at point 9.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1706	But we have business defined it when the College can determine, both at home, plenary sessions: according to needs. That's exactly what it says.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1707	Well then, then it wouldn't be extra here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1708	I'd take this off, so here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1709	Okay, come on, I agree, if that's a distraction.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1710	If you agree, then I suggest that I put it to the vote, with the approval of the motionor, points 9 and 10, taken off - they are no longer in the proposal. We have this resolution in the form it is. I'm putting her to the vote. Prepare to vote. You can vote. I'm closing the vote. Is this well done? The resolution received nine "for", four "abstained". Does he have an entity?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1711	There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1712	There's no entity. No, but that's why we are, this is the case. What does this mean? 62
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1713	Are we gonna make a deal...?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1714	The College has saglasan, again, that this resolution be passed. I'm not really thinking, but here we go, playing a little game, that's all. We agree and this resolution is passed. Moving to point 18. Ad. 18. Proposal for a resolution on Bosnia and Herzegovina's readiness for NATO integration – Proposer: delegate Ivo Miro Jović You have received a motion for a resolution proposed by delegate Ivo Miro Jović. You've reached the Joint Defence and Security Commission's report. The House of Representatives adopted this resolution. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. No one's interested. Prepare to vote on this resolution. You can vote. I'm closing the vote. The resolution is well, almost, complete, this resolution has received 12 votes "for", has an entity, sufficient number, entity majority. So adopted. Moving to the next item of the agenda: Ad. 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Long-term Strategic Partnership Agreement between the BiH Ministry of Security and the Geneva Centre for Democratic Control of the Armed Forces (DCF)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1719	64 [[no microphone turned on]] [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-1.u1720	Come on, as far as I'm concerned, 16:30, here's 16:30. The seat's over at 3:00.
