ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22065	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 41st session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At today's session, apart from the representatives, our regular guests were invited: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs. I welcome all present representatives and guests. Also, I welcome representatives of public information funds. According to service information, I'd like to conclude that there are 35 representatives present at the session. Jovan Todorović and Sead Jamakosmanović are justly absent. Representatives Martin Raguž and Vinko Zorić announced a delay. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you received a revised and updated agenda proposal this morning. Before moving on to meeting the amendments and supplementing the agenda proposals, I would like to inform you on issues that have been reached in the House College after the entity majority has not been reached at the 39th and 40th sessions. The College agreed on the following issues: the House's decision to consider the Law amending the Law on State Service in BiH institutions; after it was not adopted by the members of the College, Lozančić, Belkić and Živković for an emergency procedure, it is now a shortened procedure under Article 126; further, on the proposal for the conclusion of Mr Husein Nanić's representative in the context of the UN General Bajazir's Jašarević for the conclusion of the Transport and Connections Committee; on the initiative of Representative Branko Dokić on the presentation of the Presidency of BiH Presidency, Haris Silajdžić at the UN General Assembly in New York and Council of Europe's representatives in Strasbourg; on the financial reports of the RTVBiH on 31.12.2007, with the opinion of the mandated auditor and on the request of the Ombudsman Bajazirjan's report on the subject to public legislation. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Rules of Procedure, on the agreement reached on those issues, I am calling on the House to report and to conclude that the acts on which the harmonisation has been carried out have been adopted. 2 Since the agreement referred to in point 5 is a request for an emergency procedure under Article 127. The Rules of Procedure, after reaching agreement on an emergency request, were adopted, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement was incorporated into the agenda of this session for discussion and voting, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. In addition to this item, the agenda is complemented by the inclusion of the Commission Report of the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budgets in the context of the review of the financial reports by RTVBiH. In fact, the conclusions contained in the opinion are contentious. From the 15th point, the second indent, the conclusion of representative Husein Nanić was excluded, as agreement was reached on this conclusion and it was adopted. As you can see, the 11th item of the agenda has been reformed. The 6th item of the proposed agenda was removed, which is the Proposal for a Law on the BiH Agency for the Development of the Information Society in the second reading, as the competent commission informed the College that the session, held on 26.11.2008, had unanimously decided to propose to the House College to postpone the draft law for the 42nd session, since there were more amendments to the bill and that the Council of Ministers on the same would like to make a statement. Finally, the final point of ‘Amendments to the House's membership’ was removed. Here, these are changes and additions to the agenda. You got the consolidated agenda proposal on the bench. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Dear Representative Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22066	Thank you. I would like to refer one initiative to point out that for the next session of this house... ‘The global financial crisis, its negative effects on the BiH economy and the measures to overcome the crisis’ we are all aware that panic is worldwide due to the financial economic crisis. Parliaments meet, measures are being taken, only our bh. The government is obviously weak or almost ineffective. I think that at that point or even better, it would be one plenary session of both homes, deserves this item of the agenda, and to be present as entity prime ministers, because, gentlemen dear, I don't know, here, you got this act from the Chamber of Commerce of the ZD Canton and in the Krajina at U.S.K. is also the same situation. We have people coming massively from Slovenia, staying out of work, closing low-investment plants, and the interest rate is growing, production is stopping, contracts are cancelled, our... industry has exported products there, contracts are being cancelled. People ask on the street what the state, they expect from the state, they don't know that the state can do a little, with entities it can and I think it should be, if not a plenary session, at least a part of the agenda, and that it will be right after the current issues, the first one, and that a discussion should be opened here and that we should propose measures to overcome this crisis and that the Council of Ministers is leading the strategy. I believe that we are required 3 to the citizens of BiH, because next year it will be very difficult, it should be acted urgently. The crisis won't get around us for sure. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22067	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22068	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, media representatives, on the basis of Article 65 of the Statute (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I submit the next proposal for a full agenda of the 41st session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. I propose the following point: ‘A consideration of the consequences of the draft law on the territorial organisation of the RS, which in the remaining two municipalities of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Costa Rica and the Bosnian Ship, the said entity, is abolished by the prefix of Bosnia. In addition to the proposal to include the mentioned item in the agenda, I also provide published information on this issue on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's website as a discussion material on this agenda point. Given the importance of this problem, I suggest that this be one of the first four points of the agenda. However, as we can see that today's agenda is also large enough for this session, here I leave the possibility that, possibly, if you in the College consider this point to be included for the next session of Parliament's House of Representatives. With this, I just want to say one more thing. In fact, Minister of Administration and Local Self-Government Zoran Lipovac officially said that the bill included a proposal to rename Bosnia and Herzegovina's Costa Rica to Costa Rica and the Bosnian Ship to Brod. He said that the public debate in Bosnia and Herzegovina has shown that most citizens in this municipality have accepted the name, whether, Kostanica and I quote this now, because this is scandalous: ‘because we felt that the term Kostanica is neutral and that it does not offend anyone.’ And the Bosnian prefix, it doesn't belong to any people, is equal to the property of both Serbian and Croatian and Bosniak and all other citizens in this country. It's really a big shame. And if we, as well as the state parliament, go through this kind of thing, through this kind of clocking of the name BiH and prefix of Bosnian or Herzegovic, it doesn't matter, it's really devastating for the BiH state. And even worse, what is said here about some percentages, says: ‘70% of citizens during the public debate.’ Here, we haven’t even started to talk about the census, and some already bid with percentages, etc. I'm afraid some have discovered the map before this census why they need a census! And that is why I am asking, so I suppose because of the vastness of today's agenda, so I leave you the possibility of holding the presidency to put this on the next item of the agenda, because this country's Parliament cannot go beyond such things as the parliament of no country in the world would go beyond the fact that the name of that country offends anyone. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22069	Thank you. Please only deliver in writing. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22070	Mr. Chairman, when the esteemed Mr. Bećirović appeared and began to mention the cities, I expected that from the position of the SDP he would praise the things that were happening in one of these municipalities and I assumed it would be the topic of his discussion. I thought they'd praise what's going on in Ship, that there 1,400 people have solved the issue of their existence, of good wages and a better future, and I thought it was an opportunity to say it here, because 1,400 people aren't little. It's important for the state that they live well. However, in the style of old demagogy that has been here for a long time, he finds some other things more important, which are not in this parliament's jurisdiction. In this country, it is precisely regulated what is in whose jurisdiction. Last time we had the same situation with other points of the agenda here. ... We said no one escapes any kind of debate, but you have to know exactly whose jurisdiction they are. If you want to discuss the powers of Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, then you can create a thematic session here, put the features and the rest, invite these people, so here we will take some time and we will do so. It has nothing to do with what you're talking about with names, because then you could ask why everything and one city in BiH isn't called Bosnian and all those who don't have a prefix Bosnian are against this state. That's how it turns out. And by some communist order, it should now show love for the state, we should, if that's the only measure to do it that way. I don't think this is a good introduction to today's session and I, for who knows which time, want to say this has nothing to do with the competencies of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. The people in the RS are doing the work they're in charge of, and we need to do our job for which we're in charge.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22071	Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22072	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, you see, first, counterpart Bahtić proposed the agenda item I support to be on the agenda, but it is unrealistic to demand that the meeting be attended by representatives of the entity government. It's not like we're going to order here, make conclusions that will apply or be obliged to realize entity governments, and we can't ensure that our conclusions are realized by the Council of Ministers that we chose here, or by those who chose him. So, I support finding this item of the agenda here – of course, we can invite anyone to come to that session – but must commit to the Council of Ministers to prepare material for that session. And, if this point goes for the next one, then there must be an obligation on the Council of Ministers to prepare the necessary material, and the Council of Ministers does not, of course, forbids that he is in the preparation of the material with anyone in this country, meaning from the municipalities to further data to support what Mr Bahtić was talking about, and that's all true. 5 As far as the second proposal is concerned, I propose that... the future College, before holding Parliament meetings, look at the agendas of the session of entity parliaments, cantonal parliaments, the government of entities, cantons, municipalities and see what can possibly be inserted into this session in order to deal with these issues as much as possible, and less with those that we need to solve here. The best thing would be for us to do all the other questions, as long as we don't solve ours, and not deal with what we actually need to do under the Constitution. I think we should deal with our questions and what's in our jurisdiction. Of course, no one disputes the possibility of anyone suggesting anything here at Parliament. But every story about issues that are not in our jurisdiction is pulling us away from what we need to talk about and what's in our jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22073	Thank you. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22074	Oh, I'll do it very briefly. Just to tell Mr. Kalabić that this agenda item has nothing to do with Rafirenija in the Bosnian ship, no one was talking about it. Why did he mention it, that's his problem. When that part of the agenda is done, we'll tell you what we think and we'll talk about it. All I'm saying is that in this country no longer can anyone be allowed to sat down and destroy the name BiH and prefix Bosnian. That's what only two people have done in the last 500 years, destroying the Bosnian prefix in the name of Bosnian Herzegovina cities. And it's not a coup against any people, because I repeat, that Bosnian prefix belongs equally to each other and to the third and the rest of this country. And, I just want to say, so, when that's the point of the agenda, here's what I suggest is that today we don't burden the session – that it be at the next session of the House of Representatives. I just want to say that we have to stop this practice, say it doesn't work like that anymore, but I think this is a warning to the international community and to see what their intentions are. No one here is naive to know what is behind the killing of a Bosnian prefix in the state of BiH and when we were saying whether it's ours or not – yes, it's ours. First of all, the BiH Parliament, because at the first session of the BiH Parliament, we all took an oath to defend the BiH state and its constitution. We do not defend it if we look at, in this state parliament, how in some parts of BiH the name BiH or prefix of Bosnian is killed. So here I am definitely proposing that this be the point for the next House of Representatives session.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22075	Dear Representative Rifat Dolić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22076	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests! 6 Ma, I would just like to remind you that in this house we have already had a debate on the Council of Ministers' Information on the impact of the financial crisis and the measures the Council of Ministers is taking or planning to take on its repression and mitigation. Also, at the last session of this house, we made two conclusions. One conclusion has been made that the Council of Ministers, within 30 days, makes ‘the strategy to combat the global problem of the financial crisis and recession’ and another conclusion is that this House and the Council of Ministers periodically, within three months, informs us of this issue and of the taken over the three-month period. So, I don't see... Of course, the financial crisis and recession have advanced in the meantime and progressed from day to day, but I think we have that 30-day deadline that will expire in about 15 days and we will have that information at the conclusion of the previous session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22077	Thank you. Dear Representative Bahtić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22078	I'll tell Mr. Dolić first. Yes, Mr. Dolić proposed this initiative and we received a reply from the Council of Ministers. However, it was quite a hoot on the page and a half. Our government has only done so in the field of monetary policy. You know what hasn't even been adopted around the deposit and the Central Bank; but based on fiscal policy, on cutting costs, on spending cuts, we haven't done anything, and that's the key thing. So do you see it, Japanese economy, German, what's going on? Bundestag ambush. Our authority none, so I told my colleague Novakovic the entity, so there will be factory closure everywhere, there are already layoffs of workers, no investments, the same case in Banja Luka and Bihac and Sarajevo. And we need to call both prime ministers entity. My Bog, whoever comes, but I think it's our duty, people ask me. We've already been shut down in the Krajina, the people who are exporting to Italy. People want measures, they expect from the state, they think the state can grant subsidies. He's got state instruments that can help. And I believe that this point deserves very much the agenda and, Mr. Dolić, I support you, however, that response from the Council of Ministers, it is nothing. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I'll say that when it's that part of the agenda. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22080	Dear second vice-president Milorad Živković, business intervention. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22081	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we have gone wrong with the session for the simple reason that we have put the initiative into another segment, which is ‘Sends and Answers’, and in this segment we have given the initiative without further input and interpretation and the initiative, because you know that this initiative is going to be on the opinion of the Commission, then put it here on Parliament's vote and the initiative whether there will be a point of the agenda at all or not. I think it's wrong to introduce practice here to consider some other agenda today. At the same time, Mr Bećirović, who withdrew by including the item from this agenda for another session and considering the agenda of another session. We need to stop this practice and talk about today's agenda. On the other hand, in addition to the fact that business is not in order to consider the proposal for today's agenda, these agenda points are also in conflict with the Rules of Procedure, that is, the point proposed by Mr Bećirović, because it simply does not concern the jurisdiction of this parliament. Proposals for the laws of other parliaments, i.e. entity parliaments, are being considered in entity parliaments. They have mechanisms that dispute if these laws threaten anyone and their vital national interest in the way they've worked so far, and in particular it's not worth considering the consequences of something that hasn't been passed yet. These are hypothetical considerations, as we can consider the hypothetical consequences of SDP's work over the last two years, etc. I expected the SDP to raise the issue of the Algerian group, but here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22082	Dear Representative Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22083	I must say, I really expected Mr. Živković, when he already wants to take this agenda off, that at least he'll come out with some serious arguments not to put this on the agenda. First, he is trying now at this point to break one practice that has been in Parliament so far. Kolega Dokić and many others proposed agenda points at one session, and then it was listed at another session. And in particular, the argument is entirely on some glass legs where it is said: this is not the authority of the BiH state, when it is to protect its name of the BiH state, or in this case prefix of Bosnian, but it is therefore within the jurisdiction of the RS Assembly to discuss what members of the BiH presidency are doing. Well, come on, don't really let us be a little funny here in some situations. Either we start acting seriously and make some serious argument, or we really don't want to discuss it at all. My proposal is clear. He's in line with our practice so far, and I have no real intention, no matter what you or anyone else is saying, to answer to it anymore. So, the proposal has been delivered and it's clear what I want.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22084	Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22085	Oh, I expected this to stop. However, it is obvious that other goals are more than this. I think this is the destruction of the integrity of this home in this way of discussing other people's responsibilities, although we have a million of our problems that we haven't ended and we don't know how we're going to end them. I expected that at least an argument would be given as to what was wrong with the legislative procedure on the subject discussed by Mr Bećirović. What happens if everything is in accordance with the law? Do you expect me to come back to Banja Luka and ask the man who owns the Hotel Bosnia in the city center not to change his name at any cost? That it will be interpreted here as a coup against the BiH state on his part? The man has a private hotel in downtown Banja Luka called Bosnia. And it's his personal right to leave her a name and change that name. The right of local communities and everything else we're talking about, the laws have been clearly regulated and I think this really, in this way, banalizing, and it's hard for the BiH state to defend it in this way. If this is the state's defense that it is better to call it the Bosnian Ship in ruins where people do not have bread or in a variant where people will live well and decide that their local community will, in accordance with the law; and there is no problem, if this Parliament has any jurisdiction, to intervene immediately and to see what our business is. I don't think it makes sense. We've warned multiple times that we're not doing it here, but obviously some other things are more important than the work that we're supposed to do, so let's do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22086	Dear Representative Bakir Izetbegović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22087	It's not a local question if they'll keep those towns called Bosnian. It's a big and dangerous political issue. And as for the law and legality, it's legal to call Brcko, the Bosnian Brcko. People can decide that in the local community: Bosnian Sarajevo, you know! Being born in one country, and then hating her name, you know, being against it, feeling offended by it, that's one schizophrenic position and dangerous to other peoples. And it can lead to any scenarios in this country again. I will personally review my relationship with the Prudish Agreement, which was very benevolent after such a provocation. Do we now need to make a list that will help clean up everything in BiH from that Bosnian and some state property there and that. I'll think this through. We go to do something, and then we stick our finger in our eye after a few days. It is a huge political issue and a dangerous situation in which non-Serbs are expelled from the Bosnian ship and then said he has the right to decide whether to call it Bosnian, because it offends someone. In BiH, it offends someone to call it Bosnian. He's really crossing the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22088	Dear representative Milica Marković, replica. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22089	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, this House could listen and accept that someone defends the name of Bosnian in a situation where he would do the same with other names or names that refer to those who make up this country, which are the names, or words that come from the nations that make up the three constituent nations of this country. We remember very well, it wasn't long ago, when yours, Mr. Izetbegović, the president launched an initiative to bring names to the Constitutional Court or to any court to be removed from all cities where Serbian is mentioned. So it even questioned the name of the RS that it could not be Serbian, because it offends someone. So here he can insult someone by speaking Serbian or not Croatian or Bosniak, but he can't insult Bosnian. At all costs, it must not offend, even if there is a justification for it and it has been a foothold that the government and that the entity is in charge of the Law on Local Administration and Organization, this must not be questioned. It is truly absurd and impossible to listen to such an explanation that you are seeking to protect the Bosnian name, and in doing so you have denied, you and your party have denied everything that reminded you of one people, where, with the other two constituent nations, this country exists and survives.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22090	Dear Representative Izetbegović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22091	It's just absurd what you're saying, you know. It is not called a Bosniak or Muslim ship, so that Hrvat and Srbin feel hurt in it. You cannot call one place in which Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak live only by Srbin or only by Bošnjak or only by Hrvat. Either the forests that belong to all of us call the Serbian forests, or the mails that belong to all of us to call the Croatian mail. Or put on some hill over Mostar, which belongs to both Srbin and Bošnjak, the Croatian cross. You can't do that. And Bosnia belongs to all of us and Herzegovina. Therefore, no one here should be offended by the name of Bosnian. We should all love BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22092	What did he say to you?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22093	That's what you heard, Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22094	15 minutes off. I'm calling on the extended House College to meet at Chamber 2/II. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, please take your seats to continue our work. We're continuing our work. 10 I would like to inform you that at a meeting of the Extended College we have concluded that here we ask all MPs to give up the announced replicas. And all club presidents have accepted to ask representatives in their clubs to give up their replicas. I want to inform you that so far we have no proposals to supplement today's agenda. We have two initiatives that have been used by the MPs in breach of their business procedures, so they ran at the wrong time. I would like to remind you that in the agenda, we have the agenda item "Advocacy Questions and Answers", within which each representative has the opportunities and initiatives to launch, so please, if you have an initiative, wait until this item of the agenda. If you have any suggestions for supplementing or modifying today's agenda, please do so within this point. Thank you. And now I want to ask who's reporting for additions or changes to the agenda? Dear Representative Mirjana Malić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22096	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, I have indeed one quite small technical intervention in the way of drawing up today's agenda and I'm really going to stay within the agenda point. Namely, the usual practice of drawing up the agenda and preparing it is to indicate who is the legislator or initiative on the agenda. It was also done in preparation for today's session, except at point 10. Proposed fiscal register law, it says: first reading. All the materials we've received say that the promoter is Jozo Križanović. I know it's a small thing and I want to believe it's a small thing, but for the record, I'd like to point out that the proposer for the 10th point of the agenda is on behalf of the SDP Club, Jozo Križanović. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22097	Thank you. It's a massage, and it's gonna be fixed, so once we figure out the agenda, the stenogram will get in just like you said. Are there other suggestions for supplementing the agenda? I don't have any reports. Thank you. I find that the 41st session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives has the following 1. Approval of the minutes of the 39th and 40th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Agents' questions and answers; 3. Proposed by representatives Jerka Ivanković Lijanović, Hadzhi Jovan Mitrović and Sefer Halilović to vote in favour of the BiH Council of Ministers' mistrust; 11 4. Review of the European Parliament Resolution on Bosnia and Herzegovina, adopted at the plenary session of 23.10.2008 in Strasbourg (proposed by Parliament representative Denis Bećirović of the 40th session of the House, held on 19.11.2008); 5. Sadik Bahtić's request for consideration of BiH State Property Bill Proposal for a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure; 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Public Procurement Act, in accordance with Article 127 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure – Proposer Bajazit Jašarević; 7. Proposal for a Bosnia and Herzegovina Aviation Act (first reading); 8. Proposal for a law on the Agency for the provision of services in the air navigation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 9. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Public TV System of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 10. Proposal for a Law on fiscal cash registers (first reading) – Proposer Jozo Križanović; 11. Review of the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission on a held information session on the problem of organised crime and corruption with the proposal for a conclusion, and (a) Analysis of the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Strategy for the fight against organised crime and corruption – applicant of the materials Ministry of Security of BiH b) Reports, Opinions and conclusions on corruption and organised crime – applicant of the BiH Ministry of Justice; 12. Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Witness Protection Programme in BiH (second reading); 13. Report from the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the settlement of commitments under the account of old foreign exchange savings – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading); 14. Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on Azra Hadžiahmetović's request for an examination of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Salary and Compensation of Employees in BiH's Institutions under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 15. Report from the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on - Proposal for Conclusions 5 and 6. Transport and transport committees on the topic of the current situation in BiH Radio and implementation of the reform of the Public TV System in BiH, - Proposal for the conclusions of MPs Drago Kalabić and Joza Križanović in the context of the discussion on the proposal for conclusions of the Transport and Connections Committee; 16. Report by the Commission on the efforts to reach agreement on the opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget for the purpose of considering the financial reports of the BiH Radiotelevision, on 31.12.2007; 17. Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on Proposal for the conclusion of Mr. Momčilo Novaković on the discussion of the Information on the current security situation in BiH, with special reference to terrorism; 18. Report by the Committee of the College on Efforts and Consent on the Proposal for Conclusions of the SDA Representatives Club on the debate on State Analysis in the CIPS Project, with a specific reference to the issue of false documents; 12 19. Proposal for a conclusion on the development of an activity plan to resolve the accommodations of BiH institutions (proposed by representative Husein Nanić from the 40th session, held on 19.11.2008). Moving to first point Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22099	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22100	Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22101	Dear Chairman, I appeal to Rule 65 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. And I'd like to get right to the agenda so we can figure out what we're up to right now. It is true that there is a special point: initiatives and issues. We have prepared initiatives and questions. This is about the agenda. And I suggested a point in today's agenda. In doing so, I stressed, if you consider it a burden on the agenda, I leave that amount of flexibility to conclude that item on the agenda today, that it will be on the agenda of the next session. And I remind you that this is a practice that was valid until this session of the House of Representatives, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. I would just like to know if this is going to be a part of the agenda today, or if you think it's going to be a part of the agenda at the next session, how did we do it in a series of cases here at the sittings and even at the last session of Parliament? That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22102	Today will certainly not be on the agenda, because we have already established the agenda, and your initiative to include in the agenda of the next session will be processed in line with your request at today's session. Moving to the first item of the agenda: Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 39th and 40th session of the House of Representatives Your records were sent to you by fax in 28.11.2008. I'm opening a debate. 13 Dear Representative Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one technical intervention on part of the 39th page, the last paragraph, the sentence reads: "According to the proposal of representative Joza Križanović, "for" voted 16 MPs." Watch out, this is 16, Federation 13, and RS two. So, to just agree is 15 or 16, and then this number, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22105	Thank you. And by looking at the stenogram, here it is going to be removed, it's going to be turned on exactly as the stenogram says. Are there any more reported? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) /No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22108	The application to the 40th session record refers to a portion of the text on page 8. On the occasion of the debate on the appointment of the BiH Ombudsman, on this page 8th, a little wider exposure was given by colleagues Raguž, Kadrić and Kalabić, and Momčilo Novaković, a little less. And it is said that Jozo Križanović and Sefer Halilović supported Martin Raguž's presentation. I think counterpart Bećirović made a similar remark on the record once. So this is about, I think, the unequal archaic treatment of those who took part in the debate. And we seem to agree once that we will have one, to say, the same relationship with these discussions. Because you see, it is very incorrect to say that my colleague, Sefer Halilović, and I have only supported the presentation of Martin Raguž, which is true. I supported even the presentation of fellow fellow teammate Momčilo Novaković. But I guess that's not all we came forward to support them in their presentation, so I guess we said something, too, and I'm asking one, let me say, a fair relationship with these discussions. 14 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22109	You are right that we have concluded that all MPs are equally treated and should be removed in the text of this minutes, in accordance with the stenogram of the session. Are there others? No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the second item of the agenda: Ad. 2. Agents' questions and answers From last to this session the answers were received, the following representatives were asked questions: Milorad Živković of the Council of Ministers, asked at the 35th session; Niko Lozančić of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, asked at the 36th session; Velimir Jukić of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, asked at the 38th session; Husein Nanić and Šemsudin Mehmedović of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, asked at the 38th session; Jozo Križanović of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly received a part of the answer, asked at the 39th session and Husein Nanić of the Secretariat's College, asked at the 39th session. Are there any registered representatives for comments received? Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22111	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, the guest of honor, I welcome you. I'd just like to draw attention to the answer I got from the Ministry of Transport and Communications. If you remember, I asked the question: "What about the purchase of software related to the distribution of CEMT licenses." Unfortunately, I have received one answer that I believe is not satisfied with either Minister Ljubić, who signed this response. And why am I saying that? After finding in response that the tender failed in the first attempt to select a contractor, to say so, or a software supplier, after the renewal of the competition procedure and tender, says as follows: 'In the next period, decisions will be made which are the modules that need to be made priorityally and according to the means available.' It means the Ministry doesn't know what they want yet. I guess by the end of this minister's term this job won't be done at all. So here I am expressing my dissatisfaction by solving this issue in such an unsuspecting way year after year. Namely, vehicles and trucks are shared by nationality, Croatian, Serbian and Bosniak trucks. Therefore, such distribution is unacceptable. And here, I want this opportunity to draw attention to these irregularities. 15 The second question is, How many new workers have been employed since the appointment of this Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, one of the ministers' ignoring relations is shown here, in the first place, for the reason that both the Constitution and the constitutionality of the people in BiH are ignored. Because despite the violated national balance of total staff in the ministry, the minister continues to take a step further and further make one imbalance. So let's say, of the officials and advisers of which there are seven, five are Hrvat, and two Srbin, there are no Bošnjak, that according to the Treaty of Action, six of them would be employed, three Hrvat and two Srbin and only one Bošnjak. I find this behavior unacceptable. I believe there are similar situations in other ministries, but this ministry is characteristic of this, and here I expect the minister to fix this situation, at least in this remaining part of his term of office.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22112	Thank you. The next is the second vice-president, Dr. Milorad Živković, a comment received.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22113	I received an answer from the foreign ministry, concerning the ATA Karnet agreement of BiH that would allow our young people who have, say, concerts in neighbouring countries not to customs their instruments, to speed up the agreement and to sign. I have received the answer that they have twice referred to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations for the matter of the agreement and have not received any response. I don't think this is an appropriate answer to my question and I expect the Foreign Ministry to be more involved in this and to tell us here whether this agreement will be considered at all. So I'm looking for an answer again.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22114	The next is Honourable representative Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say that I am satisfied with the intervention and the speed at which the College of our House responded to my question concerning the provision of better conditions, technical conditions for working on these sessions. You see, in answer to these questions it can be concluded that everything is in progress, that it will be solved, and this most important problem when it comes to sounding, we have actually received a guide on the handling of this device and a description of the technical characteristics of this device. We didn't ask for it, we didn't, we rightly concluded here that sound conditions weren't good and that we were looking for that solution. So I am not satisfied with part of the response of our services when it comes to solving the sound problem. And this other part about voting itself, lighting and air conditioning, I see that these problems are in progress, and I hope that they will be solved. 16 So with this part of the answer, I am very dissatisfied and I ask, if possible, that technical services be made aware that I can handle this better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22116	Thank you. If there are any more reported comments received, I don't see any reports. We're moving on to asking parliamentary questions. Dear second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković. Please sign in electronically for the sake of order.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22117	The issue is addressed to the foreign ministry, again concerning the ratification of certain agreements. It's just that today is December 3rd, it's International Day for Persons with Disabilities. In this congregation, we asked a similar question on April 4, 2008. 'When is it planned to refer to the assembly procedure for granting consent to ratifying the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities?' Nothing has been done since then. I find it quite convenient on this day to repeat our request and instruct the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Emergency to hurry with this. All the surrounding countries have signed this convention, and Croatia has ratified. BiH, which has over 350,000 people with disabilities, certainly deserves to be among the first to sign and ratify the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22118	Thank you. I don't have anyone e-mailed. Here it is, I got it now. Dear Representative Sadik Bahtić, and let the distinguished representative Rifat Dolić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22119	Thank you. In the last session, I asked the Council of Ministers one question: "Who has the right to protection and enhanced protection?" Now I'm asking a question again. 'I ask the competent institutions, I mean OSA and SIPA, to investigate alleged threats to individual politicians. I mean those threats to Tihić and Keba." Reason: In last session, and I have now asked a parliamentary question to examine this case, as the Assembly of the Bosnian-Poninian Canton in Gorazd unanimously adopted conclusions requiring 17 of the state institutions to take all measures to determine the truth about this case and the media heifer to the personality of Redža Bekte of Gorazd. As it is known, after this fictional attack, police have provided additional security for the two politicians mentioned and it costs this country. And if I'm right, you can see from a statement by the director of the Federal Police who said in the media that after checking and hearing several people there were no threats to Tihić and Keba. I think that the competent institutions should examine this case, I mean OSA and SIPA, in order to break this practice, because behind this is always a political background or a discredition of individual personalities. And yet this costs the state and goes to the burden of BiH citizens. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22120	Thank you. Next is the distinguished representative Rifat Dolić, and let the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22121	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have today one parliamentary question and one parliamentary initiative. The question of the Justice Minister at the Council of Ministers, Mr Čolak Bariša, was: 'What was the Cantonal Court in Bihac led by the Cantonal Court when, on three occasions, it annulled the decisions of the Municipal Court in Bihac and after a previous delay, on two occasions, carried out a postponement of the sentence for the convicted Abdić Hamdi, zvati the Bihac Tigar, who was 19. 11. In 2007 he received the Court of Justice's notice in Bihaq for the maintenance of the two-year sentence and is now at large thanks only to his flocks in the Cantonal Court of Bihac?' 'What has BiH's judiciary and competent institutions done against the fact that convicted of the same crimes, Pivić Emin, also from Bihac, for more than a year has not been responding to a prison sentence but is reportedly on the run, although it is a public secret that the police and courts in Bihaq are familiar with the address of his stay?' Hamdija Abdić and Emin Pivić have been sentenced to prison sentences of two and two and a half years after a long and famous judicial soap opera for the crimes of violence, racketeering, inflicting serious physical injuries and against personality. And sentence sentences became legal almost 14 months ago. To date, this famous mob and violent duo is at large thanks to the fact that in their mafia and criminal actions, they have pillows in the Cantonal Court of Bihac and thus prove that there is a lot of work to be done in this country and to be protected from those who, in a normal situation, should enforce the law and protect human and other rights of citizens. This solution, which I will attach to this parliamentary question, the municipal court in Bihac for anyone who respects and wants the rule of law and the rule of law, is the best proof that with judges and 18 justices who are hostages and flocks of criminals it can never be built. Isn't the paradox and our picture and the opportunity for the rightful convicted Hamdija Abdić, called the Tigar, to appear recently on the Federal Television show – Central Prison, instead of being in prison in Zenica or Bihac at the time of the sentence. My second question is therefore to report through a parliamentary initiative to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. 'I ask that the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, in accordance with the applicable rules, carry out an investigation into the circumstances in which, in concrete cases, the Cantonal Court in Bihaq, on three occasions, annulled the municipal court's decision and delayed the suspension of the sentence for Abdić Hamdi zvati the Tigar and, in the event of justification, to take the law of the envisaged measures.' The argument is the same as with the parliamentary issue, and I am also reporting a solution to the municipal court in Bihac since 19.11.2008, which rejects a request to postpone the execution of the prison sentence for Abdić Hamdi.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22122	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić, and let the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22123	Dear chairman, distinguished guests, representatives of NGOs and journalists, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, to begin with one commendation, thank you from the College, and most of all to the Secretary-General of the Professional Service for creating such conditions from this session for the normal work of journalists who now have phone lines, computers, internet connections and congratulations and I hope that they will make their role much easier. So, since they don't have the opportunity to thank each other, here's what I'm going to do and commend us, and most of all you from the College and the Secretary General and our Professional Service. And what to report, of course, you have a record from last session that was adopted, and on page 15 you have a fine writing of my initiative, and immediately on page 16, in the conclusions of Mr. Lozančić, the initiative of Slavko Jovičić will be processed by the Kolegijum. So today I'm starting my initiative, and this is not a race between my colleagues Bahtić and me, it's the least important to me who started it, but here's the record, because last time I did it. A colleague, Bahtić, requested the inclusion of the agenda point at the House of Representatives. I asked for a special session and today I will repeat it, both at home, although I am fully aware that these joint sessions are not effective. But this is the topic on which efficiency should be shown in some kind of, I'm not going to say 100 percent, definition, but in maximum, as much as possible. So today because of the public I will repeat again and only worse stands in the header left that it is a mistake, I think, or it is not a mistake, a club of MPs no, it is about my own initiative and of course I have support, except for Lazar Prodanović who throws away, but he's not a club. 19 So in accordance with Article 8. I refer to the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, with only one item on the agenda: 'The economic and economic situation in BiH, that is, the economic recession and collapse of the banking system in many countries of the world and Europe, and the reflection of the situation in BiH, i.e. on the economy and the overall economic situation in this country'. Since I read all this last time, and for a wonderful miracle, I'm not criticizing the press, no one has mentioned alive how we're going to survive, I said it in a more free form. And if I hadn't, God Bog, commented on what Mr. Silajdžić said in Sarajevo, I couldn't live with the press or if I'd gone further into the worse version and commented on what Dodik said in Banja Luka! So, when we want to do something here and this announcement of a group, thousands of workers, who will come before the Federal Parliament for an increase in wages, don't accidentally turn to this parliament. To warn us, because we have a very difficult first term in 2009 and, I would say, uncertainly. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And not yet, okay. Okay, if the SDP is leading, we believe you won't be. And keep going. So as an authorised promoter at several previous meetings of the Parliamentary House of Representatives, so this home, truly orally, I asked that the College of this House, together with the College of the House of People, schedule a joint session, with only one item of the agenda that I set up in the initiative. The situation in which BiH is located, or the entire economic and economic system certainly does not give any optimism that the country will manage to avoid an economic recession that is spreading as a tide to all countries of the world. Such a wave will by no means pass, nor bypass, be able to bypass BiH, on the contrary, it will feel even more here than in developed countries. And I don't want a variety of economics, under the assumption that it will be much easier for experts to overcome this difficult economic and economic crisis. Because we've been in recession since the end of the war, except no one wants to tell the citizens and, here, I'm saying it here today, and I said it last time and every time I said it. And I'm telling all of you that the recession has been going on for a long time. That is why I ask that the Council of Ministers, together with entity governments and all other institutions, not to bring them here, but to carry out early consultations and agreements with various institutions, experts, our agencies, the Chamber of Commerce, businessmen and all interested ones, prepare comprehensive measures to mitigate the severe economic crisis which, inevitably, will do much more harm to us in BiH than we are aware of right now and all the consequences. So, I want to warn you that emergency and realistic measures must be sought to overcome this situation, because it is quite certain that we are entering a very difficult 2009 and with uncertain measures to recover the overall economic situation. Namely, all available forces and potentials of this country must be engaged in creating better conditions of engagement, with a special emphasis on agricultural production, as our largest economic resource and potential. Also, there must be a mode of real tax and other relief for the export economy, if there are still interested in buying anything from us. The issue is also impenetrable, and it must be done urgently to increase excise duties on imported high-tariff and luxury goods. They must tax all luxury goods and rich privileges. I expect rapid reactions, of course, to both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly first, and therefore also to the Council of Ministers and all relevant specialised agencies of this country, and as soon as possible to make a special appointment, not to say extraordinary, meetings of both Parliament's homes, because the situation is unbearable for a huge number of citizens in BiH. A huge number of people, and if they do something, is in permanent fear of getting fired from work, and then it will produce even worse troubles, including the security instability of all citizens. So I ask you to talk about this problem, we are all interested and to just simplify – are we going to survive this and wait for next year?- I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22125	Thank you. Since you have called on the record from the previous session, I would like to inform you that your initiative in the same text has already been processed in the College of the House and that an initiative has been sent towards the College of the House of Peoples to convene the Joint College of both homes in order to discuss and possibly schedule a joint session of both homes. The next is the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22126	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, honored guests, I have two short parliamentary questions. First of all, I demand that I receive the answer: 'Why is BiH's representative still not appointed by the BiH presidency, although the current term expired three years ago and thus illegally representing BiH? When and how will he be chosen, then a new member?' The question is clear and unequivocal and I hope to get an answer. Following the provisions of the BiH Constitution, I appreciate that this is an area of the BiH presidency, which among other things is appointed by ambassadors and other international representatives from which more than two-thirds of the Federation of BiH is not elected from the territory. This is about selecting representatives in the Venice Commission, so the European Commission for Democratisation through law. I remind you of Article 175. The Dom's Rules of Procedure, which reads "The Competent Authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which conduct the procedures for the appointment of representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina for membership in international institutions, when drawing up a membership list, are obliged to hold consultations in the House." So, will there be a consultation and when? I would like to refer the second question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or the Minister. I wonder: 'When will the newly appointed BiH ambassador to the Swiss Confederation in Bern, his Excellency Jakob Finc, take office?' As I am informed, the ambassador was appointed in February of this year, the aggregate arrived in March of this year and had not yet taken office, a very important post in an extremely important diplomatic destination, so BiH's representatives to Bern, 21 BiH ambassadors in Bern. Is it more important for him to be the director of the State Service Agency, in which he still draws the strings, including proposing who will replace him and who will be the director and a number of other important functions he performs in this country, or to be the most significant representative of our country in this country? What are the reasons why Jakob Finci still hasn't taken over the position of ambassador to Bern? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22127	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of Prodanović. The next is a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22128	Thank you, Chairman. My question is short, referred to the Council of Ministers: 'When, or specifically, the day, month and year will be delivered to this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH The Action Plan for the realisation of the commitments arising from the signed Stabilisation and Association Agreement?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22129	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22130	Thank you. I have a very short question addressed to the Council of Ministers, and it says: "How many total persons per individual ministry in the Council of Ministers are working under the Act Treaty and what are the reasons for this practice?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22131	Thank you. There are no more applications to ask questions. I'm closing this agenda. 22 We move to the third item of the agenda: Ad. 3. Proposed by MPs Jerka Ivanković Lijanović, Hadzhi Jovan Mitrović and Sefer Halilović to vote for non-confidentiality of the BiH Council of Ministers You've received a proposal from this point. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we forwarded the proposal immediately after submission to the representatives, the Council of Ministers and the House of Peoples. We're from the Council of Ministers 17. 11. In 2008, they were informed that the Council of Ministers met with the proposal at the 66th session, held on 13.11. We didn't get a second statement from the Council of Ministers. In accordance with Article 146(1) of the Rules of Procedure: (1) 'Every Proposer shall have the right to explain to the House a proposal for a vote of no confidence to the Council of Ministers; the position (2) of this Article gives 'the right to the Council of Ministers to state their position, after which a general debate shall be opened.' Does anyone, on behalf of the promoter, want to explain this proposal? Honorable representative Hadzhi Jovan Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22133	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would just like to say why I am one of the signatories for this proposal to vote on the Council of Ministers' mistrust and immediately at the beginning to say from this day to the end of the term of office I will be, whoever proposes, if one of the proposals suggests this, if the Council of Ministers does not change its way of working. Although this Council of Ministers did not have my vote in office, I must admit that the programme objectives, which are agreed between representatives of political parties who today make up the parliamentary majority of BiH, have given me, as a man, some hope that this country will come out on some road, to say, salvation, economic recovery, etc., but in these two years, it has proved absolutely the opposite, which is that there are only the interests of political parties, that there is no struggle for the interests of the people, that there is no desire for the functioning of the state, that there is no desire to open borders and for the launch of any economic prosperity in this country. It is true that in the programme objectives, the general objective is to resolve which is related to the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, that this Council of Ministers did so and that it was done in its term of office. But I must say that the signing of this agreement has not solved the problems of this country because it has entered into signing unprepared, because this little business that works in this country simply has no protection and does not use those frameworks in which there is the possibility of protecting the economy of this country, given the impact that will take place in the coming period. It is evident that here today political party representatives are also proposing an actual point of economic crisis that will hit BiH, but I must say it will be really late. No measure, and which they brought in and had in mind to bring in, the Council of Ministers did not implement, nor will they implement it. I think it's so late that we're going to have something similar here next year as every session starts, one political propaganda and one fight just to get there by the end of 23 2009, and then there's probably going to be a coalition collapse, because we're having elections, but I don't know who's going to choose this parliament anymore, if we haven't done one step so far, and if we haven't done anything to protect and what little we've managed to do in this country. The public administration reform and the reduction of the administration in BiH have been committed here. We are the eyewitnesses that during this period the most employed public administration of all levels, from local level, entity level, republican level, and I must say that there has been this position that today those who should be the foundations and holders of this state, that is the economy, that is production, are in a very invisible position, and we are still looking for a solution to employment in the administration and we even need to expand the capacity of the office so that we can solve these issues or what we have promised the people. I think the people's promise was to open jobs in the economy and in the production, not in the administration, because there will come a time when those who are employed in the administration will also be disappointed. So here I'm not dividing into the state alone, but from the local level of structure they've been trying to hire as much as possible here. Where they should be most satisfied, where they should be paid the safest and best – it is production. Unfortunately, today these people are in suspense and not to say that today it's hard to find a production worker when we have this situation and this image that we've led to and who we're taking part in here and who voted on this council of ministers that doesn't work like, say, an independent body that's chosen from here rather than depending on the political structures of those who have proposed them. There was a commitment here about one key thing that is crucial to this country – that the constitution will be adopted. I think that the constitution and reform of the constitution would solve many issues and all reforms, I would say, overnight. Unfortunately, here we are also brought to the fact that none of this is there, and I believe that there will be no next year, but there will be a story about how something has been arranged somewhere, but at least it has been negotiated in institutions where there is certainly a solution when something is agreed that has been done. Leading a policy of balanced economic development, too, absolutely none of it. The incentive for the development of agriculture, etc., the reduction of the external trade deficit, everything Mr. Lijanović said and all those who were once, at least, in the economy before, and in production, without distinctions whether it is the interest of Mr. Lijanović, as a man who deals with production, etc., we should have thought very carefully about the proposal of that law that was coming, and not lead to this level that we simply have a kind of ridicule in this House, and essentially today of these MPs is the proposal that we should sit down and talk. Today it's more political propaganda than true desire because I don't think there's gonna be anything... that we're just too late. Strengthen the process of returning refugees and displaced persons? It can be said that it is partially resolved in places but 80% of BiH has not resolved the issue, and that these things are also highly politicised. It is politicised depending on which political structure it comes and where the political structure has simple support. These are the reasons why I supported something like this, aware that the structure today in this House will not support, majority, but at least to remember in 2009 when it comes to the end and when what I personally think will happen, this structure will fall apart, talk about these things that we are talking about today, condemn each other, and basically all three sides are guilty and will be blamed for the problems that are going to happen, they will answer. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22134	Thank you. The following was reported by distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22135	He used to be a colleague of the Sefer.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22136	I have applications here in front of me.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22137	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I heard a good joke that can paint a part of the work of the Council of Ministers, and then some of the reasons for his shift. The man killed his wife and came to trial, and the judge asked him, "Why did you do it?" He said, 'I came out of the way home and my wife and my neighbor in the bedroom,'...explained the whole situation and I agree, come on, I said, okay. In 15 days I came back, again the same situation. Let's get another explanation, I'll take the argument again. In 15 days, the same situation again, but to make it even worse, I look at the heater turned on to the maximum and the current is running out! I couldn't help it anymore. I killed both of them. On a similar principle, I analyse the work of the Council of Ministers, which these two years persistently, often, especially when neighbours are concerned, is doing the wrong thing but in this economic part, it goes beyond measure. If we look at the deficit that ended with 6 billion in 2006, and the agreement on the formation of the Council of Ministers obliged the ruling six to cut it, because it was really too big, it rose to 8. This year it will reach 10 billion marks,... even worse that deficit is 30% with neighbours. And all the time, the Council of Ministers rejected any measure that would help reduce the deficit. The law on the protection of domestic production has been rejected every time, a proposal to amend the Excise Taxation Act last year in the tenth month has been rejected here. These two laws would bring 300 to 400 million marks into the budget. Now, after a year, we see how precious these money would be, because the Federation, cantons, countys don't have enough resources, they all have to do rebalancing, mostly from those developmental items, because the administration isn't determined enough to reduce. If we look at that tax policy, one example of a bad policy where we have the biggest luxury taxes, and at least, the opposite: the smallest luxury taxes, and the biggest taxes on life and work in BiH! One vivid example is cigarettes. I bought two packs of cigarettes. We have a box of Marlboro cigarettes from a Switzerland producer that costs us 3 stamps. In front of the manufacturer's factory, this box costs 10 marks and still can't be consumed in any public place. So we forgive 7 marks on each pack of cigarettes and allow it to be consumed in BiH anywhere and is often available in cases and children under 18 years of age. Also, we have a box of "Ronhila" which costs 2 stamps for us, and in neighbouring Croatia in front of the factory where it is produced it costs 4 stamps. So we're giving two stamps again. In neighbouring Croatia, too, there is an announcement of an increase in excise duties by double, so it will cost 7 or 8 marks, smoking is prohibited, as it also makes more damage than it benefits with such high taxes. And our citizens, especially young people, are looking at schools if there are any directions to carrying cigarettes beyond 25 borders because it is the most profitable part of the job and the only survival. And on the other hand, we have taxes on life, very large, from bread, milk, etc., we have pay taxes enormously large, although we have unemployment over 40%. The economic crisis, where we have been told this year: it will bypass BiH, it will not hit BiH, it will not spill from other countries! Today I looked at "Dnevna Avaz" that BiH's economy is threatened by disaster, the president of the Employers' Association, on all sides of it, lay off workers and the Council of Ministers doesn't think anything should be done, let alone that something had to be done last year to have the effects of it today and not to have the situation that we have. These are just some of the elements that should replace this Council of Ministers, select some new people to try to do what the Council of Ministers has failed to do in the next two years, because there is a deadline here today. If you don't bring it in now, then it'll be too short time for something to change. All governments are doing some inventory in the first 100 days of what they've done. I didn't want to do it in the first 100 days, but I did it, here, almost after two years, because I understand the overall difficult situation in which something should be done. If we look at the programming goals based on which they got the chairs, and here we see that no programming goal is fully realized. If we analyze and discuss here in this home, then most of you have often shown dissatisfaction with the work of the Council of Ministers, not attending meetings, here as there is no one from the ministers today. I don't think we should take any further responsibility for the unhappiness within the Council of Ministers, and I suggest we say this today, to try to reach a new council. If we don't do it today, then we've lost deadlines, and then all we have left is to offer our mandates to the citizens to evaluate both our work or to eventually choose some new people who will lead this country better into... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22138	I thank the esteemed representative Ivanković. The next is distinguished representative Sefer Halilović, and may the distinguished representative Rifat Dolić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22139	The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, I will, of course, say only a few sentences in favour, as one of the signatories of this initiative on the replacement of the Council of Ministers, although the predecessors have largely focused on the main problems but, in my opinion, there are still a few of which I have joined this initiative. Protecting domestic production and all that comes from it as a consequence of BiH's economy? It is truly incomprehensible that the adoption of laws on the protection of domestic production is delayed, and in the end, we will have to face this problem, and the fact... that this year we will cross 10 billion marks into the deficit, and, for the sake of comparatively, I would remind you only that before the war in the former Yugoslavia, BiH was the only republic whose surplus was higher annually by a billion and 26 200 billion to 500 million dollars a year. So it's about the same space, it's about the same potential, it's about the same people, but obviously something fat doesn't work in this whole story. The reasons why I joined this initiative are, according to a report from relevant international institutions, BiH is the most corrupt country in the region and that there is, quote: 'all the characteristics of the failed state in conflict with crime and corruption due to the coup between authorities and crime'. In front of this fact that we have spoken of here several times by the Council of Ministers, of course, shut up. And it's been over two years, even though many things are familiar without doing anything about it. Third: poverty and unemployment are the biggest problems BiH citizens face. And unfortunately, on this point, we are the leading country in the region, despite all the above. When we voted on the Council of Ministers, I was one of the debaters who said it was an unprincipled coalition composed of mutually opposed party programmes and projects and would certainly not be able to agree on any important issue for BiH and that it would continue to persist and insist on something called nationalist rhetoric, because nationalist rhetoric draws public attention from the main problems of secondary ones. Inside this, I don't think there's anything to say anymore, because here we are, here we are, and here at the House of Representatives, although the House of Representatives has reached a conclusion and has committed to making public transfers of these sessions, there are no televisions, except when it's in her interest, when it's being discussed, and it would be useful for citizens to see what we're talking about here sometimes, but even though there's no TV cameras, we've been wasting time here for some hours on a completely unnecessary nationalist rhetoric. We lost an hour today on something that could have been resolved by voting in two minutes. We're going to lose, obviously, when it comes to the agenda, we're going to lose a lot of time at the shooting, and we're not going to be dealing with any major problems. I will now list only two more drastic examples from which to conclude that the Council of Ministers is completely indifferent when it comes to crime and corruption, and I can get out of it, let them draw conclusions whatever they want. First, I spoke in this parliament, and I raised the question of the 8 billion and 600 million that came for reconstruction, reconstruction and reconstruction of BiH, for which the parliamentary commission of this parliament found no clue. At the time, the chairman of this house was the current chairman of the Council of Ministers. The members of the parliamentary commission were, and are sitting here today, more than 50% of the members of the commission, which was then formed. I saw it in a stenogram from the meeting of these parliamentary committees. Although I have raised this question twice to finally establish the fate of those 8 billion and 600 million marks that are unknown, and what has the High Representative been talking about here in this house since then, everyone has been silent and probably has reason to remain silent. The second question I spoke of several times, and what you would say... was given to me by the former chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Terzić, who said several times, in his statements, that the black market in BiH swallows annually between 5 and 6 billion marks, meaning that these 5, i.e. 6 billion marks end up in private pockets and that is very much related to these two previous issues that I was talking about. Nothing on this matter has been done, but I would dare to make one of my own free estimates: that this black market is still getting stronger and that it will increase, as inefficient as the government is that it will increase further. So it's obvious that there's a very strong and powerful force between government and crime, between the owners and criminals, and 27 doesn't even need to talk about it. The latest arrests of some small criminals around BiH once again confirm the need for small criminals to be taken off their heads in Bosnia, and large criminals to take off their hats. From all that I have stated, I think... that if the Council of Ministers, if anything, what, even for moral reasons and responsibility to the citizens of this country, would be required to resign only, and if not, that this parliament should vote him out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22140	I thank the esteemed representative Halilović. The next is the esteemed representative of Rifat...; business intervention the esteemed representative of Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22141	I apologize, Mr. Chairman. You know – to let go for a moment that is not a respected business obligation that at least 20 and 30 days from delivery to the Council of Ministers we have this on the agenda – it's been through for 30 days, but okay, what's there, and we can't put the thing back. Article 145 says the Council of Ministers can submit... opinions and opinions. We've got the Council of Ministers' position, which is not an attitude, but tells us they've met this. All right, they can do it. However, Mr. Chairman, Article 146 says the promoter has the right to state his position and explain, and we have just heard three promoters who have signed this together and each of them has expressed its position. The same Article 146 in the second position says that after the proposings state their position that the Council of Ministers can state its response and position, after which the debate is opened. I would just ask you to understand that there is not a single minister here in the O.R., I apologize to the gentleman who is a deputy of one minister but he certainly didn't come here, I suppose, with the capacity to present the Council of Ministers' position on this, so that it only happens to be so commercially for a single culture... that we may even be aware that no one from the Council of Ministers here is present and that for these reasons we can't expect them to bring out what they can, so if that is the case, if you already have no intention of taking a break to check, maybe they don't know that we're discussing this, so maybe they come out of their position and then move on to the debate. So I would just ask that before Mr. Dolić answered, but also naturally I answer for the discussion when I hear them, if they are not there, after you realize they are gone, then I will naturally say something. Well, thank you very much. I'm just asking you to keep that in mind and consider this and my application for discussion as soon as we know what this is all about.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22142	Thank you. 28 Here we find, as you all see, that at this moment we have no chairman or members of the Council of Ministers here in the hall. They expressed their attitude through a letter that you received from knowledge, so that each one of us can be treated accordingly. They were timely informed of today’s session and the agenda of today’s session, and that is what the College and I could personally do and do in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I have information that the Council of Ministers is having a meeting of the Council of Ministers at the moment. Why they scheduled it at the time of the House, it's a matter again for the Council of Ministers. Here, I hope you're satisfied with this answer. The next is the distinguished representative Rifat Dolić, and let the distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22143	Gentlemen, the chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, to be honest, debate and vote on the Council of Ministers' trust in this environment as it is today in both this Parliament and BiH, I personally see as another tragic Bosnian soap opera and, unfortunately, a clean waste of time. The colleagues who submitted the Untrusted Initiative to the Council of Ministers had and could state a hundred reasons why this initiative was justified and there is only one reason why such an initiative was condemned in advance to failure. There is no reason why this Council of Ministers would get a passing assessment of this parliament, but the chairs, power and power are so powerfully homogenising the ruling six that such discussions are just a waste of time. The concept on which this Council of Ministers from this perspective began its mission two years ago was a beautiful story for broad folk masses. That story was too beautiful to be real, and it proved to be almost the same day Parliament confirmed the appointment, and it continued to this day. It is clear that this House has no capacity to vote today against the Council of Ministers because it is such political mathematics, but I still expect some benefits from today's debate. I expect the ruling six and the Council of Ministers to be at least a little ashamed after today's debate and say to themselves – people, this doesn't make sense, this doesn't go any further, and that, if nothing else, there are certain changes. According to previous two years of work, this Council of Ministers has shown in each field the manners that BiH has drawn to the European bottom and, instead of bringing BiH closer to Europe, we are sending BiH citizens to look for work. My objections to this Council of Ministers have been sorted into three groups. The first group is indolence in creating conditions for BiH's European path. The European path for BiH has no alternative, and this is a priority for all BiH citizens. That, judging by the behavior, everyone seems to have seen it better than the Council of Ministers. I don't think there's much more to this, and she'd probably take longer. The second group of my objections is the unseriousness and irresponsibility towards the Parliamentary Assembly and MPs. In its work, this Council of Ministers completely ignored the role of Parliament's assembly and MPs and held up to us as much as it did to last year's snow. Let us remind ourselves of how embarrassingly few legislative proposals and initiatives come to this House from the Council of Ministers, and let us remember how many ignored conclusions this house has, how many ignored parliamentary issues and how many, otherwise, ignoring the work of this House by ministers, are shown today and these 29 empty benches on the left. Instead of this parliament's responsibility, the Council of Ministers and ministers is the only responsibility they feel for their party bosses. For the sake of correctness, from this group of objections to the Council of Ministers, I personally exempt the Minister of Civil Affairs, Mr Nović, who is the only point of view of the Council of Ministers, his relationship with Parliament and MPs, at least as far as I'm concerned, may be an example of how it should work. The third group of my reasons is indolence and irresponsibility towards the future of BiH and BiH citizens against strategic issues for the present and future of BiH. I think just the tip of the iceberg is the Council of Ministers' relationship to this global problem called the financial crisis and recession. There is no week without EU ministers discussing the different aspects of this problem, and we, on our initiative and the encouragement of this House, get information from the Council of Ministers from a incomplete three-page group as if it were a local problem, a local community problem, rather than a huge problem for BiH and its citizens. Not to mention that so far, the Council of Ministers has not taken a more respectable step to mitigate the consequences of the crisis or to combat it, although the financial crisis and recession are already taking their toll in BiH and I fear they will only take it. This is just a few facts that made me decide to talk about this agenda point at all without taking it as a waste of time. In the end, I'll repeat what I've already said. This home today has no capacity to vote non-confidential to the Council of Ministers but I am sure that this debate with responsible people or with honest people in the ruling six will also cause at least a little more responsibility and seriousness, not to say, shame, because that's the only thing left to do, even though it's on the scale and, to be honest, weightless. I will today support a vote of no confidence to the Council of Ministers because I have no reason to support such a concept of work and this kind of a dose of disorder, unhappiness, irresponsibility and incomparability that the Council of Ministers has made to its obligations, according to this Parliament and to the citizens of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22144	I thank the honourable representative, Dolić. Business intervention, distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22145	Well, I believe, in order to continue this debate, we must first interpret the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. In fact, Article 168 (1) reads: "The BiH Council of Ministers in the House is its chairman or one or more of its members." Here, as we can see, we haven't heard who represents the Council of Ministers. That way we can't work on our rules of procedure. I would ask officially if we knew if anyone represented the Council of Ministers or not? On the side of this ruse that we currently have a session and a debate on the Council of Ministers' trust and that there are no Prime Ministers and a complete Council of Ministers. Well, it's nowhere in the world to be debated about a government, and there's no one official from the government at that time. Here, really, if you can't give the answer right now, we can also ask for a break, but this really doesn't work any further.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22146	You got the answer. Do you have a suggestion? 30
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22147	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we have to work. We need to find someone to represent the Council of Ministers. No, really, they can't humiliate us like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22148	I'll remind you of one situation. At the beginning of my presidency of this house, when I took a break and asked the members of the Council of Ministers to come, I didn't exactly come across your support then, I must say. Some interpreted it very loudly, my, as they said, a nicotine crisis, etc. So, I don't have a problem, I can sit here long. We have the condition we have. Everyone draws a conclusion on this, and I then state my position on the absence of members of the Council of Ministers at the Council of Ministers' meetings, and now I feel the same way. However, here is the Rules of Procedure, we can also work if there are no members of the Council of Ministers present, unless the House decides otherwise. So, next. Do you have a suggestion?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22149	It's my suggestion that you take a break as much as you estimate and bring here someone from the Council of Ministers to represent the Council of Ministers, what else to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22150	So I'm very clear. So my assessment is that we keep working, but if you have a proposal to take a break, make a request on behalf of the club and I'll give you that. /joint Dixusion. You don't have a suggestion. Next is Honourable representative Momčilo Novaković, and let the distinguished representative Zlatko Lagumdžija be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll do it very briefly. I guess this whole situation and this "presence" here at the Council of Ministers speaks enough about the way they understand this initiative, that is, the seriousness they have given to this initiative. I must say, there is no reason for the Council of Ministers to be resolved. Their relationship with this initiative is sufficient reason. I wouldn't take each other out today, because my colleagues talked a lot about it. 31 You see, I don't think there is a more secure position or a more secure job in this country today than the minister in the Council of Ministers of BiH. Even when the parties supporting the Council of Ministers disagree on nothing, they agree that the minister must not be replaced, in any possible variant. And we've shown it several times so far, when we've had initiatives to resolve or mistrust certain ministers. I don't think there's any point in even starting any more of this initiative. I don't know if the ministers would be serious if one of these parties supported by the Council of Ministers had come out today with a motion to vote for mistrust with the Council of Ministers. I'm not sure that even then a more serious relationship would be, since it wouldn't be enough for any minister to get rid of it, and we have Mr. Alkalaj's case, when the SNSD was in a position that Mr. Alkalaj shouldn't do the job, and he continued to do the job perfectly normally. But here, I'll read a few sentences and that'll end it. So I don't want to say anything else. The agenda item 'Sends and Answers' best talks about the position of the Council of Ministers and, in fact, the most parliamentary issues are asked by MPs from the parties who supported the Council of Ministers. I guess that says enough about the confidence of these parties towards ministers from other parties who are all called the Council of Ministers of BiH together. At the plenary session of the European Parliament in the debate over the adoption of the BiH Resolution, Mr Oli Ren said, "Now is a crucial moment for BiH and its aspirations for joining the European Union. The signing of the Agreement and the opening of the visa liberalisation dialogue represent a significant step forward and a signal to the citizens of BiH that their future is in the European Union. The European Union was able to paralyze and sign an agreement with BiH, as the leaders stick together and reach agreement on police reform. They showed when there was a political will that the crisis could be overcome. But that consensus has failed, reforms have been halted. Nationalist rhetoric is a factor in the deterioration, there is no common vision on the issue of approaching the EU and this seriously damages BiH's European future. There is no sense of urgency to solve problems, as well as the responsibilities to overcome them. On my visit to BiH, I expressed my concern with the BiH presidency. BiH must speak with one voice. The question of the census is vitally from the aspect of planning for the country's further economic development. In its progress report, the European Commission will seek that BiH leaders commit whether they will continue to fight each other or go towards reforms leading to the EU. The European Commission supports the position on OHR's remainder and in order to close certain preconditions must be met." I think these few sentences best speak of what the political scene in BiH is today and what is the role of the Council of Ministers in this whole story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22153	The poslanik of Lagumdžija, and let MP Križanović be prepared. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22154	Mr. Vice-President, I am sorry that I have already been seen from my address for business intervention, which is that we do not have the Council of Ministers' position, or the Council of Ministers' response. We have an introduction in writing that the Council of Ministers has come to know that there is an initiative to change them. I believe that if we finish today and, Mr. Chairman, think about maybe we should postpone this for the next session, so that people are really getting ready to come, let's see where we are. We're ready for that, too. On the other hand, I thank Mr. Sadović who came, I don't want to be maligned, here I'm being persuaded to say, he seems the only one has a problem that he could no longer be in the Council of Ministers, so the man came, these others are probably gonna stay. I want to express my support for his relationship with Parliament no matter what, and he has our trust to the extent that everyone else has together, no less or less. The second thing is, which, quite naturally, is that we have made our position on the Council of Ministers a clear voice when this Council of Ministers was constructed and unfortunately nothing happened in the meantime that would have denied us, except that some of the things in the meantime have been proven that our worst expectations, or fears, have been fulfilled. I don't think they're right about my colleagues saying this Council of Ministers isn't holding up on us. Namely, this Council of Ministers holds to us as long as we keep to ourselves. And the fact is that we've put ourselves in a position to talk about things like this without the full capacity of the Council of Ministers, in fact, saying it's not their fault, it's ours. I'm sorry that if they didn't find it appropriate to show themselves to us it was simpler that the heads of the club parties here at the beginning said what a number of conditions were about supporting this Council of Ministers, so the matter would be much simpler. However much we vote today, however this ends today, I think it will be an objective one great encouragement for all of us who want to see how to get out of this crisis. If this Council of Ministers gets mistrust today, gets most of it, most of it declares that a new council of ministers should be elected, reconstructed, elected, whatever you want, is exactly the same in our terms, it will be a great encouragement, because there is a critical mass of awareness that it should go into something new. If today, gentlemen of the ruling colcot, threes, fours, fives, sixs, still stand behind this Council of Ministers, it is also a great encouragement for us. That means the government has consolidated and is ready to move on. I clearly suspect that this Council of Ministers will get a negative assessment today because, if we don't lie, giving a negative assessment to this Council of Ministers is actually giving a negative assessment to this Parliament. This Council of Ministers is a picture of relations in this House and I believe that if this Council of Ministers today were to get a negative assessment in order to problem this Parliament in the very near future, naturally, democratic means, in accordance with the Constitution, the law and everything that follows. What is evident, which is that this Council of Ministers has no more political power, that there is no power to catch up with economic problems and that it is a generator of further social decomposition and I will not talk about it in particular. I would like today, from this session, to have the public come out encouraged, to have this parliament give a negative assessment to this Council of Ministers and open room 33 to a new council of ministers or anything new. I want to be very clear here, because I see some printed media being quoted here, I want to say clearly, since in some media that I don't exactly take as an element of great credibility when the public is informed about it, but they quoted the party heads, even the heads of the two ruling parties. I would like to say here in Parliament that I am on the enquiries of the members of the ruling coalition, whether the SDP is ready to participate in supporting the new council of ministers, the reconstructed Council of Ministers, the entry into the Council of Ministers, as we have already appeared in the public and said that we will support minority governments and the like, I want to say here in Parliament what I have said to these people and representatives of the international community – the SDP will not participate in any new council of ministers, in any reconstructions of the existing situation, which would be the reconstruction of the personal, reconstruction of the party, and would not be the reconstruction of relations in this country. First of all, one is prepared to catch up with essential issues, and that is the issue of constitutional repair of this country and then all that follows. I know no one has asked me this in this House, but I am obliged to say it, because in public it is being sent to me through the media by the heads of individual ruling parties. So, the SDP is interested in changing this Council of Ministers and making new ones. We are not ready to participate in any reconstructions and makeup of a dead man named the current current current government in BiH. And finally, Mr. Chairman, I, if I hadn't missed it, once again I call on the representatives of the ruling parties to let us know clearly whether they support this Council of Ministers or not. It would make it quite easier for us, and we who have already applied for the discussion have been more or less perfectly clear, thus making this deal from Prud here, which has already gathered at least six parties, as far as I have seen, among which there is no SDP, encouraging that it may be possible to create a new council of ministers gathered around Prud. Because here you have, already some parties and my colleagues here have declared that they support this. So let's make some hockey change or whatever, just move on. We're against this kind of state-of-the-art problem, but we're just about to move out of the toad we're in. It would be stupid to talk about economic matters, because it obviously doesn't interest anyone in this Council of Ministers, unless economic issues are a matter of security policy, and for God's sake, we haven't thrown it yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22155	I thank the esteemed representative of Lagumdžija. The following has been announced by distinguished representative Jozo Križanović, and may the distinguished representative Mirko Okolić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would not like to repeat anything from what my colleagues were proposings and colleagues who had spoken before me, but I would have drawn out of all of this one conclusion that there is not one criterion 34 which would give the Council of Ministers a positive assessment, and therefore I have no reason not to support this proposal. However, because of the seriousness of the topic we are talking about, I would like to really, this is no provocation whatsoever, but I would like to hear, say, colleagues from the parliamentary majority: do they have any arguments that might challenge this so far? Because, you see, on other topics when we discussed, there could be serious objections here to the work of individual ministries and the Council of Ministers as a whole. So now is the chance to be honest with, first of all, the serious situation we're in. However, when asked how this would end, I said, of course, that the Council of Ministers will not get today's mistrust from this home, for the simple reason that the Council of Ministers can continue with its old practice, hence the unhappiness and full ignoring of all that comes from this home, starting with legislative proposals, initiatives, conclusions, etc. I have been very often and formally, officially, and informally speaking that this House of Representatives is really working very hard, but that it is disastrously deciding. So we have activity, there's, let me say, a responsible relationship with the exercise of attorneyship, but ultimately, deciding this home isn't productive. The Council of Ministers can behave as they will, and eventually the House of Representatives will always be a sickly fond of its government. I mean, that's one fact that we need to think very seriously about. And that's why I'm going to stop talking about the Council of Ministers and make a few suggestions to ourselves. With all this in mind, then it can be said that actually the Council of Ministers is, in a way, a picture of this House of Representatives. We, unfortunately, cannot agree on anything important in BiH, bring some too many policies on which the work of the Council of Ministers would be based, which would be some kind of rapper for us to monitor the quality of work. And for this reason, it is accepted that the work of the Styria, which I say, is a major EU loan... and that is why BiH is trying later to present itself as a success in approaching the EU, especially from the point of view of the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. You see, what some colleagues have already said, I'm already the Council of Ministers' relationship to this, I think, one unprecedented example in a democratic practice. This really doesn't deserve any further comment. I'd end up the next way. This proposal is a serious warning, but it is essentially a signal for a serious review of the core position of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, especially the House of Representatives. And I'd say this is also a chance for the House of Representatives. We will ultimately, as Parliament, bear all the sins for the situation in BiH, especially when the Council of Ministers holds us hostage like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22157	I thank the esteemed representative Križanović. The next is Honourable representative Mirko Okolić, and let the distinguished representative Denis Bećirović be prepared. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, representatives of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, means of information, the international community and other guests, you see, when on the agenda this serious point, and this proposal to discuss the non-confidentiality of the Council of Ministers of BiH, should be, I should say, political and any other alarm in the country and be the topic of the day. However, since nothing is normal with us as in normal and democratically developed countries, it does not matter. Our Council of Ministers can be praised for being the most secure Council of Ministers, Council of Ministers or Governments in the world. There is certainly no example anywhere in the world that this kind of agenda is on this parliament, which is elected by the Council of Ministers, and that they are not all there, that all their assistants are not in the hallway, all the secretaries are somewhere on the stairs and that they are closely following what will happen. However, since they know that this has nothing to do with it, they ignore it and, here by the presence of the Assembly on this item of the agenda, you can see what this relationship is and that they know that this parliament has no way of having any today or initiative, let alone a move to support the shift of the Council of Ministers. That's why it is behavior, but it's not up to them. Someone said it wasn't up to them, and I'm telling them good luck. In my opinion, it's the safest and most successful, in these matters, government in the world, and that's the attitude of power. Today, the worst MPs from the congregation's majority, which Mr. Lijanović says is the ruling six, because people don't even know what they'd be doing right now. I wish they weren't here. That's my opinion. I can neither support this initiative, and in my soul they think it's the right thing to do, nor can I defend the Council of Ministers, because it sees the whole world not to defend them. So I can't yell that something white is black. But it's the attitude of their politicians, their bosses, that this Council of Ministers should get through the way it is for now, and that what we're talking about today is a waste of time and, by quotes, a hollow story. Because I've spoken to some colleagues from the position, he says, my opinion is like that, but don't ask me any further, I'm probably gonna keep my mouth shut, and I've talked to him for now, so maybe he'll come back later, and then I'll see. If the Council of Ministers responds to the majority of this kind of Council of Ministers, as well as to us from the opposition, at least to me and my colleagues, or to my colleagues and to me, because what will do you most harm, because when the results of the Council of Ministers are summed up, then we will have more material to talk about than we will talk about today. Here, you can see how much Council of Ministers has respect for this Parliament and how certain it is of what I just said – and in today's 'presence'. If they were even sure it could be about today's discussion, that she could at least earn some media attention, etc., there would probably be a lot more of them here. Here, and in this presence of theirs here, it is seen that they are not unique and that they have different attitudes, that they do not have their own rules of play, because we have one minister present, and the rest do not have. If the Council of Ministers were a compact council, we would all be present, or no one would be present, because they would take their official position and say, "Let's all go or nobody goes or go to those we delegate before the Council of Ministers." It is not good for the Council of Ministers to be discussed beyond this parliament in which official and informal meetings, mostly informal, are being replaced through the funds of 36 informations, and that this is not the case in the Assembly, that it is not discussed in the Assembly and that changes or reconstructions of the Council of Ministers are made if necessary. Why do I think this Council of Ministers can't work? Here you can see that the rareness in the press is to find, although most, I say, not only the press but the means of information, favouring the Council of Ministers and the Assembly's majority, a positive inscription on the work of the Council of Ministers, and it can be seen mainly that there are certain problems. It can be seen from certain stories, certain information, falling laws, etc. There are certain problems. And I'm also adding that when we had a new selection of the Council of Ministers after the chairman's resignation and the government's fall and, when we chose, we re-elected the same composition of the Council of Ministers. The guy didn't work for us, they resigned, they came out publicly so they couldn't work together on one team. Right after that, when the situation got a little quiet, it's the same proposal as I can work together. I asked some people then, here I will now say, since the chairman of the Council of Ministers of all this, would he like to be able to leave one of the members of the Council of Ministers or ministers by name and last name, and to have someone else come, has no connection from the same party, from the same political option, etc. because he stated before that he could not work with certain people, or individual ministers. Not because they're bad people, but because their concept doesn't match. And then he officially said he'd love to, but if he wasn't able to choose it, he would. Of course, politics made him these names that he got. I think that today, probably, the Council of Ministers won't get any minis in this assembly, because there's not enough for that. The opposition mostly, here, I see so far has been reporting and talking about this part of the agenda. I am sorry that there is even a debate on the agenda, because I am not happy if this is how the Council of Ministers or the Government of a State is criticised. That's a minus for all of us. But it's better to criticize that he'd get better if he could. However, we have often had conversations on this subject and I do not see any shift in their relationship, their work. And I don't know if anyone else can deny it to me and prove it does, and I think that's how it's going to stay until the end of this term or, eventually, to some change in the strengths of the congregation's majority or something else. I personally cannot support this initiative from all this I've said. Not because I have anything against any of these people doing this job, who have been appointed ministers and chairman of the Council of Ministers, but I have objections to the results that have so far come from their work, that is, all those disagreements among them that are public. Please, in the press, we read that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is surrounded by some information, very important, that the chairman of the ministers and a number of ministers do not communicate on all matters etc., etc. That no one deny it, not to say it's not true, we communicate and work, we're a team, if we're all wrong, etc. It's not there. It is evident, however, that this Council of Ministers cannot satisfy the answer that should be in front of them. And there is also no minor criticism for us, Parliament, because we could change that situation today within half an hour. Only one decision that would suggest that a more serious discussion would be made about the reconstruction or replacement of the Council of Ministers, just a hint. Now, you'll see, these benches will be there for the next session of the tight, they'll be more than there is room, but then they'll realize that the position, which can choose them, whether they're preserved or not, under quotes, is interested in something changing there, and then they would certainly imagine and perhaps change something in their relationship and their work. Thank you very much. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22159	I thank the esteemed representative of Okolić. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22160	Here, we were prepared today to seriously, with arguments, talk about the work of the Council of Ministers, in principle promised – realised. However, this is absolutely impossible to do in this atmosphere today, given that there are neither prime ministers nor 90% of ministers, so it would really be too much to say about both this and the objectives outlined two years ago, without talking about the image of BiH, what is the perception of investors, which are the main obstacles to investment in BiH, what to do to make it better in the next period, etc. Since that part of the discussion, the main one, I'm skipping, I just want to say a few more words. It is absolutely certain that this is a precedent in parliamentary life, likely to be precedentd to talk about a government's mistrust, and there is no prime minister and almost complete government. This is not only disrespecting the Council of Ministers for opposition proposals of this point, but also for the entire BiH Parliament. It's no secret – it's in agreement, which is publicly made secret, and out of opposition and position – that this is one of the worst Council of Ministers this country has ever had. And here today is not the opposition's move, today is the parliamentary majority's move. The question here should be asked, when the Council of Ministers is as it is, whose Council of Ministers is this. An open question should be asked whether there are any differences between the six parliamentary parties of the ruling Council of Ministers and the six parliamentary ruling parties in this parliament? What is the difference between those six in the Council of Ministers and these six parties here in Parliament? This question should finally be answered by this country. If there are differences, and if these six parties in Parliament disagree with what their fellow ministers are doing in the Council of Ministers, then surely this Council of Ministers should be brought down today, i.e. to have his mistrust voted. And of course, as you can see, the atmosphere of the debate so far, you can talk here for five days about the Council of Ministers. Half of the ruling party's MPs have come out, and these half have no intention of responding either. The Council of Ministers certainly doesn't want anyone to talk about anything, and it's such an atmosphere. But let's start talking in a different way. Not to speak with the Council of Ministers, but to say, and let the media convey it, the Council of Ministers is equal to SNSD, SDA, Party for BiH, HDZ, HDZ 1990 and PDP. Now, you're going to hear a million replicas right now and they don't exactly agree when you say it's the Council of Ministers, because you're going to hear the explanation of the type immediately: ours are good at the Council of Ministers, but these other ministers are no good. And so every one of them says, "This one of us is good, but they're kind of a brake, etc." So here we need to figure out what the Council of Ministers is! The Council of Ministers is equal to these six parties. This is a joint failure by these six parties. How much of the stake in this failure each of these six parties could be debated, but it definitely has to be said and it should be said to the people of this country that this is the failure of those six parties, and not just to make more fog and mention the Council of Ministers, and by that we do not know the essence of who is responsible for what we have today. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22161	I thank the esteemed representative Bećirović. Replica, distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22162	I want to replicate those who have claimed that today will not be voted no confidence from the Council of Ministers, because apparently this silence of the ruling six means the approval of all our discussions. But if these discussions are approved, then I believe that even when the vote doesn't allow them to actually support all of this again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22163	I thank the esteemed representative Ivanković. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Review of the European Parliament resolution on Bosnia and Herzegovina, adopted at plenary session 23. Ten. 2008 in Strasbourg, (Proposed by Agent Denis Bećirović from the 40th session of the House, held on 19.11.2008) I remind you, we placed this item on the agenda of the initiative of the distinguished representative Bećirović, presented at the 40th session. In addition to the proposal, the honourable representative delivered the text of the Resolution that you received. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22165	Here, as a proposer, I suggest that if it is possible to adopt the conclusion that this item of the agenda is delayed until the moment the Council of Ministers is here, because I believe you will agree that it is absolutely declassified to talk about these things without the Council of Ministers. Even that last straw of hope and integration from Parliament and the Council of Ministers, Mr Sadović, and he even left Parliament at the moment, so we no longer have any hope, any man in Parliament. So, really, if it's possible to come to that conclusion, and if it's not possible, I would continue to explain this item on the agenda, Mr. Chairman. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22166	Just keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22167	So let's discuss it without them. Well, I'm really going to cut the whole story short, I'm not going to do any of what I thought I was saying at this point in the agenda. The problem of BiH is that it does not realise its obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and, in short, I would like to say that it is time for this Parliament to start discussing and implementing what is coming from the European Parliament, the Council of Europe, etc., and especially what is related to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is no longer a question of whether or not we will. We signed it, adopted it, and now it's the responsibility of this country. If you look at the contents of this European Parliament resolution, you will see what is in it. BiH's administrative capacity is required to be strengthened. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly is called on to oversee the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So it's directly our obligation that we can discuss ourselves and see how this thing gets serious. It is very clear in the European Parliament's Resolution that it is necessary to break up the Bosnian-Herzegovic practice of the educational apartheid that is present at a large part of BiH. There is concern about the return of refugees and displaced persons, I quote, 'in Posavina and RS', so here is the intolerant climate, etc. Point 27. The resolution literally says, "We are concerned about the climate of media intimidation." People, when they adopted this resolution, they probably adopted some facts and information. Why have we allowed ourselves perhaps to be the only country in Europe that realizes that we have a threat to the media? Who does that? Why does he do that? Who are responsible for such negative assessments of BiH? That's what we really need to start talking about. However, in order not to move forward, I propose one conclusion, Mr. Chairman, that, as there is no Council of Ministers, that we reach a conclusion here today: that we charge the Council of Ministers of BiH to submit within 30 days a plan for the implementation of the commitments made by the European Parliament resolution, with the exact deadlines and business bearers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22168	Thank you. All I ask is that in writing you submit this proposal to the conclusion. The following has been reported by the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović; the error means! All right, next up is Remzija Kadrić's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22169	Thank you. I'm just a few things about technical nature when it comes to this resolution. So here, Foreign Minister Sven Alkalaj sent us a letter here on 27.10. calling him, and he calls it, probably the Foreign Ministry, he calls this resolution the 40th Resolution on BiH, and probably refers to this second resolution, because the European Parliament adopted two resolutions. First, this legislative resolution on a proposal for a Council and Commission decision to conclude a Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and BiH, of the other part. And there is another resolution entitled European Parliament Resolution to include a Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their countries and Member States, on the one hand, and BiH, on the other. It is probably this second resolution, as far as we could see from these memos, it is a short name, the name of the resolution, and it bears the name as 'The Resolution on BiH'. And he says in this letter of 27.10 that, referring to this second resolution, the resolution on BiH was adopted, we will get it, we will deliver after receiving the consolidated text from the BiH mission on our way to the Union in Brussels. And immediately on 28.10., this letter tells us that two resolutions have been adopted, etc. It is likely from this point forward that the second resolution on BiH, proposed by Doris pak, is the BiH Resolution. Of course, in all of that, it would really be good if we got the consolidated text of this resolution, because there are a lot of repetitive attitudes here in many of these things. So, for example, let's not go into a broader design, when it comes to one of the points about flowering, about how after the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, here's below b) e.g. in this resolution, he says, "The Stabilisation and Association Agreement can help the Bosnian-Herzegovina economy flourish." Since it is challenging the provisions... which make the country mandatory, liberalises its market, calls for competitive business, etc. And the same is said here under 4. and it is said, "The Stabilisation and Association Agreement is considered to have potential to help BiH's economy flourish, given the same content... which the country is united to liberalise its market." There's a lot of stuff going on over and over again. It would be good if we had some consolidated text of this resolution and that in such a way we had one of our corresponding relationships. Of course, there are some here and, in my opinion, a lot of arbitrary evaluations, evaluations, analysis. Like. Under h," he says, "It takes more effort to overcome divisions along the ethnic line and move towards real reconciliation between sides." So by i) he says, 'BiH is still in many areas a country divided by ethnic lines, which is... information.' I think these things are pretty sharp, qualified. We're not as much of a society divided by ethnic lines as we are by these entity lines, etc. And a lot of things, I'd like to really, when it comes to the qualifications of certain things, in an earlier letter, Oli Ren says, one week we're talking, we're qualified to do this rhetoric by saying it's an incendiary rhetoric, so that next week we can talk about nationalist rhetoric. Should international community representatives really have the same standards when asked, among other things, about this rhetoric. After all, I think it would be good if we had... I have the impression that we don't have a consolidated text of this resolution, and we get it, so we have a quality relationship to this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22170	I thank the esteemed representative, Kadrić. 41 The next was announced, the honourable representative of Raguž, and then the honourable representative of Bešlagić must be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22171	I thank you, Mr. President. Here, we MPs, at least me, who make up this composition of the parliamentary majority, have felt this previous point. I personally felt that you would concentrate on this one. Here's a response to Denis Bećirović, and he was prematurely interpreting the views of parties and clubs related to the Council of Ministers and a defensive position that I didn't even intend to take towards the work of the Council of Ministers. And here's the distinguished Mr. Lijanović said that this uncertainty will last until the vote. Well, here, so let's keep that possibility. But this topic is really serious, and I was inclined to support the proposal not to discuss without the Council of Ministers on this point, although there is a mood to test on this point the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, because we have the document of the largest legislative European institution, the European Parliament, which is French, means a month ago, after a serious and thorough debate, and who has had the opportunity to see the stenograms with discussions and the position of the parties in the European Parliament, the position by countries, to see the seriousness of the people in Europe debate about us. And let's not underestimate that. Secondly, here in the introduction we have a reminder of the country's European path from the Thessaloniki agenda, meaning when it is defined that the Western Balkan countries have a clear European perspective, it was 2003, until the decision of the EU Council of Ministers to open negotiations with BiH 2005 and this chronology until the Roadmap for the liberalisation of the regime. We objectively see that in this hodogram BiH is really moving with snail steps and that there is no excuse anymore and that there must be redefining its own Bosnian-Herzegovina institutional strategy this time and that is why we should all prepare ourselves seriously here together. And my proposal will be on point 7. A resolution calling on the BiH Parliament to monitor implementation in close co-operation with entity parliaments. So we also have our obligation to follow this declaration once a month and to be on the agenda once a month to monitor the realisation of political and all other priorities of this declaration and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and not to make a difference between the position and the opposition, we really look at each other how much we realize from these priorities. How important this document is, as far as this comprehensive document is concerned, these are all its rhetorical shortcomings, what Mr. Kadrić was saying, I can agree that some assessments, perhaps, or not well-exposed enough, speak about the fact that it points to all the important issues of the economic situation in BiH: from relations with the EU, to abolish all quantitative restrictions, agreed schedules, to simplify the flow of goods, to make a comprehensive review of all aid schemes for the whole country, to make all schemes in line with EU legislation and to establish an independent state aid body. And a number of other such things that are truly crucial, and there is no excuse here that we do not have a strategy promoted by the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers being a locomotive, what I once said, because here, look at all the countries in transition, all the countries that have implemented this European agenda have had in governments as a top priority and have had public support to achieve these objectives and achieving these goals is not a simple job at all. 42 I will illustrate only one situation with how far we are from realising the European priorities and content of this declaration. And that shows how much we still play with figs in our pocket when it comes to Europe and how we interpret European standards and European requirements here. So I'm going to remind you here of this part of the return, I apologize, I'm going to find it, I think, quickly, where data is given that 125,000 people are still registered as internally displaced persons, of which the government of BiH, or the Council of Ministers, still 8000 live in collective centres, because there are no adequate accommodations, infrastructures and everything else, that they... have worked hard to make the situation as bearable as possible. If there are 45,000 people at this point, I think it's family, this is mistranslated, so I'm correcting this, 45,000 families that are officially registered as people who want to return, who need help to return, and we have the fact that we are calling for the implementation of five plus two priorities for the transition of OHR, with the census, so here we see in the budget that this country needs to bring, 300,000 marks for that. I think that we will come very quickly to the wall, where we will no longer be able to transfer the ball and responsibility to anyone and in this sense my proposal, which I will deliver in writing, is that this is one of the most important issues for Parliament's work, namely us as a representative in the House of Representatives, and that we introduce mandatory once a month insight into the situation of the European path of BiH and the implementation of the Action Plan for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but here they come and come and ask us and other important questions that are not only the subject of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So today, I am not only going to force a formal debate, an exception to the debate on this matter, but also to recognize that this way, in a way, we are going to indicate one firmer approach to the Council of Ministers, as in fact the most important institution that should educate these processes and that this will depend on whether or not someone forms an integral part of this six-member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22172	I thank the esteemed representative Raguž. The next is the distinguished representative Bešlagić, and let the distinguished representative Milica Marković be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22173	Dear President, honourable colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, I think that the previous two debaters have pointed to the problem that we, as Parliament, are to discuss but unfortunately the inability of our debate is that the Council of Ministers has never submitted any information that we could identify and I think this is a matter and a question on the agenda, I would say, very, very important, as Mr Raguž said. For these reasons, I think it is decadent that this is about the European Parliament resolution of 23 October. Is she lectured or not lectured? Basically, it contains what it contains. I agree that we should be lectured and I think that the proposal that has been made here by both my 43 predecessors is that the Council of Ministers undertakes to prepare a report on this plan in a month and that after that, 15 days after that, I would accept Raguž's proposal, after every month under such a timetable we discuss with the free rights of criticism and of the Council of Ministers and of Parliamentarians, if we do not work. And here is one of the most constructive reasons, because then we could actually open the debate but also insist that there must be a Council of Ministers present here, whether restored, unrenewed, not relevant, not entering the previous point. So I would ask that really in this sense, what was discussed is very little compared to what should be discussed. And that is why I support this proposal that has been made, by perhaps uniting it in that the Council of Ministers has to do this request in a month and then opening a joint debate that I would say is repeated, here, if it is considered that every month, if we consider it very important, or some other term that could be agreed on but as something that is mandatory for this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22174	I thank the esteemed representative Bešlagić. The next is Commissioner Milica Marković, and let the distinguished representative Halid Genjac be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have come to the floor to comment, I will try as briefly as possible, this European Parliament resolution, because I believe this is a very serious document that we should think about, and not only to think about but also to see what it is for us to do, both Parliament and the Council of Ministers and so on and all other relevant institutions in BiH that can contribute to the realisation of certain obligations that BiH clearly has on the path of Euro-Atlantic integration. As far as the Resolution itself is concerned, it may also be questionable whether we can add or subtract anything here today. I don't think we can add or subtract, because it's a given document. But if we had that possibility, I think that there would be room for both of us, first of all, because... that a few, first of all, terminology errors would be made here, in the sense of being in point 31 of the High Representative, for whom we all know that both the High Representative and the EU Special Representative are being called only as a special representative of the EU, which, when he is definitely in BiH, will be one new situation in BiH, and not the one we now have. Or, for example, the point of the 40th is about the 'Government of BiH', and we know that it is the Council of Ministers, which is a termological but it has a fundamental difference. There are important differences between these terms. What is being imposed as two basic and most large findings, which we received from the stenograms from the discussions of individual MPs... let us call it certain conclusions from this resolution is two things that the EU, or the European Parliament expects BiH to do and to carry out, which is, first of all, the elimination of corruption, organised crime in BiH and, secondly, are constitutional reforms. And according to the content of this resolution, it is clear that these are the two first and primary things 44 they expect BiH to do, of course, parallelly or immediately after it has joined the implementation of other obligations set out to it as a potential EU candidate. What I think we should do as MPs, but, I said, we should consider the Council of Ministers as special points, i.e. as specific tasks in this resolution, is the issue of returning here, which is clearly listed in point 15 as a bad example of returning to the RS, but it is neglected that the return is still a controversial category throughout BiH. So, not only in one entity but also in another entity, in the entire BiH territory, so reading this part of the Resolution, one simply wonders if anyone has told them or if they have received any reports in this country to say here in this town, in Sarajevo, there are 150 thousand Srbin living in this city in the 1990s, and now there are about 10,000. And without respecting that fact, it is concluded that the government in the RS has not done enough to have a certain number of returnees who have applied to return to do so and in the context of that, we can also ask whether the authorities in the Federation have done enough to bring back the people who have left here, forced, exiled, or already, in the same way that has happened to people in the RS. In this context, I would also like to point out here the need to address the issues of missing persons and damages to their families, and welcome in this respect the work of the International Commission for Missing Persons – the Institute of BiH. I believe that both we as Parliament and the Council of Ministers cannot be satisfied with the work of the BiH Institute for many reasons. From the fact that they have not been carried out, let me say, a balanced and evenly defined obligation and the tasks of the Institute, both in terms of the search for missing persons in one part and also in another part of BiH, and I know that many RS families are dissatisfied with the work of the Institute. Someone here mentioned earlier to mention the intimidation of the media, I don't know, human rights, civil society and the rest. I think it is quite a flat-rate assessment in this resolution because sometimes in certain documents, it also makes certain European institutions view BiH as a child who needs to be particularly disciplined if it wants to go and that goal comes to the EU. I ask myself, and I think other citizens are also wondering whether it is acceptable for the media in Germany, France, in other EU countries to talk about politicians, about prominent figures who perform public duties based on the credibility they have from voters, to speak and to minimise their role and importance in society, as they do. I am not saying that they do not criticise, that they do not point to their bad actions, possibly bad actions and the unfulfilled effect that these politicians and officials in those countries are expected to have, but certainly it does not mean to spit and demean people who are in prominent state functions in those countries. That's why I think this is a flat-rate assessment and there should be more tactics, i.e., first of all, knowledge of the facts and situations in BiH in order to make one such finding. And here, finally, to say that here at point 39, it is said that it reminds the representatives of the international community that their partners are, it is said here in BiH institutions of the country, not leaders of the country's leading political parties, which I find absurd, because, and later on, we saw in a stenogram where both Oli Ren and some other European parliamentarians are just pointing to the need for communication, i.e. BiH's path is routed on the basis of talks, consultations and working with politicians and their leaders. I'm just asking one question. Is it possible to communicate with the House of Representatives here, therefore, with SNSD MPs without involving the president and 45 parties or with MPs of any other party, without involving the president of that party in this story which is comprehensive and which is very complex and broad. That is why I believe that, in the end, it follows from this resolution that we have a lot of work and tasks and that I support that proposal so that it would be useful and good to make certain conclusions and to set certain commitments, as well as deadlines, that we have the ministers present and that we have the Council of Ministers chair and, of course, give them a deadline to which they would set a strategy to carry out and carry out these tasks that are expected. And in the end, just one more sentence to say. I believe that those who have read the stenogram on the debate being held in the European Parliament, I think they should also pay attention to the findings made by Members Erik Mejer, Tla Wes and Bedler from individual political parties regarding terrorism and other similar phenomena and situations in BiH. I think that this is a special topic for the Ministry of Security and a particular topic that we have to think about and talk about because I don't think that with these findings, I'm going to quote them now because I'm assuming that you all have this material in front of you, these findings that these three MPs are taking place, I don't think they're using BiH at all, and if they continue to stand out and mention themselves, they're not being unfounded and unfounded, then I think that BiH's definitely the way to the EU has slowed down and it's going to be very well under the questionnaire. And in order to remove that and to free ourselves of such an anthems as has been presented here on behalf of BiH, I think that serious and root activities must be taken, above all, by the Ministry of Security and by the Council of Ministers as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22176	Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22177	Well, I really must say that if this is how we discuss any document coming from the EU, the European Parliament, then we will not come anywhere as a state. It is impossible for us to discuss in a way that we today characterise the European Parliament's evaluations as incorrect, flat-rate, etc. It is still missing that we have declared here that we can also invest amendments to this European Parliament resolution, and that is all we need, so that the atmosphere is complete. We seem to forget - we are not so important to the EU, but the EU is the most important thing for us. I guess we have to learn that once in a while in this state of BiH. This is how if we treat the EU's conclusions, according to the PIC conclusions, according to the conclusions, in this case, the European Parliament, etc., we will really not come anywhere. And I don't think we can discuss these documents anymore. And in particular, I must say that to draw this story of terrorism is somewhat and incorrect but it is also very indicative that someone who belongs, conditionally said, to the party of the left-wing story of terrorism and is quoting people in the European Parliament, and this is about the most difficult right-wing people in this House. Here's quite a coincidence, not knowing that it'll be the point of the agenda, the truth in English but I can deliver you the downloaded biographies of these people, so you'll see who these people are. Their political ideology, nationalism, separatism, populism, anti-immigration policy, etc. and you here, from so many people in the European Parliament, quote the blackest right-wing men in the European Parliament, and 46 you are pushing the story of some terrorism in BiH, with a completely different intention. I don't think that's really correct, and it's very indicative that left-handed people are calling for the blackest right-handed.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22178	Replica, the esteemed representative, Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22179	Well, what you, Mr. Bećirović, have now said, have brought yourself into contradiction. You said first that we had no right to comment, I was at the beginning and said that it was a discussion whether we should even discuss this resolution at all, or should accept it as the material that we should do and then say that we should not call and not in any way take into account what some parliamentarians have said, because they belong to the right orientation. So what's it gonna take? We have to accept that we can think about it too or, if we don't have to think about it, then we don't even have to bring in material like this at all, but we just have to say deadlines, executions and executions. I don't really know what, why you're looking for a agenda point if you don't think we need someone to think about it. I said in advance that we couldn't add anything or take it away from this, but we can tell what we're thinking. I can say, not as left-handed or as right-handed, not by political orientation at all, but as a citizen of this country, that when I read these statements by European parliamentarians that I was thinking about them, too. Just like what Oli Ren said or, I don't know, some French Parliamentarian or anything else. But you don't like what these three said, but you only like what the Council of Ministers can do wrong, I don't know, the ruling six, this, this, that, what whoever didn't do and what he didn't do to make you talk about it as an opposition, and you don't like me having, say, the need to mention these opinions, because these opinions were heard in the European Parliament's session. I didn't make it up, neither did I, but here's the document that says it. Do you think you shouldn't think about it? In some previous reports, and at some previous points we mentioned it, we asked it as a parliamentary question. So it responds or does not respond, but we all know definitely in BiH that there are phenomena, whether identical to what they are called in this document or similar, definitely BiH is called after this problem as it is very short, very lame here, but targetedly speaking of what is thought and what is wanted to be apostrophe in BiH. What did a right-handed man say? I don't care if he's right-handed or left-handed, he's a Parliamentarian in the European Parliament, and we all agreed that this was an important and relevant document that they might have voted on, or eventually, they gave their opinion on the resolution that was adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22180	Replica, distinguished representative Denis Bećirović, second.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22181	Well, I must make it very clear that I wrote it and in the opening statement I said that today this point, I think, we did not open it to correct the decisions of the European Parliament, 47, but to agree on how to implement them. And that's two completely different things. There's no contradiction. It is therefore a decision, officially, of the European Parliament and I have talked about it. What was individually said by any of the MPs, etc., I only told you that you of all these powerful MPs and of the European Parliament's official decision, interestingly, called on two or three people who participated in this debate and I only told you who these people are.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22182	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22183	Well, it's dangerous what you said, and it's not dangerous for you what's here, what are the assessments of the European Parliament resolution on October 23rd, so a month later, the Communications of the Management Board of the Peace Implementation Council, here you have, look at these assessments. Worse than what the European Parliament concluded. It's dangerous and I'm talking about us not being able to get into individual debates. We need to see what the final decisions of individual EU institutions or the European Parliament are, etc. and on that basis try to realize the things that apply to BiH. And that's the thing that's clear, if we want to realize and move towards the EU. If we do not, if we continue to pursue the practice we had in this country over the years, in which we will say that they are wrong, and we are always right – we can and can. We just see where and how much we go with that kind of policy?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22184	Dear Representative Vinko Zorić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22185	Well, here's this, Mr. Bećirović's last sentence spilled a glass. His entire discussion deserves the intervention of the College to apologize to the man he called, blackened, the hardest, the blackest, etc. However, he is just attacking others to do that: nothing is good but what I think is good. He's been doing it the whole time since he was elected to this parliament. Why do we have the right to personally judge people as they are, especially from the European Parliament? Imagine that someone in the European Parliament, either in the report or in the debate, mentioned one of us here 42. I don't think that's correct, and I'm asking you, in the future, if I'm doing it, too, outside this pay phone, to mention personally people who can't answer anything, warn me and don't let me do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22186	Thank you for this intervention. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22187	Here, given the democratic practice here that each of the MPs has the right, according to the Rules of Procedure to...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22188	Mr. Bećirović, please also, Mr. Zorić, and please also follow the presentation of distinguished colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22189	...has the right to propose a part of the agenda and try to maintain, unfortunately, that spirit of tolerance, and that individuals continue to abuse it and eventually fall into this kind of contradiction, I think it's devastating, humiliating to discuss this point. What is the goal of Mr Bećirović today and this is how he directs the debate on cheap political points, and I believe he doesn't know what to do with them either. He is today the person, who has often called the guest of this parliament and this state the blackest right-wing man. Does this mean that, according to his trial, he would have the power to have such a place neither in parliament nor in the state, nor anywhere, from the position of his party. I've experienced that intonation so that he can't do anything to them right now, but if he could, since they're the worst, the blackest, so he can eliminate them, take away their right to vote and take away their right to speak. I'd remind you that... a group of those blackest right-wing men belong to Doris pak. So you like it, probably, but I reminded you it belongs to the blackest right-wing men that you, under the supposed signs, left-wings, would have eliminated like that. And you see where we are brought by such valuable courts from a group that has probably mixed everything in life. You've mixed everything up in your life. I listened to you today at the first point and now at this point when you mention the debate in the European Parliament. People who were elected there in democratic procedure, by European courts, were elected by citizens, I'm not sure you'll count their blood cells too, whether they were chosen by leftists or rightists, but chosen by the highest European standards. And you asked us to discuss it, and now we've come into a situation where people from the European Parliament are offended and we're sending them a message saying, "Don't go there so anyone can answer and say anything about BiH that's here for a group who can't impose their opinion doesn't like it." I think it's funny and that this debate, here, has experienced such a debacle inappropriately, because we didn't need this. It was headed in a direction in which we should all take this resolution seriously, and debate, and Europe in full, not in the sense of command, but in the sense that we respect attitudes and learn from them. If it is commanding, the European Parliament's resolution and after agreement reached between the three leaders, Europe has welcomed it. The same Europe has been elected in this Parliament, the European Commissioner and others. In order to track down exactly what the Resolution is looking for, three leaders have done. They're looking for a way out of this situation. In order for you to spit it out in the media, you say it's out of the question, that it's their nothing, zero. And then you ask us to discuss this resolution, to ask for an expression of what Europe wants us to do, people to find. So here's how you evaluated it, based on this resolution, is the first step taken. So you didn't offer an alternative either, you didn't even say otherwise, which you would welcome me to, but you said let's now discuss 49 again about the non-extinguishing situation in which BiH is, and you see people asking us to find a way out. Those who find a way out experience the fate they are today. I think it's fair that democracy also has some rules that are aimed at efficiency and that democracy should apply those rules. And here, if we want efficiency, we would have to, in a way, agree on how to proceed.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22190	I thank the esteemed representative Kalabić. Are these raising hands for? Replica, the esteemed representative Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22191	Mr. Kalabić, you find a replacement thesis fantastic and suddenly you cross the Prud but it has nothing to do with the European Parliament. Okay, your thing, I don't accept it that way. Another thing, let me have the CV of this gentleman who was named, who wrote himself that he was a nationalist, separatist, etc., etc. So if you can't read, we'll copy and give it to you. A man's not ashamed of it. What do you stand for now? Said man. The third thing, a proposal was made on how to get into the fundamental question, I would say, these points of the agenda. And that's good. And Mrs. Milica agreed. And now I don't agree with anyone, when it comes to Islamic fundamentalism, that it should be thrown away by ad act. I ask you, once, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, Mr Sadović, come out here with information that will, above all, convince us that this Islamic fundamentalism is gone or has it, and then, as Parliament, send a letter to the European Parliament and let us tell our Ministry of Interior, our Ministry of Security, our ministries have found no. And I'm not ashamed of it, but I'm done with this Islamic fundamentalism, like there's no one else. So please, I don't agree when you say Islamic fundamentalists that we all jump, there's no reason. But that's why I'm asking the Council of Ministers, and that's why I'm asking for it to be brought out here and clear acts of what we're going to do to take off that stain, if there is one or if it's not there. But not just that, but everyone else. I'm not ashamed of it, I'm angry at it, and I'm angry that BiH and the Muslims in BiH are identical with Islamic fundamentalists. That's just a lie. And that's why I'm asking you to examine it and say it, let's take it off the agenda sometime. So believe me, we've been reading the CV that man wrote, he's not ashamed of who he is, and you immediately took him to defend. So defend him, but it's his right to write and it's our right to read. You can't argue with that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22192	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22193	I'm not going to attack him. I say, "I'm reading." Well, I'm not attacking. I didn't. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22194	Are these replications? Dear representative Kadrić, then the distinguished representative of Prodanović: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22195	So, the title of this resolution that we are discussing today, we are considering... ‘The European Parliament resolution on the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, on the one hand, and BiH, on the other hand. And the resolution, as it stands here in this report, was adopted with 567 votes "yes", 21 votes "against" and five votes "abstained". There was probably a debate about this, too. But it's not, it's not, it's probably not, I'm not going to say what he meant, but it's probably in that sense that Denis Bećirović, who I agree with, wanted to say that this was not a resolution on terrorism in BiH, but a resolution on the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Here, one of them spoke, among those members of parliament, said it was a stupid thing to see some BiH colleagues as a terrorist network, see a terrorist network in BiH. So, I'm saying... that the main point was not the debate and in this resolution that BiH allegedly is a country that is a terrorist country, in which they have terrorist networks, etc. For these reasons, it was distracted that this was not the main issue. And apparently, those who thought they did, they also voted against this resolution, 21 votes were "against" such a resolution. But as a whole, we don't need to draw attention from the main issues that are raised here in this resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22196	Honorable representative Lazar Prodanović, then distinguished representative Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22197	Dear colleague Bešlagić. You see, I highly appreciate this initiative regardless of all part of BiH's story and responsibility towards its European path. But I have to tell you what, here, today, Mr Bešlagić, previously Bećirović insists on, is entering a castle that is the most important for Bosnian-Herzegovic stories. We here have 40 conclusions, 40 points of the European Parliament resolution. And I think it is absolutely not disputed that they should all be the subject of debate in this House, the Council of Ministers' Action Plan, Parliament's responsibility towards it. But I must immediately tell you that the security situation in BiH is an extremely important issue. ... Of the 12 participants there are three, we have to let someone discuss it, but I don't see the need at all for you to pull out the CV of those who discussed it. I believe that this country must not marginalise any security component that would someday find us in any sense, including, right away, when I'm talking about this, here I am going to be the most direct one of the terrorist acts that connect to the latest developments in the neighbouring country of our country. Here, I'm not talking about Islamic fundamentalism or anything. But the essential question is here: we can't pull a question out of a few ways and constantly potentiate it as part of a story, so let's say now that we're referring to the... gossip situation that in BiH 8,000 have in refugee centres, 8,000 or 45,000 families, this is what you've been saying before. 51 All these issues must be fully responsibly considered and BiH must do everything possible to avoid being called, that is, not to be made any remarks, that we do not have any objections to what is negative, such as the encouraging thing that there are questions that are positive. That I do not see at all why any Srbin, Bošnjak or Hrvat in this House should be neurotised when the issue of terrorism or terrorist acts is mentioned. Well, a terrorist shouldn't be even qualified Islamic or anyone, he's a terrorist whoever he is. And why now the need to partialize it and keep pointing, here, we're not this, so when it happens to us, we are. I say that it is necessary to create such an environment in BiH in which we will have high trust, not to defend the deviations or terrorist groups of anyone who are... unnecessary at all. I am convinced deeply that none of the MPs in this state parliament have anything to do with anyone from such criminal miles or any of them. Why should we even... So we're against it, we strongly condemn, against whatever we are. The moment we say so clearly that they should be pursued in every place, any color of skin, race, religion, so it has nothing to do with us, it has nothing to do with us. So it is unnecessary to worry about who spoke in the European Parliament. It is evident, unfortunately, that there are many arguments in this country to tell us and make bad remarks rather than boast. Let's be afraid of that. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22198	Dear representative Milica Marković, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22199	My incorrect quote refers to the presentation of my colleagues, Remzija Kadrić. I don't even know where and when you heard here that someone mentioned that this was a resolution against terrorism. It wasn't me or any of the debaters mentioned it. It is mentioned by these three parliamentarians who have presented what they have both made clear and precise the term that is stated here in their discussions given in the stenogram: is Islamic radicalism. That's right. No Islamic fundamentalism, no terrorism, nothing. That's what they were talking about. And what Mr. Bešlagić said, you and I fully agree here, now you and I agree more than you and Denis Bećirović. The fact that you said that you needed the Ministry of Security to examine and bring in certain information and that certain material in whether it exists or not, that's what I asked for. I said that what's written here needs me to imagine and the Ministry of Security to do a part of its job that is expected to do, and apparently it's expected to do, it's a resolute ministry. And if you think, Mr. Bećirović, that I should read the documents because your ears can't and don't like to hear what I just said, so I can read the first and the second and the third pages only to half, so I can skip that last part, so I can go to the fourth, and that will never happen, you won't experience it as long as there are SNSD MPs in this House. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22200	Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, a replica, and a respected representative of Sadik Ahmetović, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22201	Well, here, I was surprised by how Mr. Bešlagić defended this theory, but I don't think there was any need for that. The Commission for the Defence of this Parliament, the Joint Commission visited the UK Parliament and we were presented a strategy by the United Kingdom in the fight against terrorism, the Joint Commission. And we were astounded, probably, or they were the inexperienced people who presented it to us, but they were openly saying that one nation is being watched over and in what number and why it poses a threat. That's what they said, we listened to it, I was amazed by it, I waited, I expected someone else to react, but here's what we're going to say as an example, and we're going to look for it in the report when we talk about why it's pictured that way. How did they come, Great Britain, how did she get into this situation that it was like that? I don't know. I kind of suggest that they change that. I can't? I could have said, probably, no, if it was human fair and fair, it's now the second dimension of the story... that we can talk about. But here, let's leave it for someone else, there'll be another topic today. In point 38, it's said to call bh. politicians to recognise the need for a reasonable distribution of assets between the state and other administrative levels. This is a request, this is a request, you've released that request the second day down the water and made here an orchestrated campaign against this. Against the party, against the party, which, it says reasonably, you want to read to the end, so it is not disputed that you all have it in front of you – which is one of the goals of closing the Office of the High Representative. It asks them to seriously engage in negotiations to address this long-opened issue, reminds that the state must receive the necessary funds to fulfil its task. People agreed to get both state and entity, and then they said, "What Europe is going to teach us about the state, we're older than Europe, so we're going to say that everything that we need, under our word of the state, is not valid." So point 38 doesn't apply, we're gonna throw that away, that's what I'm gonna do, we're gonna throw that away, so we're gonna give a lecture on other points. If we stick to everything, here we are ready to talk about everything. And everything here to implement, to say what it is here that needs to be implemented, but if we're going to talk in general. Nowhere is this going to get us all to take one point. If the SDA recognized it as this request and entered into the implementation of this, then others came to it, in some way because of the internal political points, that, this is the European Parliament's request, this is not the attitude or SNSD, or the SDA, or I don't know who else. Here's what it says clearly here, clearly here it says... that's what it says, I read, do I have to read again'reasonable distribution of property'. But then you can't say, eh, then if you want to fulfill what Europe is looking for literally, then this is also literal. And when we say wait a minute to see if it's a recommendation, is it, to see what's best for us? No, he says -- who are we to oppose the great Europe -- so when we get to 38 -- we're going to throw that away -- so we're going to take 14 again. I don't think we're correct, we're not properly prepared for this debate, and this isn't going to lead in this way... nowhere. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22202	Honorable representative Sadik Ahmetović has a replica, so distinguished representative Ekrem Ajanović has a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22203	Replica or false allegations, I don't know what to call it, but here I have to say, since I wasn't yet a member of Islam, that I am a member of Islam, Sadik Ahmetović of BiH, and I would like someone to tell me what it is to define Islamic fundamentalism or Islamic radicalism so that I can correct myself, possibly, in this Parliament itself or when I come out of this Parliament. So we went into a dimension that is not correct to people who feel themselves and live as members of Islam. Connecting to terrorism what is Islam, radicalism etc., I do not think it is correct, neither from colleagues here nor from colleagues in the European Parliament. Both radicalism and terrorism are characteristics of some individuals, groups, etc., etc. I mean, I will never use the word here if a member of the Serb people or of the Croatian people or of any other people has done any radical or fundamentalistic, as they say, or terroristly, I will not say that it is Catholic terrorism, fundamentalism, etc. Or possibly Orthodox. I think you have to have that dimension, you have to have a dimension to sit in this Parliament people who are members of Islam and treat it that way. Each other, each other's way of understanding this problem is a direct insult to me and to the people who may be sitting in this House. I ask you to define all the deviant things that meet in BiH society in the best possible way, so that we can most effectively oppose them. Anything else, politicization, or transfer to a religious or any other dimension is causing a different reaction and the solution to the problem is certainly further in relation to the way we should work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22204	Dear Representative Ekrem Ajanović, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22205	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, in order not to offend people, I still have a thing to say. First, in the woods the only way out is for bears, and in the woods they can't find a way out for a certain situation of people. That's one thing. And another thing, Mr. Kalabić, it says here that you need to deploy state property, correctly share state property. So, first we need to figure out what this is all about state property, and then sit down and talk, and talk... Therefore, you need to read and understand as it says, not as your heart desires. If something is to be shared, it must be determined what is to be divided, how many is to be divided, and how many are there, even when. You're a lawyer and you need at least a basic postulate of Roman law to establish, because that's the basis of the right in general, which is that, if you want to share anything, if you want to share the legacy behind your father or behind your mother, the court has to determine what they have, and then share it. So... establish state property, make it, book it, and then share it by what you think. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22206	Thank you. Please don't throw it out of the bench. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kadrić, second.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22207	I just said that the story of terrorism was not the main story when this resolution was adopted. When we look at the points that were adopted, it wasn't the main story. Therefore, from your presentation, someone could conclude that it was a major problem when this resolution was adopted. So it wasn't the main story of the adoption of this resolution, it was the story of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the measures to be taken, and that was my point in this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22208	Dear second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22209	I would also like to ask my colleague Belkić not to prejudge what I am about to say. I wanted to make an appeal to everyone here, no camera is there, no reporter is going to pass on a sentence of what we've been saying here tomorrow. This is opposition day, and we did well at the first point, because no argument has been made and there is nothing they can agree on about, so don't give them the right to and at this point in the agenda this discussion turns into something that this parliament doesn't need to turn into. I would like the European Parliament most if we could agree in the legislative projects, that even the opposition in those small steps towards the EU would give us support in these projects, even if they were not the best. They would be overjoyed if there was a law on state property where this parliament would give great support to the law, believe that they would find themselves in their convention, resolutions. Let's make that move so that no one will convince anyone of the things we know that we are different from this discussion, nor will we do good to this resolution and to this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22210	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Halid Genjac, and let the distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22211	In 1999, we expressed our view in the Parliamentary Assembly that BiH's integration into the EU is a key external priority of BiH, and later, among all parties in Parliament, we reached full agreement that there is no dispute. I'll do it very briefly, before the proposal is concluded. For the last year or perhaps a period after the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement shows all 55 absurdities of our situation, where, after signing, instead of speeding up, we have a complete stagnation of the process and where this commitment to political preparedness and unity about integration instead of being a cause of unity and a challenge to achieve this path and achieve that goal of stability, development and prosperity and issues of European integration become points and points where we differ and where we conflict, sometimes deliberately, sometimes unconsciously, sometimes unwittingly, sometimes unnecessarily, sometimes unnecesssarily and sometimes consciously looking for reasons to be a cause. I think, when we talk about Resolution, it's good to talk about the content of Resolution specifically, and about the discussions, if we're going to talk about Resolution that we're talking about the content of the discussion correctly. The discussion discusses the dangers of Islamic terrorism, as it is called, but a MP who spent several months in Bosnia as a special rapporteur of the European Parliament said it was nonsense. So, a man who is not Bosanac, a man who is a member of the European Parliament, said that these are nonsense, that these discussions are nonsense. And I think, to list the discussions of individual MEPs in the context of Resolution is correct and to point out that danger that really should not be, simply should not be ignored as a number of other dangers, but it is correctly cited in the discussion of this spectrum of discussion. I think it's simply a lack of time that's prevented the conversants or the debaters from suggesting it, too. And when we talk about Resolution, it speaks of terrorism as a general concept of terrorism and the concept of terrorism, border security, the issue of all countries in Europe as well as BiH's problem. And BiH is also required to use its borders, its asylum regulation, its integration and border management, its migration issue, etc. – to contribute and be a factor of stability in the region, because it can, it needs it as all other countries can and need it. As far as the resolution itself is concerned, I think it comes first of all as an expression of readiness to place the BiH issue further at the heart of the European Parliament's attention. We really have this year which is a problem, which is a stagnation, which is like an ugly dream, I hope that with a new year, a new period and the reasons and the culprits I will not have this opportunity, nor is it necessary, nor would it be appropriate, but I think that both the European Commission and those present in BiH in front of the EU are so far ahead that this presence after Washington and Moscow is the largest in the world, I think they have recognised their responsibility. And I think the need for the BiH issue in Brussels to be put back on the agenda and that this resolution is an expression of such and such understanding. And that is why I thank those who have initiated this resolution, and I thank those who have contributed to this resolution. And I think we can agree that the content of the resolution is really quite sensitive and balanced to describe the opportunities and describe the frameworks for resolution. There is also room for the existence of entities and for the competences of BiH and the authority at all levels and places for the state to control European standards at all levels, and for authorities at all levels to exercise all authorities at all levels to have their responsibilities. There is room for a compromise between political entities in BiH to be sought around constitutional reforms, above all, but also to reflect the advice of the Venice Commission and other experts that go towards the functioning state... and the rational state. So, there's a very favourable, balanced, I'd say, correct framework for solving these many of our problems that we're in, and we're really in trouble. I think... that it would be appropriate to complete this discussion with some productive conclusions, and I have made and I will try to suggest conclusions that differ somewhat from the proposals of the conclusions of my predecessors, they come to the same conclusion, but I think these conclusions that I propose introduce the situation in which we have this process here in Parliament. I'm just going to remind you that we've adopted the conclusions: that once every six months the Council of Ministers delivers a report on the implementation of the Stabilisation Agreement, that's one. And secondly, we have adopted the conclusion: that the Council of Ministers delivers action plans for this agreement and for partnership within the deadline that stands out these days. All that's in those action plans, that's 90% of this declaration, and that's why I don't think you need a special plan for this declaration. There are several thematic issues that need thematic, but what is in the action plans of the Agreement – it is 90% of the declaration. And so I propose the following conclusions: 1. The Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives supports the content of a resolution that objectively shows the state of the BiH integration process in the EU and points out the priorities of institutions at all levels of government in BiH. That's one conclusion. Other: 2. The House of Representatives calls and recalls the Council of Ministers to fulfil its obligation and to, by the end of the year, as it stands out, to consider delivering action plans to the Parliamentary Assembly to meet the Stabilisation and Priority Agreements of the European Partnership, as well as a report on the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I think these three things could be the reason for one thematic session. Six months since July 1st, since the Interim Agreement has already passed, and in particular six months since the signing of the Stabilisation Agreement has already passed. And it's just that it's time that and maybe that really, considering action plans, let's see what we're going to do this year, because what we had next year, what we had this year is a shame to all of us, this just can't last any longer. And third conclusion: 3. The House of Representatives supports and appreciates the need for the European Commission, according to the Resolution, to develop specific measures appropriate to the conditions in BiH in order to support and facilitate the BiH EU accession process. Namely, one point exists in the Resolution, you have probably noticed, which says the European Parliament is calling on the European Commission to develop specific measures for an appropriate situation in BiH. There is no state that has been the subject of a transition, which has gone towards the EU, that has a situation similar to BiH. There is no state that has a complex system, there is no state where there are so many dilemmas that European standards can be harmonised at state and entity levels. Very often, these dilemmas have kept us blocked by the law for months. I think the European Commission has room and is obliged to help more. And that is why I think it is necessary to highlight this conclusion calling for special measures for BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22212	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Beriz Belkić. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22213	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, of a kind and replica and an incorrect allegation. Here, I've been listening for an hour and a half, of course, to Denis Bećirović's intentions are always questionable and I don't believe that you started this with a desire for this country to meet the conditions rather than simply create your own promotion and create confusion in this House. So it's about the following... This resolution and dozens of other priority lists, etc., all MPs sitting here are absolutely famous. This House College is trying to distribute, obtain, translate and keep all parliamentarians informed. If you have followed up on parliamentary issues, our MP Azra Hadžiahmetović has asked the Council of Ministers for an answer - what about the Action Plan? We all know there's a document of action that's been adopted, as far as I know, on the Council of Ministers and now it's being updated, it's got a month and a half. I've been checking. It is in the Directorate for European Integration. It is a document that treats all Stabilisation and Association Agreements, the European Partnership and a series of other documents. So, what are we doing? We're starting all over again like nobody knows anything about this and nobody's done anything. And, through the form of a replica, we've been wasting God's time all day. Come on, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, this Action Plan here, we'll discuss it through the prism of these resolutions and the Stabilisation Agreement and all the documents for which we've made commitments. Of course, you can't take anything a la cart, you have to take everything and execute everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22214	I thank the esteemed representative, Belkić. Business intervention, a respected representative of Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22215	I must say that I am fragrant with Mr. Belkić's attitude which I heard neatly along the way, which he probably doesn't have the opportunity to listen to.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22216	Business intervention. What is your business intervention?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22217	Since I responded to a business intervention, Article 7. The Rules of Procedure, Mr. Belkić, says, quote: 'Employee', beware, 'it has the right and duty to attend the sessions of the House and the meetings of the committees... He participates in their work and is engaged in finding solutions and decisions." In this Rules of Procedure, no one gives you the right to declare to you any initiative or part of the agenda whether it was good or not. And you should be honored that in this whole discussion where this country is being plagued by Islamic terrorism, where it is doing what it is doing, you find it appropriate to use one of these initiatives and especially on the basis of these latest conclusions in such a way to discredit. Well done, Mr. Belkić, let's show you your true 58 face! And I'm sorry I don't have a chance to give you a chance, but I've already called myself to the Rules of Procedure on this occasion. And given what you said, I won't even listen to you in your replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22218	Replica, the esteemed representative of Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22219	Of course, you have to learn to listen. We've been listening to you all day. Replic, replica, of course. You have to learn to listen to a man. And so I said, and I have the right to say, his intention was not to solve the problem, but simply to make some kind of his own promotion and to create confusion here as if no one reads or knows anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22220	Now we'll agree on a follow-up. Since it's 1400 hours, according to the announcement, we'll now take a break by 15.00 hours and please be exact. We'll be working till 6:00. We've got seven more on the agenda to discuss this point. Please be exact at 15.00 hours. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep working. Next in a row is the distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković, who is currently missing, then the respected representative, Hadzhi Jovan Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22222	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to say anything special, I think we've made this point a little more politic, that it's been a good proposal to put this point on the agenda and that, I think, it was a good intention to end that conclusion. However, I think that the wish of most MPs was to make this policy, to be a responsible promoter, without being responsible for who it really is and who should be responsible. We have just heard from our colleagues that the Council of Ministers is preparing the Action Plan. And if it were fortunate that he had warned any MPs, they would not have had these problems today and would not have entered into such a story and wasted time at this session. I agree with all those who have found that there is something difficult to add and take away and that these recommendations are in some way our obligations if we want to meet on the European path. Here, as far as this resolution is concerned, I'd say there are a few places that suggest that we should have warned some things. I don't mean Parliament, but I think the Council of Ministers had the task. And I disagree with those who say there were no arguments at this first point, related to the vote of mistrust to the Council of Ministers. There are many arguments, and this is one 59 of the arguments, because much has been found that this state does not function, that its organs do not function, and also the organs of those chosen by this parliament. He said in one place: "The interim agreement that was in force since 1 July 2008 has gradually abolished most of the trade restrictions between the two sides, so he could put BiH's economy on trial in a short time." That's what I said as a man, I resent the Council of Ministers. It is good to sign this agreement, but for this agreement and its implementation, we should have prepared ourselves, we should have put forward proposals to this Parliament, all MPs, without distinction to opposition or position, take seriously when they make proposals, not immediately from being more political propaganda. If we had come seriously to protect domestic production, if we hadn't politicised about it, we'd probably have taken the Council of Ministers seriously, and we wouldn't have come to this situation today when it's a global crisis, when it's knocked on a lot of European countries' doors, and we just hope there won't be any impact on us. We've seen now that it's gonna be very good but it's gonna be just too late and, I mean, it's impossible to stop something like that. Furthermore, they pointed out things that are a problem in this country and what we were talking about to resolve the Constitution, as it says here, at point 31, where the debate on the future constitutional organisation of the country must be conducted by the BiH Parliament, calls for a public debate, etc. We are eyewitnesses that what they suggest we do in bodies, in Parliament, in institutions – that we have a different situation and therefore there is politicisation. Today, it is enjoying the public that some leaders have agreed on what it will look like, but obviously it is not enough that it could be implemented here in Parliament. It is far better to go to a public debate, it is far better to be in Parliament as often as possible to come to a solution as soon as possible, because the way out of this situation and going through all these reforms is simply what they are talking about, and it is about the constitutional organisation of this country. All they're saying is that there are international structures that give us a real desire to stabilize the situation here. So at one point, they favor these agreements that aren't enough to make a majority here, and in another case, they condemn that some of them are guilty because they can't agree on it. Then, in point 39, it reminds representatives of the international community that their talks in BiH are the country's institutions, not leaders of political parties. Contradictive! Political party leaders are conversators, institutions are not at all. This again says that we have from international structures or groups, or individuals, that they are simply going in that direction and this really seriouss the situation that this Parliament is too, here I am saying, not to say, not to the opposition, but to the majority, simply to the representatives of their representatives who have proposed in the Council of Ministers a difficult situation, to simply get out of this crisis, out of this situation, to start solving problems ourselves, not to get into this situation, that next year really is the year just problems and the end of the year not to be the end of the year where we start blaming each other, not the opposition position, but the position itself for reasons more because it is the next year and the election year. I'm really not saying this for political reasons, I'm saying this is another argument that we haven't given ourselves enough to solve these problems and meet us on this road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22223	I thank the honourable representative Mitrović. Replica, second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22224	Thank you. I will once again call for co-operation by all who are on their way to BiH's European integration and will move with a declaration of support on this path. Mr. Mitrović listed some members of this convention or declaration. You know very well, and I know your position and I respect your position, that there is no transfer of competence from the RS to BiH, but explain to me the way in which the part, here, of these members that you did not mention and where they are going, will be able to do so if we do not juggle this process of transferring part of competence from the RS, i.e. allowing BiH to be on the path of European integration. Explain to me how you can convince some other MPs here and the political parties that your position should support and the way we can do it. Here, and we'll join that attitude. Find any draft constitutional changes that can be supported by other MPs and parties, so that we can discuss the draft here together in this House. And that's where we're going to join that... but don't in advance accuse people who are trying to find, first, a minimum of what we can agree on, and then spread the circle of people and parties that will support our agreement. When I was talking about arguments about the Council of Ministers, I believe that the initiative that you have submitted is very serious and it is legal, but it was not serious, because, if it were serious, we would not go to the agenda 'giving confidence or mistrust to the Council of Ministers', but what you had business rights in Article 163 that the Council of Ministers submitted to Dom a report on their work at least once a year, so that we could discuss this report which the Council of Ministers will bring here, and the arguments regarding their report that we also say that you should say so, so that we can discuss. I think that politics is the way this agenda point here in Parliament has been explained for two hours today and everyone was aware that neither today's session nor the citizens of BiH will benefit from this agenda. I call again on you to try to give real support to BiH's EU integration with a declaration of support and you will have a partner to discuss such support in the SNSD.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22225	Replica, a respected representative of Hadži Jovan Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22226	I have indeed said that I have no intention of politicizing, that my signature on the launch of this initiative is the reasons – the programme objectives that most have adopted. Don't say that the opposition adopted it, and I expect that without distinction to the opposition's position, you carry out these programming goals. In these programming goals, one thing that solves all these things, in my opinion, as a man who I've thought about for a long time and while I was a parliamentarian in the RS – is here this point 3 where you said: bring constitutional solutions that will establish a functional and modern state of BiH, and we simply go round. It doesn't bother Mitrović or any of these. The majority is enough, the two-thirds majority exist to establish all this. What's wrong with just that most of them doing it? What would that mean if I, though, didn't know, gave my voice or didn't vote? It doesn't mean anything to you. You can bring anything, you can refuse anything. That's what you're talking about, Mr. Živković. How do you get out of this crisis? From this crisis, we're just focusing on this thing. We would solve reforms and decide that this country would be 61 functional and eventually see in that functionality what is most of the constraint when it comes to entity functionality and the rest. And the transfer of powers, absolutely, is behind the transfer of powers without this solution, because here, look around this resolution, look at point 28 of what they're saying. He says: they regret the fact that the RS has threatened to unilaterally withdraw from the state power transmission company, and we are clear, if it has been brought and transferred, that without the consent of a nation, we cannot return it. Is that supposed to be politicized? Who makes that policy? It's just one real situation that you're making that problem yourself. We're not the problem, we can't be the problem. You can always vote us and I think your move is what's good, you better keep your mouth shut. And about this, I think it was quite good that Mr. Bećirović suggested the conclusion and that we end up with it, because I really think that that conclusion is in place and that it should have ended with this, because we can't add -- subtract, we can only ask ourselves what we didn't do to make smaller these points, the smaller number of these points, to get rid of as many of them as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22227	Next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković. Let the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22228	Here, I will try to make my contribution to this point, and even this session, ends today, if at all possible. I'm going to try really hard not to talk about the blackest right-wings, not the redest left-handeds there are, probably, in this document, both. I'm really not going to talk about how binding this resolution is. The resolution, and it is obvious that it has come to the agenda with aspirations to turn into something that is binding for all institutions. Of course, it shows which direction BiH should go in the next period and it is certain that this is a guideline but in no case a commitment that we could not discuss today. That's why I don't agree with those who say we can't discuss what the resolution says. Of course we can discuss, we can express our views, and we will not change the content of the Resolution no matter what they say here. So, it will remain as it is, but the debate here in Parliament itself is probably meant to tell us what we agree with and what we disagree with, no matter what we cannot change in this. It is not correct, whenever the position is in trouble, to ask the opposition to move from a declaration to essential support for European integration, when the position has the capacity to end all this without any vote from the opposition. Perhaps it would be good if the opposition asked the position to move from the declarative to the essential support of the reform, with a declaration. It seems to me that more, at this point, would paint the real situation in BiH, and not only that, but also here in this parliament. I agree that the proposing's intentions are not sincere, but also the proponent has the right to dishonest intentions, has the right to personal promotion, and to promote his own party, especially if you in a position give him a chance to make a point. I have to say, unfortunately, the position is in its own way and in relation to these issues, in fact, gives the opposition the right to deal with this in this way and sometimes inexorably. 62 As far as I'm concerned, I don't think we needed this debate. Here, I'm in opposition too, but I don't think we needed this debate. It would be good if we knew that today this would be on the agenda if we tried in all ways to get paper from the Council of Ministers as part of the discussion material at this session, which would make a significant number of these discussions lose meaning. So, the document in which the Council of Ministers says it ends or has completed an action programme, that all these issues are there, etc., that soon it will be in Parliament, which would have affected my debate long ago. But because it's not there, it's not our fault, gentlemen, because it's not there, it's your fault. When I say you, I mean, first of all, to these now, to these parties, means, which they formed, they supported this Council of Ministers, no matter what they do in the sections at this point. Of course I could, like all my colleagues here right now, discuss some of these solutions. I guess there's nothing simpler when someone mentions pressure on the media, on NGOs, etc. return it with terrorism or when someone mentions terrorism to return it with this other and put this thing, that is, all this paper into a completely different position. I don't mean to, really, talk about it that way, but I just wanted to point out a few things where we did something about it. In fact, attitude (7) says the Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. the European Parliament, calls on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to monitor the implementation of the Agreement in close co-operation with the entity parliaments and to facilitate the adoption of legislation relating to this agreement and the European Partnership. So, this commission or the Ad hoc commission that is working on amendments to the Rules of Procedure has provided for one provision, a new provision in the Rules of Procedure, which provides that all laws that bear the label of EI importance, therefore for European integration, are to be considered automatically by a reduced procedure. So, per member, it means procedures in accordance with current Article 126, and that's kind of an attempt for this entire Parliament to at least one of these points that we respect which one of us depends on. The rest, I must say, that the vast majority here is not dependent on us, and I, I must be honest, expected from the promoter, so I wondered what the goal of putting this point is, I expected the promoter to define here Parliament's obligations to this document through the conclusions. Well, to say that in the next period we'll do that, that, that and that. Of course, by the way, we're going to commit the Council of Ministers to his obligations, I guess it's not a dispute, that's the easiest thing for us to do, to commit the Council of Ministers, and it's the hardest thing to do with our commitment. Also, there are several very serious warnings here. posebeno, let's say, regret that despite serious statements about BiH in the fight against corruption and organised crime, trafficking, money laundering, progress in the area, political interference and lack of political will. This, in my opinion, is one of the most serious findings of the European Parliament, with all, of course, what some colleagues have indicated, but this, in my view, deserves special attention. Of course, I don't think he's the only one who deserves it. It is also a fact that the position (39) reminds representatives of the international community that their talks in BiH are institutions, not leaders of the main political parties. I think this is actually a leader's release and I don't see what the problem is. I just think that the political parties that make up the parliamentary majority should postpone this. But what's the problem? The problem is that this strengthens this parliament and representatives, or MPs in this House, cannot do anything without a leader, and here they would get a more significant role. And not only here, but in the Council of Ministers and in every other institution. I think it's a good way to resolve these issues of discussion in institutions, I guess everyone in the institutions, each of their own party will have some instructions, but it will avoid some personal frustrations which, at least as far as I can read from the media, have been at the leaders' meetings and, if you will, before the meetings of the leaders through the media, 63 animities have often been created that could not be overcome at these meetings and that certainly would not have been on such bodies. And finally finish. I think that, once again, we are premature or today we have had a debate that is doomed to failure because we did not have clear views of the Council of Ministers and the dynamics of the Council of Ministers on these issues, and there is no point in returning the material now, but I am closer to Mr Genjac's proposal that the Council of Ministers once in that conclusion, not all, once again, I think that the second, that the Council of Ministers delivers, as it points out these six months of its obligations, delivers this Action Plan, introduces it, and then together with this and all other materials we bring in, not this point, but this issue, in some way, to end, with the obligation of regular information, and here I support this proposal to inform Parliament once a month about what has been done, not about the realisation of this resolution but the obligations we have on this European path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22229	I would like to thank Reverend Novaković. The next is the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, let the distinguished representative Husein Nanić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22230	Thank you, Chairman. I will take care of the agenda point, so I will talk about the European Parliament resolution and I will not deal with discussions, i.e. a stenogram with discussions, a biography of debates... And so on, political orientations and so forth, the more I think we've already lost enough and part of our time, and that wasn't the purpose of the promoter himself either. Not going into the proposing's intentions, however, I did understand that today's agenda point, regardless of who the promoter was, is an opportunity for this parliament to look at some things, to see how others see us, or not to blame the mirror, if the picture is ugly, especially, and to pay attention and look back at what those who see us see us in the way they see us, is, or, say, what we should do, especially what a country full of mouths is talking about the EU. I also agree with my colleague Marković, who mentioned whether we should discuss the Resolution, so, or receive as a given material. I think it should also be discussed in that sense that if the assessment is negative that there may not be qualifications of that kind in the next period, no matter who sees them. Similarly, it is especially important to receive as a given material, i.e. as a guide or a background, in order to initiate something, or do, speed up, etc. and to all of those, I really apologize for saying in general, although I believe that everyone will be recognized, that I would just remind you that whoever does not like certain elements of this resolution should understand this as a stimulant that the sooner we enter the European Parliament as a full member of the EU, the sooner we may also use business opportunities for the qualifications of such species not to be presented as they are, or as someone sees them in a negative sense. 64 I also agree with the role mentioned here, especially through the Council of Ministers' conclusions to introduce us to the plan of action. Here I will also remind you, as my colleague Beriz did, I have asked for today, and this was not the first time this Parliament has asked the Council of Ministers for a plan of activity in the realization of obligations or a degree of compliance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. However, there are obligations here that arise for other institutions, not only for the Council of Ministers. I want to draw attention first to the obligations arising from the BiH Parliament. And here I remind you of point 7 which also calls on the Parliamentary Assembly to monitor, in close cooperation with the entity parliaments, the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and to facilitate the adoption of legislative rules concerning both the Agreement and the European Partnership. I just want to draw attention to this that maybe it's time for this parliament to make a plan of action in terms of initiation and some form of institutional coordination with entity parliaments. This team before both entity parliaments, i.e. the RS Assembly and the Federation Parliament, formed appropriate bodies for European integration. And more so, if we are on the same path, if we are on the same job, and especially because of potential problems, different understanding of the European path or the broad spectrum of our understanding of commitments from the European road, so that we do not have some parallelisms, bullets, different directions, etc., on the same path, I would suggest that Parliament also consider some form of institutional coordination in this regard. Furthermore, by solving, of course, all the problems that have followed and so far communication, I want to take a turn, I apologize once again for what I'm going to do and I'm going to use this piece of paper... but there's really no way I'm going to elaborate on each of these items, but I've defined myself on something that's right in front of us, so I'm not going back. And here I'm just going to remind you that, let's say, in paragraph 17, as regards the call to the census based on the separate data, I'm just going to remind you of the methodology in the statistics used in the census, the method of separate data for which this Parliament has received official interpretation of what that means. Well, let's take care of that, if we really talk about the European path, if we want these documents to be a guide in terms of stimuli on the approach of the European path, then we should also take care of it, because tomorrow, probably, in due course, we will meet laws that regulate the matter of that kind. So let me also look back on what it was about state property, not really entering the controversy that is, and the content of the controversy that marked it or the background of the polemic that marked it. But here's the need to draw attention to the fact that in this position, the 38th states that the state needs to get the resources necessary to accomplish its task. And the state is much more than a state institution. And that is what is said today and here in Parliament, and that is part of what some are calling for, and it is also about the obligations that will be made before this Parliament at the very moment. I am pleased that counterpart Novaković mentioned that the item, i.e. Article 39, which reminds international community representatives that the institutions are conversing with the international community, not leaders of the main political forces, and in this sense believes that institutions must be involved, i.e. they must play a primary role. And since we have, in the meantime, had some major events since 28 October, when the Resolution was adopted, and I suppose that the international community has managed this, therefore some agreements and arrangements are, therefore, with the leaders, completely outside the international community. 65 I would also like to mention the commitment, precisely calling for Parliament to establish a plan of action, and to Article 31, which says, among other things, that "the debate on the future constitutional arrangement of the country must be led by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH". And in this respect, the European Parliament calls on us to have a public debate openly and transparently. I think it is time we really made a plan of the activities of this Parliamentary Assembly, not to expect the Council of Ministers to make us a plan of activity for Parliament or for any other institution, or to think that someone else is guilty of perhaps not coming out of this Parliament something... that we may have been invited to. Because it won't amnesty us to fulfill, among other things, the tasks listed in other points, and I will specifically quote 32. "the need for structural reform of the BiH state". That the resolution refers to elements that are much more, even, which Parliament is facing, and not some other institution, I will remind you of Article 35, i.e. paragraph 35, which, among other things, refers to expressing regret over the fact that the electoral authorities have not considered the problems bh. Citizens who went abroad during the war, but still want to exercise their voting right. So I'm just going to remind you of the numerous debates and the different approaches that we have had here in Parliament and the decisions that we have made, or which we have not made, which is why, among other things, there has been a formulation of this kind. I therefore propose - indeed, in order to be as effective as possible, not really entering into stories or discussions as the writer wanted to say or to propose this document, or debate - I think it would be good for Parliament to make a plan of action and a proposal for measures to meet the obligations to which the European Parliament calls it. There are many more items here that relate to parliamentary obligations either in terms of meeting obligations or in terms of an initiative towards the Council of Ministers, i.e. other bodies within BiH to launch or accelerate the BiH EU integration process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22231	I thank the distinguished representative Hadžiahmetović. The next is the distinguished representative Husein Nanić, and let the distinguished representative Jozo Križanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22232	I thank you, Chairman. I do not belong to a group of those MPs who appreciate that we had the need to say something about this resolution and I appreciate that this resolution today was not on the agenda so that it would go completely unnoticed and most MPs would not even read it. In particular, I appreciate the need for what Mr. Novaković said, that, based on these 40 positions, we should have had a position after a month and a half of the Council of Ministers on these points of view. The least we needed was for our commission to also give a position or some conclusions on these views. What I cannot, here, through these two years of working in the Parliamentary Assembly, as an MP, I cannot understand that nervousness that we have been working with since the beginning in the Parliamentary Assembly. In a month, we have two six-hour sessions. 66 So 12 hours of parliamentary debate in BiH at the highest level we have. And we have a nervous feeling that all of these questions, 40 of these big questions, will be cut short, so we don't answer. I feel a disturbance inside, since I'm taking time for MPs who might have someone else, they're going, 99% of us professionals. In that sense, I cannot give up the impression of making this nervousness for parliamentary debates on very serious issues. ...12 hours a month! The next thing I want to mention here is that we had a European Commission progress report in BiH a month ago. No Niko, I would like that report too, not because I want to talk or listen to something, we all have our reasons to listen and not listen, something interesting is not, but we really needed that report to be found, we took it to the commission, to find that report in a parliamentary debate. Here, it's been over a month, we haven't had it here. What is our role as MEP in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly? In the devaluation of these conclusions that we make, here and here we have seven conclusions of new ones, each of them is very good, and it's done all day long for some conclusion to pass, then we wait one year at a time, and we repeat, so we strengthen the Council of Ministers' conclusions to deliver them to us. Here in these 40s, so that I do not continue to be nervous about those who have other reasons to shorten these discussions, these 40 grades and obligations are going – you are probably, if you have read carefully – from the request to the European Commission to finance the UN disarmament programme. It's a very important thing. And today he's talking about when terrorists come to arms illegally, etc. in BiH... in which there's a lot more of that illegal weaponry, that's the thing we should maybe talk about all day. The European Commission is asking to continue financing the UN disarmament programme. Secondly, in these positions, the Parliamentary Assembly is bound by the Council of Ministers to end in 2009 with a mine removal programme in BiH, and here it says in 2009. They have an estimate that it can't be in 20 years' time. They have some stories about the draft budget, they don't know if we have a fening for it – for demining. But we're having a debate in five minutes, in ten minutes, and then I really don't see that there's anything serious we can do about it. The entities commit themselves, the Brcko District commits themselves, the local political leaders commit to contribute to these obligations... that we have been given. There is talk of privatisation, of restitution, of return, and this is really necessary at least, here, now, I appreciate that the benefit is enormous that we have had the opportunity to stay through this very short time on these BiH scores. For me it is indeed one alarm for all institutions, for us, the Parliamentary Assembly, what is up to us, for all in BiH from the European Parliament institution whose authorities will assess our progress and evaluate the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. And we're questioning some things and we don't think there's any need to... That's why I really think, I don't know what the proposaler's intention is, but it was a need for the Parliamentary Assembly, for us MPs, to consider these things, to tell them what we think and to make possible conclusions and to commit those who need to work. What I wish we could see here, what Mr. Novaković said, to get us laws, to finally amend the Rules of Procedure with the designation of those who are our obligation to European integration, especially the markings, and to shorten it, to adopt those regulations. And what I would like to see personally, as an MP and as a citizen of this country, is that we have the political powers to form this national committee modelled by some countries that are ahead of us, that all 67 political parties would enter into and take responsibility for those issues which are the future and obligations of the Agreement that we have accepted towards international institutions, to take on that responsibility and to have and to reach an agreement on these issues. Unfortunately, in this atmosphere of debate and this kind of weather and as long as we are discussing this, it seems to me that even the best conclusions that could give results will be devalued and, in the end, by the Council of Ministers' relationship to this issue and attitude. In the end, let me conclude. Here, we got this document from the Foreign Minister. So it wasn't even at the Council of Ministers' meeting. That speaks enough of the seriousness that the Council of Ministers is approaching this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22233	I thank the esteemed representative, Nanić. The next is distinguished representative Jozo Križanović, and let the distinguished representative Mirko Okolić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm really going to be very brief. However you turn, this is a continuation of the debate, in a sense, that we had on the previous agenda. I'm just going to try two very important, in my opinion, things to focus on. You see, after the huge accident that BiH had, I think we are now in great luck with this international community's relationship to BiH. Imagine a country that is not in Europe, which has decided to build a democratic society, in order to pay fatly for a recording of the situation in its country and to pay fatly for some way that it should pass. So what I'm saying here is that we don't appreciate this happy circumstance, and when we get a picture of the situation with the main problems, a real picture of the situation, a real clue, we don't use it. You see, we were waiting two years ago for the signature of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We kind of initialled it a year ago, signed six months ago, and there's still no action plan to realise this Stabilisation Agreement. It is a very serious, responsible international agreement. You see, in this resolution alone, these are colleagues who have found, in one place only, the Parliament is mentioned in Article 7. And now that could easily fool us, let's let Parliament make some kind of a commitment plan about it. It's completely wrong. I think that we as a state parliament are obliged to insist on a state plan of action, on state obligations. It does not enter the Council of Europe and the integration of Parliament, or governments, of states, of orderly states. And however you turn, all this debate will end at one, five or ten conclusions that will inevitably go towards the Council of Ministers. And the experience with these conclusions and the realization of theirs, unfortunately, we have a very bad one. 68 So, I am not convinced of the fertility of the results of this debate, but in addition, I think it is useful to discuss at least this way and we also gain confidence in the seriousness of this problem and return to seriousness when we commit to the Council of Ministers' trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22235	I thank the esteemed representative Križanović. The next is the distinguished representative Mirko Okolić, and let the distinguished representative Bakir Izetbegović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22236	Mr. Chairman, I will shorten my discussion, given that some of my views have been expressed in previous discussions, but I will say what has not been stated and I cannot say, and that is: this is the point of the agenda which certainly deserves attention and certainly deserves to be found in Parliament, or in this assembly, but I think this is the reverse order. I guess it's in the inability to get information or in the inability of knowing about this problem that some of us are going this way, and eventually it can be concluded that in this part of the job, we're going from tail to tail. What do I mean? If nothing, we need to pick up experiences from countries that have passed the transition and that, I say, after our unfortunate war entered the EU and pick up from them everything they needed to pass that transition and reach that level so that they could be admitted to the EU. It is something that should not be considered by inventing warm water, but simply overwrite and adapt to our conditions. Furthermore, we have witnessed that many countries – especially Slovenia and Slovakia – are known to us, several times we have heard from their most responsible people, and here I see that this is the way Montenegro is going to go, which is likely to outrun us in this, the real team leading this problem, and Parliament is reporting as far as it came and asking Parliament for what is in its jurisdiction. We are now engaged here in the affairs of the Directorate for European Integration and of some other state bodies and we are trying to do some work directly, we are giving guidance and suggestions, not respecting it, or someone did not appreciate that he had to do it first, and I am thinking primarily here about the Directorate for European Integration, which this is primarily a task, which this had to study, which had to give its statement and opinion on this, and then refer to the Council of Ministers, if not directly, which is again logical for the Council of Ministers to be manifested and come to this Parliament with clear views and what it takes for Parliament to support these European integrations, i.e. in preparation for the entry into Europe. Now, I'm afraid they've stayed aside, I'm afraid we've come to one, so let's just say, pictures when we had a meeting of OHR and the European Commission, the Parliament of Europe, where we, listening to some of their stories, came to the conclusion and started proposing ourselves and offering them money. Well, gentlemen, have you spoken to the Minister of Finance and to this ministry to increase your budget, so this is small, you need so much money! Well, you need people, so you see that you don't have 69 people, we've been caught by some mania, and we started giving them suggestions that they don't ask for at all, so that in the end all of this would simply be analized by the performer, because at that time in the Directorate Mr. Topčagić was and said, "No, no, we have enough people, we can get it all, we have enough and money, and we're happy with you as much as you've given us," etc., etc. In that line of work, it seems like something's wrong and something's not answering. That is why it is insane that before these institutions, especially the Directorates for European Integrations, which should propose to this Parliament and the Council of Ministers what it is they need, what kind of team to expand and to make and, if not every day here, then on a weekly basis, come new proposals and suggestions to the Council of Ministers and to the Presidency and to Parliament – what is new that we need to do, the level to which we have reached, whether we are late in the realization of certain tasks and jobs or we are somewhere, fortunately, but I do not believe that we have not exceeded some deadlines so far, etc. And that's what would be called the right path. And we need to get rid of that bag if it's really necessary to get rid of it and if there's results behind it. That is why it is my, here to say, suggestion that this issue requires a Directorate for European Integration and, through the Council of Ministers, to give its opinion and analysis and then to come to Parliament with concrete proposals and conclusions, suggestions, etc. They must mean to be an operational, executive body that this BiH, with its proposals to institutions that can confirm this, will lead to the EU's convergence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22237	I thank the esteemed representative of Okolić. The next is distinguished representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22238	So, in the introduction of Resolution, it was said that it was not binding, and it is being repeated here today by fellow MPs. It is not as binding as it is not binding for Bosnia to be part of the EU someday. We never have to become part of the EU, but it would be good, right, if everyone around us didn't enter the EU without us being alone. If we are going to the EU, then we should listen to what people who from a distance may see our situation better than we do. So, I'll, in order to cut short, quote some of the things that I consider particularly important. 'Membership in the EU is the future of BiH, but only as a single state, not entities that do not have their own autonomous independence. It is in the interest of the entity to ensure that BiH is a fully functional state, capable of meeting all the criteria and obligations of membership." It recalls "the strengthening of the central state does not mean the weakening of entities, but rather the creation of conditions for an effective administration that works for the common good of all BiH citizens". Furthermore, '125,072 people are registered as internally displaced persons, of which, according to the BiH government, 8,000 of them still live in collective centres'. And then Article 17 said they were "convinced that greater efforts to facilitate return are of particular importance in terms of the need to implement a new census in 2011. So they tie up the return and the list. The need for return is referred to in Articles 15, 16 and 18 and Articles 3 and 31 to 33 and 39 on constitutional reform. In Article 37, it is said that 'are particularly unhappy with the lack of progress in ending the agreement for Brcko District'. Political leaders in BiH are warned that the "Arbitrary 70 Court ruling on Brcko status is final, and that it cannot be questioned". And finally, in Article 38. "calls on BiH politicians to recognise the need for a reasonable distribution of assets between the state and other administrative levels, which is one of the conditions for the closure of the OHR". It requires the same to be engaged seriously, so the words 'to go towards a reasonable distribution of assets and to engage seriously' are used. Why am I saying all this? Because about 10 days ago or 15, we had a meeting of a part of the coalition leader in Odzak or Prud, who just opened the door to solve these things that I have now focused on from the European Parliament Resolution. However, in point 39, which my predecessors have already mentioned, it is said that "the solutions must finally be found here in this parliament". So, the Prudish Agreement has opened the door, but what's going to be written here is only most of the empty papers that need to be printed and it is on us and it doesn't need to be run away from. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22239	I thank the esteemed representative Izetbegović. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. And we're going to the fifth item of the agenda: "Ad." 5. Sadik Bahtić's request for consideration of BiH State Property Bill Proposal for a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure Dear Representative Sadik Bahtić delivered the draft law on state property in the procedure on 19.11.2008, with a request for an emergency procedure. You got the material for a short procedure. I am opening a debate on a request for a procedure under Article 126. Rules of Procedure. Dear Proposer, Representative Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22241	Thank you. You have received this Bill on State Property under a shortened procedure, Article 126. I'll list an explanation as to why we've referred to a brief procedure. First of all, because the law of matter has been known for four or five years and the BiH state has an obligation that the international community requires it to adopt, 13 years after Dejton. It means that this law of the state has both the right and the obligation and the interest, above all, and the political and economic interest to adopt this law. And the second, in my opinion, the biggest reason why this is under a shortened procedure is the Prudic agreement from which the law on state property should also be proposed to this home and to address the issue of state property. And if the law on the basis of the Prudish Accords was passed, I think, by the Party for BiH Club, that leads to a certain breakdown of the state, because 71 states that do not have their own property and are not states, and what was agreed in Prudo is past, it is not in accordance with international law. The opposite is also the Constitution of BiH, a member and where it decidently states that continuity has been confirmed. And it is also contrary to the international agreement on the succession of former Yugoslavia's countries, where each state, the republic of the former Yugoslavia, is also an heir to independence. All when you take that into account, I think it's necessary and in the interest, it's our obligation here to protect the state, because it's huge property, especially that this law that was proposed, it's simply written, there are 13 short members. It sets out all state assets, registers, registers, registers, registers to the state, and then the state will make use of lower levels: entities, districts, local communities and cantons. And what remains that way again, then goes normally to a public tender and income goes to the budget. Also, this law stipulates that everything that has already been trafficked since 6 April 1992, and huge property, means that this property is also returned to the state or that the state is being depreciated, because that deal from Prud would in fact legalise all the criminal illegal activities that took place in the meantime, so here is the number of all moving and immovable assets.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22242	Now all we're discussing is a request for a brief procedure. So please explain the request.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22243	Well, I explained it. It's the state. We can't leave the state without property, the state can't exist without property. So, however, we think it's urgent to act. And if we all love the state, and if we work for the state, if we live from this country, we should support this law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22244	Thank you very much. Reported for discussion: Honorable representative Momčilo Novaković, and let the distinguished representative of Remzija Kadrić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22245	I'll do it very briefly. I, as far as I understand my colleague, another reason why this law is proposed under Article 126 is the fear that some other law will enter into the procedure before this law. It's someone else who's agreed, as they say, in Prud or on Prud. So, I, if that's the case, and it looks like it is, then I guess it'd be a good idea now, I think, that we all need to support this Article 126. One to keep the other law from entering, and the other to get the other one to fall. Because as long as this one is, there's no one. So, it takes Article 126 to get this bill down as soon as possible, and then those of Prud to propose this second one who has a better chance of going through than what he suggested, at least as far as I understand it, suggested a colleague. 72 On that side, therefore, my suggestion is to support Article 126, i.e. a debate in a shortened procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22246	I would like to thank Reverend Novaković. Next is Remzija Kadrić's distinguished representative, and let the distinguished representative Rifat Dolić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22247	So, I'll do it very briefly. As far as this request for a shortened procedure is concerned, I would just like to remind myself of what we have already known and we know that the High Representative has made several decisions extending the Law on the provisional ban on the availability of state property of BiH and therefore that the issue has not yet been resolved for a long time... about five years this issue is not being resolved, and it is asking us to do so in a shorter procedure. I have also asked one question: let's see how many cases of exemption from this Law on the temporary availability of state property. I haven't got an answer yet to that question. So, the request for a shortened procedure is indeed justified and for these reasons I believe that... regardless of and unrelated to these agreements and agreements from Prud, this request has been established and for these reasons needs to be resolved as soon as possible. Of course, with this deal in Prudo, there are some doors open, we are now, of course, asking whether that door is open that leads forward or the door that leads back. For these reasons, we, by law, answer that this law opens the doors of BiH forward, not back.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22248	Thank you. Dear Representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22249	Gentlemen, the chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I think this is an important law and there's no reason to bring it under a shortened procedure. The reason why this law is no longer adopted by a shortened procedure is the fact that this law is politicised and that it is the means of political accounting for some political parties. We need a quality law on state property and it is completely irrelevant who will propose such a law and I don't care about the party's prestige that it wants to achieve. We are witnessing these days that BiH's state property is being used as a means of bidding: who is for BiH and who isn't; or who is more and who is less for BiH and who is often talking about it and those who don't know much about state property. State property is a category that has been present for centuries in economics, law and other segments, and I don't see the need for us to invent hot water or use it as a means of politicizing. I am that this law is considered in a regular procedure so that we have more time and space to get to the highest quality content of the law on state property. The state property 73 is important for the BiH state, first of all because until today it is not fully clear its status and this property is being used irrationally, it is being held irresponsiblely, but this is not the reason to liquefy and bid on state property who is more or less for BiH and to fabricate and produce BiH traitors in an inappropriate way. Therefore, I propose that this law be considered in the ordinary procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22250	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative of Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22251	I'm just saying, there's no one here who's a patriot, who's a traitor. Here you go, Mr. Dolić, suggest you propose the same law, we can... Make it fundamental, we'll adopt it. This is about state and state property. It's not about parties. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22252	Thank you. The following is the registered honourable representative Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22253	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us one law or topic that BiH should address in the coming period. And I would be very pleased that the legislator of this law has a high-quality majority to adopt this law in this House, because it would be a step forward or one of resolving a very important issue in BiH that stands before us. Every other reason in this house is a political nature and it is not good to open up big controversy in the beginning and eventually diverge on this issue that we need to solve in the future. I don't know if there have been any other types of meetings elsewhere and whether these meetings, possibly, have agreed that such or such a law could be supported in this BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in order for BiH to resolve this important issue, in order for BiH to open its way to the Council of Europe. So if there is a quality majority in this home, I would also vote that this law is going into emergency procedure, if what I just mentioned is only orderly or to show here how there are good solutions, but unfortunately, so it can't get quality support in this home. I think that finally all of us in BiH, in this Parliamentary Assembly, should turn around and consider the real position we are in. The real position in which we are located is that all the laws in this house must, unfortunately, go through a procedure that also has an entity vote in the vote. I'd like this law to have or get most of it in this home today, but maybe there are some things that I haven't been informed about or... eventually this law will pass. So, if they won't, then I think we're playing with very important issues, when it comes to BiH. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22254	I thank the esteemed representative Ahmetović. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement - Proposer: Representative Bajazit Jašarević I remind you, in the College as well as in the Committee, an agreement has been reached on the request for an emergency procedure. We are left with a debate on the Bill's Proposal, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. No hearings have been filed. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a BiH Aviation Act (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22257	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the College, here I think this is a good suggestion, so today we have a debate on both laws, because it's a package of laws from the realisation of the ATM strategy, so the Air Traffic Management Strategy. To skip this whole introduction that the chairman of the House of Representatives has already said, so on constitutional grounds and all this, I want to say the reasons for the adoption of these laws. 75 Currently in civil aviation in BiH, both functional and institutional fragmentation is present. The BiH Air Force Act, which this parliament passed in 2004, established a Civil Aviation Directorate at the state level as an administrative organisation within the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport, which has jurisdiction in all segments of civil aviation, in accordance with the BiH Constitution, except for the construction and management of airports that have been given to entities, or cities in the Federation. At entity levels, entity directors of civil aviation were established, that is, the Federal Civil Aviation Directorate of the Federation, the FedKAD and the Republic of the Civil Aviation Directorate of RSKAD in RS, which BHDC, therefore the State Civil Aviation Directorate, assigned, or delegated operational operations to provide air navigation services, and those approach and toranial controls, while the other part of the services, so routine controls, air, are performed by institutions from neighbouring SMATS States from Serbia and the CCR from Croatia in accordance with interstate contracts in which BiH is a contracting party. Given the above, it can be said, therefore, that there is a fragmented system here in BiH, complicated to provide, inefficient, based on multiple contracts with third parties and can have a negative impact on flight safety. Let me say a few words, so as an explanation for this first law, so civil aviation law. How BiH ratified the Convention on Interstate Civil Aviation... so-called The Chicago Convention has committed itself as a Contracting State to comply with its provisions, and in this respect it is in line with the international obligations undertaken. Article 28 The Chicago Conventions stipulate that every contractual state, which BiH has become by signing this Convention, is obliged to provide in its territory airports for services, meteorological services and other facilities in order to facilitate international air navigation, in accordance with the recommended standards and practices or established from time to time in accordance with this Convention. The BiH presidency is on 19th. Nine. In 2007, it adopted a Decision on the ratification of a Multilatellar Agreement concluded between the European Community and its Member States. So I won't list them here, but BiH is among them. And that is the agreement, so in the area of the establishment of the European Common Aviation Area or... so-called... ECAA Multilateral Agreement. Article 2 The deal was committed by BiH to separate the air service provider from the national regulatory authority by the end of the second transitional period, as the current regulatory authority is also the authority responsible for providing air services, controls which, as I said, have been delegated to entity directors. BiH has also pledged to prepare all the regulations by the end of the first transitional period, to apply all EU regulations that are listed in the Annex to that Treaty. BiH has also pledged to separate service providers and regulatory authorities by the end of the second transition period. Since the Civil Aviation Act is existing, therefore adopted in 2004, it is necessary to fully comply with those EU rules, and that formal separation of the functions of air navigation service providers from the regulatory authority should be carried out, it is proposed, or proposed, that the Council of Ministers be included in its programme in order to adopt a completely new law. And that law is here today before you, so the proposal for civil aviation law. I therefore beg that in this first reading he be adopted. 76 A few words now, therefore on the second law, on the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the provision of air navigation services which, as I said, represents a set that is necessary to meet all these conditions and needs of BiH and to meet our obligations under international agreements. So, in response to all that I said, therefore to all these shortcomings in the air control system in BiH, the BiH Council of Ministers adopted the Air Traffic Management Strategy in BiH and so on in 2005. The ATM strategy that set two key strategic goals. First, create an ATM system that will be able to take responsibility for providing all air navigation services, in the BiH airspace uniquely by the domestic legal entity. To meet the requirements resulting from the CAT agreement,... the system of the agreement, be in line with the principles of the European Aviation Safety Organisation, the EuroCONTROL abbreviations. Two, carry out a functional and institutional transformation of BiH's civil aviation institutions. So without its own ATM system and legal person to provide air navigation control services, BiH is unable to respond properly and be involved in neither the wider European nor regional aviation integration. Although the benefits of this agreement are multiple, I will list only a few. So BiH institutions would finally fully implement the Constitution's defined competence in the area of air traffic control. It would separate the provision of air navigation services from the civil aviation regulatory area, which is therefore in line with relevant international regulations. BiH would participate on an equal footing in regional integration, obtaining greater benefits, both in technical capacity and in the development of highly specialized human resources. BiH would collect full revenues from flight control, two-thirds of which are currently leaving neighbouring countries, Serbia and Croatia, and these revenues are estimated, so, when BiH's entire system is established, to some 30 million KM annually. Furthermore, the budget allocations of BiH and its entities currently amounting to around 10.5m marks would become unnecessary, as the system would therefore become self-sustainable from its own revenues. In addition to retaining existing BHDC employees, so State Directorate and Entity Directorates, about 100 new employees of highly qualified workers in very attractive positions and occupations would be engaged and for the first time a domestic human resource base would be created in this highly demanding area. So, for all of this, it would be necessary to adopt these laws, to establish these new institutions, that is the Directorate of Civil Aviation BHDC, whose headquarters is the Council of Ministers and ATM strategy to be established in Banja Luka, and the Chief Office of the Air Navigation Agency in Mostar. This agency, of course, next to the main office in Mostar, would have its other parts. These are primarily operational and technical services that would be located, so to speak divided, partly in Banja Luka, partly in Mostar, partly in locations, so where it is needed, such as Jahorina, Play's Summit, etc. So there'd be two district control centers. Center 1 in Sarajevo, Center 2 in Banja Luka. There would be also an approach... control in four centres in BiH, Mostar, Tuzla, Sarajevo and Banja Luka. Therefore, we would thus round up the entire air traffic management system in BiH, including operational, or operational control, which is currently largely, in the jurisdiction of neighbouring countries, relieving budget fees and generating new revenues in BiH. That's why I think these laws, this set of laws deserve to be supported. Thank you very much. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22258	I thank the Honorable Minister Ljubić. Before we open the debate, I'll just have a few brief notes as to how we agreed to unite the debate and point 8, and this is about: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the provision of air navigation services to BiH (first reading) 12.11.2008 The Council of Ministers delivered the bill from this point. It is also considered in regular procedure. In 1.12.2008, the Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional legal basis, on compliance with the Constitution and the legal system. The responsible Committee for Transport and Communications delivered its opinion on the principles of the bill on 27.11. The Commission unanimously supported the principles of the proposed law. Here, we also heard the opening remarks of the distinguished Minister Ljubić. I'm opening the debate now. First reported is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković, and let the distinguished representative Martin Raguž be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22260	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, as far as the SDS Club is concerned, several objections to the principles on which these laws rest. And we will make these remarks through the amendments in this second phase, in the amendment phase. In addition to the dilemma whether everything is done in accordance with the powers that both the state and the entities have, there are some operational issues that, in our opinion, are not clear enough or not, so it can create some misunderstandings, especially when it comes to the proposal for a law on the Agency for the provision of services in the air navigation of BiH, where the position of the Agency's Board and members of the Council is not sufficiently clear to me. In fact, it is defined here that members of the Council are practically delegates of individual institutions, i.e. ministries. And then, after that, it was defined that they have for their work the cost of official travel,... leaving the dilemma whether they are, as delegates, employed by these ministries or not employed by those ministries. In fact, whether it is about proposals that must be employed by these ministries or whether they are proposals from members of the Council that are professional in this area, which are not, they do not have to be employees of the ministry. So there remains the dilemma, as remains at the end and several dilemmas tied to both the administration itself and the way the Council of Ministers chooses... management, director and deputies in a way that has practically two circles. The Agency's advice once suggests, so the Council of Ministers refuses, they suggest a second time for the same people from the same competition, so they refuse again, then they re-examination... the competition. 78 We think it's a little overcomplicated and unnecessary, given the way the Council... forms here. And if he's from the delegates, then it's practically a majority that exists, so also in the Council of Ministers and in this agency, and we find unnecessary means of some kind of two circles, so re-scheduling competitions uncivil in relation to how they form. Of course, everything changes if we get an explanation from the minister that it's not about employees in these institutions, but that it's only about proposals from these institutions. Besides this, we have some other objections, but I wouldn't... I don't think we're tired enough today. We will certainly have a lot of amendments to these proposals in the amendment phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22261	Thank you. The next is the second vice-president, Dr. Milorad Živković. Mr. Raguž signaled that he wasn't reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22262	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I want to say that these two laws are needed by BiH. I think it's been a little more time than usual since the Council of Ministers adopted, so until it came to us here in the Parliamentary Assembly and it seems to me that it leaves one small reserve in unreserved support for these two draft laws. And I want to say here that our support regarding these laws will have a certain holdover until the conclusions reached in the Council of Ministers are respected, which is that the proposal for accommodation of the Civil Aviation Directorate in Banja Luka and the Regional Centre in Sarajevo and Mostar, and the Agency for the provision of air navigation services in Mostar and the same delivery to the Council of Ministers for adoption. I suppose that's why this period of 29.9.2008, so far has been spent on making this accommodation proposal. I'd like to hear from the minister that it's over or that he should come to the Council of Ministers for adoption. Another issue concerns providing funds in the BiH Budget for the accommodation of these centres. I would like to know if these funds are provided in the budget or whether they are in the reserve position and whether they will be able to implement this in the budget in 2008 which is a legal obligation in relation to accommodations. And of course, because of what the minister was saying, and about these laws, I'm curious who is currently controlling the sky above BiH? To whom does EUROCONTROL, i.e. the European Aviation Cost Agency, pay the funds received from the airline? And if this, as you said, is being paid to Croatia and Serbia, in which and in what way this agreement was made, and here is to say whether there is a possibility that after these adoptions from next year, BiH will receive all these funds from EUROCONTROL. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22263	I thank my esteemed colleague, Živković. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Branko Dokić. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, at the very beginning, I want to congratulate Minister Ljubić on the fact that BiH today, I hope, has been admitted to the last association... but the last international association in which other organisations have not been. This is a nice completion of a five- or six-year process, which has been very successful. I hope that we will also support these laws that will create a presumption of... a lot of implementation, not to say implementation, of a control strategy in the field of civil aviation. So, this is the one, how do I say, one of the key steps that needs to create assumptions that the strategy is fully implemented, and that means that BiH can be trained at the end of next year in every respect, and technically, because the technical part is the phase of realisation, in human beings, because the staffing part, i.e. personnel training, is in progress and should be completed, as far as I know, next year. So this is the legal framework. I am absolutely in agreement with this, as I say, certain reserves, which my colleague Živković has just made, but I think that's the thing that's going to go and that's going to be over by the second reading of this law. Indeed, everything needs to be done in institutions that are competent to then implement these laws and to implement them very quickly, and this implementation means the formation of these two centres. I would also like to say that by considering the Commission of these laws that we supported in our first reading – of course there can always be improvements and that we will do so through amendments in this context as well – but that we asked the Ministry and the Civil Aviation Directorate to deliver to the Commission the reports of the latest audits made at international level, EUROCONTROL, which, to inform you only very, very positive, with the emphasis that they are best in the whole region, so we said: give the Commission something that is good and positive that we do not always have problems. Here, I have done this in some way and I have promoted the law, and the answer to these questions from Zivkovic will be given by the minister, even though I know these answers, but by adopting these laws, we will create an assumption that we are doing a full job in this area in BiH and that we are making revenue from that job that we are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22265	As there are no more reported at this time, I would ask the Honorable Minister to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22266	So I thank the MPs for the debate and expect amendments that could fix these laws. Now answer. First, the answer to the question of Deputy Chairman, Mr. Živković: "Why was the adoption of the Council of Ministers pending to this day?" Believe me, there was no last intention, simply the process of lecturing these laws and professional processing went from the Council of Ministers to the Civil Aviation Directorate, from the Civil Aviation Directorate to the Council of 80 ministers. It may be there, to say the least, some week spent more than it was necessary, but there was no other intention. As far as the question is concerned, "Who pays Serbia and Croatia?" In fact, no one pays them. So, they charge themselves directly for what they provide, but it doesn't come to us, and otherwise it would come to us, except for the accesses, or airport controls carried out at airports in Mostar, Banja Luka, Sarajevo and Tuzla. And right now, these funds that, I say, go to Serbia and Croatia are at about 20 million KM annually. So that is, of course, all the funds that, I say, order the size of 30 million KM when this entire system is installed... will remain in BiH. The following question was, therefore, 'Is the programme of the accommodation of these institutions made up?' You see, so the condition that we could go into the realisation of these jobs is the adoption of these laws, because if these laws won't be passed, then, let me put it this way, there's no need for these institutions. Although they are planned and I just think, as MP Dokić said, that these jobs will now go simultaneously, because at a meeting in my office about a month and a half ago, if I'm wrong, there is Deputy Director of Civil Aviation Mr. Šimunović, we agreed to until 15.11. The Civil Aviation Directorate delivers, as I say, a transparent systematization of these two institutions so that we can plan the space needed for both of them and for the other and enter into the process of ensuring budgetary resources for their implementation in the following year. Here, this job is about to end, I just got from the Civil Aviation Directorate today that proposal, so to speak, transparent systematicization, because the permanence cannot be done until all of this is adopted together and we certainly won't wait any longer than necessary. As for the technical work that has been done, which is ongoing, believe me, big jobs have been done, important jobs are still ahead of us. On the basis of the contract, i.e. the loan provided by the EBRD of 12m euros plus 6m euros, full equipment was purchased for district flight control centres in Sarajevo and Banja Luka, a simulator in Mostar, which is already in front of the flight controller's installation. For the preparation of construction works for radar stations, etc. – and this job is under way, ie practicalally completed and training of flight controllers. And it is very important for us to adopt these laws as soon as possible, because these flight controllers won't be able to wait long, because there is a great demand for these people on the market in the region, in Europe. So if we're not able to hire them into institutions, then I'm afraid we'll lose them. And we paid the funds for... their training. And finally, I thank Representative Dokić for his congratulations, and I must also congratulate him, because many of the things that we have come here today and the fact that today, perhaps in this area of civil aviation, we have gone to BiH for the longest time in our integration into Europe, so at the level of standards and at the level of institutions, we should largely thank and thank the ministry's work while he ran that ministry. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22267	I thank the Honorable Minister Ljubić. I have a registered distinguished representative, Azra Hadžiahmetović. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22268	I apologize in advance for failing to answer a part of my colleague Živković's question. But here, let me, given the circumstances, I know the situation, to answer you, Mr. Živković. In time, when it was transferred from SFOR to the domestic authorities for the 'uper' layer, or third layer, I apologize if I did not use the Civil Aviation Dictionary, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the resolution ministry to which it was addressed was counterpart Spasoje Tuševljak, and the Civil Aviation administrator was Mrs Fatima Leho. If I was wrong by accident, I ask those who are a little longer in civil aviation to correct me. The Council of Ministers therefore co-ordinated the activities of transfer of competences from EUFOR, i.e. then SFOR, to local authorities. Secondly, on this point, I wanted to propose, firstly, to the rest of the ministry, or to the competent institutions in the field of civil aviation, that, given that Parliamentarians have received several letters from one of your colleagues, who are in office, and not just parliamentarians, I want to mention to the Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations, etc., I will not talk here about the content, but I appreciate particularly important that by these letters, which have been sent to different addresses with qualifications of a particular kind, you are reading with civil aviation arguments. So there's really a need for me to say that, because there's also been some qualifications in letters that can cause different interpretations and adventurous travels of the spirit. And secondly, along with all the congratulations, both the Resort Ministry and the Council of Ministers, i.e. all those who coordinated these activities, on the success achieved in the full integration of BiH into institutions, international civil aviation institutions, I also wanted to propose to this Parliament that, given the importance of these laws and of, I appreciate, a small possibility of making some major changes in all of this, we are doing a second reading today. We're already in discussion, discussing, long gone from the principle of law. We have entered deep into the content, I propose that this Parliament be declared in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22269	I thank the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović. There are no more reports, and we now have a proposal for respected MPs to immediately open the debate on the laws and in the second reading. I am sorry, Your Honor, but it will not be possible, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm closing the debate on points seven and eight. Moving to point nine: 82 Ad. Nine. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Public TV System of BiH (first reading) In 20.11.2008 the Council of Ministers sent Parliament a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Public TV System of BiH. It's being considered in regular procedure. In its opinion of 1.12.2008, the Constitutional Commission established a valid constitutional basis, in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The Committee for Transport and Communications is responsible. We received the opinion of the committee responsible in 27.11.2008. The commission unanimously accepted the principles of the proposed law. The House Committee proposes that the proposal for a law be considered in the second reading without considering it in the second phase, in accordance with Article 106(4) of the Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. Dear Minister Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22271	So, ladies and gentlemen, the argument will be as brief as this law is. The Association of Blind Citizens of BiH as a roof blind organisation in BiH has launched an initiative to implement a decree that exempts blind people from the obligation to pay a TV fee in the framework of amending and supplementing the Law on the Public TV System of BiH. I don't think the essence needs to be explained, I just want to say that in all the countries of the region, the blind persons are freed from the obligation to pay a TV fee, either by law, by sublaw, by public broadcaster or by an appropriate decision. For example, in Serbia, blind persons are freed from the payment of the TV tax by law, so the Law on Broadcasting... In Croatia, the blind persons are freed from the payment of tv charges by the Public TV Broadcaster Regulation, i.e. HRT. The Council of Ministers decided, after meeting the chairman with this association, to do so by law. And there's this law before you that has two members. I pray, therefore, for this population of people, that it is as minimal as we can do for them, that we free them from the payments of tv subscriptions, or families that have at least one person who has been declared by the competent institution blind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22272	I thank the Honorable Minister Ljubić. Dear Representative Mirko Okolić has applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22273	Mr. Chairman, as for the release of this category of payment, I fully agree with other categories of which I will later say, but it seems to me this way is not good and I will explain it to the next one. Here, we also have the opinion of the board of directors of the TV that deals with this problem, which we should appreciate, we'll probably come to that after this argument. Namely, it's about the next one. It is said here that, just a little bit, here is the way: 83 'that the Law on the Public TV System which obliges the payment of a TV fee is released by all households owners of a host whose at least one household member has lost sight'. I ask the question, "What about household members or individuals who have lost their hearing?" Is this where you pay taxes on the possession of radios and TV receivers? So, it's not even an inability to listen or not listen, it's not an inability to watch or not watch, because on several occasions we talked about it, and we didn't respect the complaints of people who claimed that in their area you couldn't watch this and that television and that's why they shouldn't pay a fee, because the law said it was a radio and television receiver. Here we will now come to the derrogation of this law, if this is how we try to free the blind. And of course we're going to leave out deaf, which I think is a pandan for one another, because if someone who's lost their hearing has only a radio receiver and, then what's the point of having television, if they've lost their hearing, there's still no full purpose as well as one who's blind has no full purpose for television, and it has a purpose for a radio camera. Furthermore, I think this is the way we're going to violate the principles of this law, because it's about possession, not listening or watching. And that's why I'm proposing next. That this may, in some other way, be resolved or resolved precisely by what Mr. Minister has said, in certain regulations, that these categories of blind people, including categories that have lost sight: or return funds to which they pay their subscriptions or to be paid by the state, means competent ministries, better said, by the state that refunds it or that the state pays it on behalf of them. So we wouldn't go into conflict with this law, we wouldn't violate the principles of this request, and we would achieve what we wanted, or what the Council of Ministers here wanted and what was in the environment: to protect this category that lost sight and hearing. That would be a better way for me. These categories don't have much, it's not a big item for the state, and TV is a state, or television that's largely, through more citizens' funds, financing, so it seems to me that it would be better to find a satisfactory solution for these categories that have lost their sight, I add and hear, that they, in the end, will end up being regulated by the regulation, not having to pay a tax or that tax being refunded with their social aid or some other kind of help they get. And that's what I'd do with lower acts, so sublegal acts and not touching this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22274	I thank the esteemed representative of Okolić. No more reports. He has a respected representative, Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22275	Chairman, if you'll excuse me, I'd like something on behalf of the Commission that's been considering this. We unanimously supported this by handling the purely humanitarian reasons. There have been different opinions on the Commission, and there have been different opinions on this proposal to go to phase two immediately, so to another reading. Probably that proposal, I have to be honest with you to the end, is my feeling that this proposal would not have been accepted if it were going to the second stage right now if we had this letter that came from the board of directors. Because it was with some members of the reserve Commission that you go immediately to this stage. Well, it seems to me that Okolić's discussion is on that background that maybe we should leave some space and let this spread. So here, when 84 we decide whether to go to phase two or not, we have these elements in mind. So, once again, the Commission, acting solely on humanitarian reasons, supported the proposal of the Council of Ministers, aware of the fact that one precedent that is not in accordance with the law, is immediately understood, but well, we are so that we can, we can change this law, we can create another, here is the Okolić proposed and that this can be further expanded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22276	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on fiscal cash registers – Proposer: Representative Jozo Križanović (first reading) Dear Representative Jozo Križanović, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, delivered the draft fiscal cash registers in the procedure of the Proposal Law on 17 September 2008. It is considered in a regular procedure. In 6.10.1908, the Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the existence of a valid constitutional basis and that the draft law complies with the Constitution and the legal system. On two occasions, the commission requested an extension of the time limit for submission of the opinion pending a statement by the Council of Ministers on the bill's proposal. We received the opinion of the Finance and Budget Committee in 28.11.2008. In its opinion, the Committee states that the Council of Ministers did not deliver an opinion within a certain period of time, so the Commission decided to consider the proposal for a law in the first phase. You have seen, the Commission has accepted the principles of the proposed law and referred it to the House in a further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. I don't have any charges to argue with. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 11th point, Ad. 11. Review of the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission on a held information session on the problem of organised crime and corruption, with the proposal for a conclusion, and: (a) Analysis of the level of implementation of the BiH Strategy for the fight against organised crime and corruption – applicant of the material: Ministry of Security of BiH, 85 b) Reports, Opinions and conclusions on corruption and organised crime issues – applicant: BiH Ministry of Justice
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22279	I thank you, Mr. President. Greetings to all MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers. Here, in agreement with the members of the Constitutional Commission, as vice-president, the absent Mr. Džaferović, I will just say briefly that the debate was under way and that they were the main objectives of the debate organised by the Constitutional Commission. 86 is essentially two things. The first is that, despite the assessment given by the Ministry of Justice, or the Ministry of Security, BiH has achieved and rounded up a complete legislative framework to fight corruption in terms of the norm. BiH, I would say, is rapidly sinking on a scale of negative perce before corruption, so we're back a few years from being 80 and burning someone on a table and somewhere in the world, and it's really alarming. The second thing, the strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers in 2006 expires in 2009, and this is the time now and we wonder how to cover the space after the deadline of that strategy and of course there is no and no justification that there is any vacuum in that sense. And our initiative has yielded fruit, and we have really had one good debate, competent exhibitions and the elaborateness of justice and security ministers and the presence of the media, and I do not think it is possible to enter into a more serious fight against corruption in all transition countries, where the most pronounced degree of corruption is, without Parliament's role at all. The second thing, here are to make clear the Commission's conclusions, the 12 of them. I would just like to read conclusion number 6. Where 'The Constitutional Commission is expressing dissatisfaction with the current stage of implementation of the Strategy'. And I particularly stress, given that the BiH Council of Ministers has not formed a co-ordination body, "the commission requires that a co-ordination body be established within 30 days to monitor the implementation of the existing strategy." This is a very important conclusion and I think that the House of Representatives should support and adopt these conclusions and further make the Council of Ministers responsible and continue and adopt a new strategy and implementation and establish the necessary bodies, co-ordination bodies so that this process can be managed responsibly and seriously. But when you take some grades here from these analyses that the departments have given, we really need to be concerned. I will illustrate it only here with the assessment that it is a state of corruption, so it is not only in the field of public procurement and competitions, as they often say, but also in everything else. Unfortunately, it penetrates the area of education, primary education, higher education, police protection, customs, because... in these institutions they multiply public charges of corruption. The question is whether it remains only on... still it remains mostly on charges only, because the question of how many we have proven acts, but it is certain that this perception should be changed. So here's the big deal. If we want to create an atmosphere that BiH can also be a society of legal order in which we will be able to live normally... and develop according to the knowledge and criteria system and hire and everything else and progress in business and in some way to change that perception in order to make serious capital and investment, rather than..., we know what kind of origin, which is mostly recently in some way in an ambition to fit these premises and, behold, I propose that we adopt these conclusions of the Constitutional Commission and that Parliament, in some way, opens its role in this process. I must say, there is also the chairman of the section GOPAK, Mr Suljkanović, through this section of GOPAK, we have also institutionalised activities that have become part of the practice in countries and environments and in the world and, in some ways, Parliament assumes its share of responsibility in this business. Thank you. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22280	I thank the esteemed representative Raguž. Next is Honorable Representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22281	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, of course I will immediately say that I will personally support what Mr. Raguž said, but I will never know who makes these rankings. So once in 50, 70 and 101, I don't know either, and based on what indicators, based on what? Who proved corruption in any organ? We hear it in some college, there's something at university, they're not processed, students aren't allowed to report that they wouldn't lose a year, these teachers say it's not true, this one says it. First I said here it was a kind word of corruption, corruption. Well, every nana and grandma understands me when I say thief, criminal, mob, I don't know who. But I declare it without any evidence. Who are the thieves, who are the mob? I guess the court needs to prove it, the D.A.'s office. And when I mention them today as the weakest link in the chain of total prevention, there is pressure on the independent judiciary, on the successful reform of the judicial system. First of all, who came up with this on a successful basis? I'm thinking of a complete failure! I can't really participate in this story, but here I will support it from the best intentions, just so we have something, so when the EU gets to Brussels and Oli Ren says -- you see that they're fighting -- and he has no idea what we're discussing or interested in, but he'll get some files from here, and he'll join in saying -- eh, you've met that condition, and you have another 106 conditions to get you a little closer to the EU. Sometimes I really wonder why I'm an MP. And it is not surprising that I asked Mr. Lozančić, whom I respect first as a human being, he will not be a messenger forever like I, when he tells me, a honourable representative, and I know that I am humiliated by all. What a humbled one! I said yes down there today, and I have to tell you, it's corruption: there are hundreds of people with disabilities and some of our smart-ass put up a tape, not to get people to drink coffee. That's our first floor. It's corruption, it's the humiliation of our people who can barely survive. That's us, and that's why I don't know, really, to explain to me, here's what I don't know, who proved where corruption is, who it is, where 101's from. I guess that 101's fine with us. It'd be better if it were 99, something would be nicer, so we'd sneak in, say, here we are, not over 100. I really don't know what we're doing with this. Who are, I repeat, let them answer me. Our institutions, which I support, who proved corruption, in which extent, and that we are behind Albania, say, when I don't know what's there, I don't know what's here, not what's there. Now, this is how we're going to spin this circle countless times. We'll always get a good strategy that won't solve anything. Fortunately, there's no camera to say -- this people and citizens, see, they remembered they were fighting the thieves, and first a lot of them would have to fight themselves -- because whatever they said here and brought into the interest of the people, they would say -- there are all thieves. When we're gonna take care of it, and when someone here comes out with the exact data and tells me there's corruption in court, there's someone, there's a palace, there's luck in the palace, but we don't have a court, we don't have a court of law, come on, I'll make something else up, in any place, who's gonna prove it to me? Where's the exact data? But blow off some number, 101st place, us about the misery of fun, us corrupt country. 88 And those who make these lists are making us the biggest accidents, because they're lobbying for other countries right now, and they're preventing potential investors from coming here to invest their money. They're distracting them. Those who launch those stories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22282	Ambassador Bećirović. May I have your attention, please? Was it a replica, Jozo?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22283	Okay, here we are also looking at the report of the Constitutional Commission and the Analysis on the level of implementation of the Strategy for the fight against organised crime and corruption, although in those first agendas that were delivered to us Members, it was actually the central issue of this Analysis on the level of implementation of the Strategy. At first, I'd like to say a few grades. The first, most of the targets outlined in the BiH Strategy for the fight against organised crime and corruption, the vast majority, has not been realised at all. And that's the first worrying grade nobody's denying. Secondly, and what little has been done in the Strategy, for the period 2006-2009, so this current Council of Ministers had, most of its mandate, the opportunity to do something, but was done under pressure from the international community, rather than the goodwill of the Council of Ministers and other authorities in this country. Third, it can be freely found that the BiH state is not an equal partner in the global fight against crime, terrorism and crime. Fourth, the government did not even form a monitoring and surveillance body, leading to an inadequate approach to the implementation of this strategy. Here, you see, and nobody's hiding it, that's what the people of the Constitutional Commission said now, we fell from, I think, 86th place under 100th place and that table, colleague Jovičić, probably people don't make an eye, but they have certain indicators for all countries of the world and for BiH. In any case, that table as well as these forward facts are more than enough reason for the alarm and alarm in this country. And today, when we discussed the mistrust of the BiH Council of Ministers, one of the two most large reasons, in my opinion, why it was due to vote, or not yet voted, the mistrust of the Council of Ministers is precisely this complete collapse in the fight against corruption in this country. Since the agenda point is to look at these findings of the Constitutional Commission that have been delivered to us by the MPs, unlike the predecessors, I must say that I absolutely disagree with the good part of these conclusions. First, the conclusion 1 highlights the seriousness of the situation, etc., and in fact I think the conclusion 1. The constitutional commissions should say that we as Parliament strongly condemn the non-implementation of the BiH Strategy. Even this strategy, according to the assessment of all the serious and 89 NGOs dealing with this problem, is incomplete, inadequate, etc., but it was not possible to implement it either! The second formulation of the Constitutional Legal Commission is "to take note of these documents and to support the proposal for recommendations and conclusions". I don't think this should be supported, and I'll tell you later why it shouldn't be supported. The third conclusion is that there are some results here and there, etc. It is here to officially conclude that there are no results. It's very little done, and I'm going to say specifically, how little it's done and how little it's done, and there's not much done, so this conclusion of the Constitutional Commission is just easing something that's impossible to mitigate as an official evaluation. 'We need', in conclusion 5, 'action plans'. Who could have made what action plan without a strategy for a certain period? I guess the strategy creates action plans, not action plans. The Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The Commission expresses its dissatisfaction with the implementation of the Strategy so far. Look what a mild formulation that is. What a level of implementation so far! This strategy is not two-thirds and more than implemented. "All obligations" etc. in the conclusion of the 7th Committees "have to be fully accepted and implemented". Well, we first have to tell you what we're going to do with the fact that none of this is done. It is very clear here that BiH has a strategy to fight organised crime and corruption from 2006 to 2009. So in less than a month, on January 1st 2009, the BiH state remains without any strategy to fight organised crime and corruption. Congratulations to the BiH Council of Ministers! Why was the state brought into this state? We had no strategy at Parliament, and here it is mentioned, is the 2009-2012 strategy. Parliament has not been consulted by any strategy of this type, so we are free to say that as a state, we have been brought into such a situation that in a month we do not even have a strategy. And the fact that we're falling on a ladder, etc., that's an additional question now. Why don't we have a strategy? Does anyone think that's not the problem, that there's no corruption? Is that someone not interested? Is someone really not going to fight it, it's now a question of a special answer. I must remind here, when this point is on the agenda, that in February of this year I proposed to Parliament an initiative that the Council of Ministers, within three months, draw up a 'Strategy for the fight against organised crime and corruption'. And they were supposed to conclude, unanimously adopted at the House of Representatives by May, to deliver such a strategy to us. It's December 3rd! For over six months, they have not been able, not to honour some conclusion from the opposition, but to honour the entire parliament's conclusion. We've all unanimously accepted that. How is it possible that the Council of Ministers, and in this big issue, will not implement the conclusion of the BiH Parliament, even when adopted unanimously. Whether it has no co-operation between Parliament's leadership and the Council of Ministers or the Council of Ministers does not worry at all what Parliament brings and what they should do on the basis of it, it is now a matter for themselves. When it comes to this degree of realization, I have gone so far as to analyse the degree of implementation of the Strategy and in detail that I must now really support this with the following arguments. In this strategy since 2006-2009, eight general objectives have been set to fight organised crime and corruption. In the chapter 'Special Goals of the Anti-90 Organized Crime Strategy', 18 strategic objectives were set in the chapter 'Special Goals for Combating Corruption', so we distinguish the term organised crime and corruption, 18 more strategic objectives. In total, 44 strategic goals have been set in this strategy, which stands out in a month. And now, fellow MPs and others present, of course we are interested in how much of it has been realized in these three years. Here, I'll tell you now, calculatedly, so in percentages: out of 44 targets 97.7% is not realised from that strategy. How? In part, 36 is realised in this strategy, which is 81.81%, and nothing, so absolutely nothing 15.90%. And these, dear ministers, who comment from the site, are the data that has been delivered to us by your ministry and your analysis, and we have received it here as MPs and perhaps some of us have studied it so closely to you, here, we publish the data – 97.7%. It's just, of the 44 strategic goals, one goal is realised, that in this implementation it stands here -- a single goal realized, and 43 are not realised properly at all. And not to get into what's not being realized right now, but it's really frantic that only the Ministry of Security has said that, not partly, it's not fully realised that the goal of developing a scientific research into organised crime and providing support to institutions, which is really, in itself, shocking that this goal where we should give support to institutions that are fighting organised crime and corruption is that we, or that the Ministry says that nothing has been done on that plan. Not partly, but nothing – the goal of raising awareness of civil society, etc., education of public opinion – nothing has been done in part already! It is in this analysis delivered to us by the Minister and the Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers. International co-operation, meeting international obligations – nothing has been done in part! The alignment of Bosnian-Herzegovina legislation with international-legal instruments – and it says that this goal is not realised! So, what do we have to talk about here? I am not going to talk about it any further, except I want to look back at the end and this proposal for a conclusion for the BiH Council of Ministers. The first conclusion here in this analysis says, "The information is accepted, with a grade analysis." I think that, firstly, as Parliament, we should, at the very least, express a deep dissatisfaction with the situation in this area, and especially with this drastic degree of unrealisation of the 2006-2009 Strategy, because the question is, what should be our new strategy if we document here that 97% of the objectives in this strategy are not realised. The second objective is to "prepare a new strategic document". Well, there's nothing to prepare for a new strategic document, gentlemen at the Council of Ministers. This House unanimously obliged you in February 2008 to deliver us such a strategy by May, and you didn't do it! Third target? It is mentioned again that this task is to develop a strategy to fight corruption, and the task defined, the deadline exists, the task exists, there is a business carrier. So, the fourth target? They commit themselves, according to the agencies – this is especially both tragic and comical – to meet the maximum required obligations in this month, to meet those 97% that are not realised in this analysis. This is such a document that really, if you go into this detail and you read what has been delivered to us in detail by the Ministry of Security in this analysis of realisation, you will come to a series of conclusions, so the least we can do about this is that at 5.15, and we said that we will work until 6.00, that we will try to do a special session on this issue where we would talk about these things, because this question, and we see what is constantly being published in the media, is not this issue of any MP, any political party, this is a very important issue for every citizen and for this country, and therefore we need to give him special attention, and in no way to escape or otherwise interpret what is already in this analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22284	I thank you, too. However, respected Minister Sadović felt the need to give specific clarifications, so here he came and we'll give him our word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22285	Honorable chairman, respected deputies, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, allow me that if I can for a little longer than 10 minutes because the matter is indeed great, and to say something about this significant area.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22286	I'll still ask you to try it in 10 minutes, and I remind you of the name of the agenda point. Look at a little bit of what's called the agenda point. So we, here we go again, so the College has tried to open the process of informative hearings in Parliament of competent... state ministries in certain areas. We're discussing this today, so the report of our commission that did this job, so it's, and it's proposing certain conclusions, so that we don't, we don't take care, we want to do it today, we need to make the right decisions. Here, that's it, so you, Minister, try it that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22287	Well, here I am really going to try especially to expose an esteemed colleague who didn't seem to be dealing with certain facts. I wish he was or someone from his party at the debate on the parliamentary committee, where we had been discussing all these elements for nearly three hours in detail. So, the BiH Strategy for the fight against organised crime and corruption was adopted in 15.6.2006 for the period 2006-2009. Therefore, if you are taking a three-year period, then it is the sixth month of 2009: if you are taking a year, then 2009 also counts. So there's no talking about another month. So the document is generally made up as a reflection of the need for BiH to start more effectively dealing with organised crime and corruption. The strategy defines risks, risk factors, combat principles, general and individual objectives, measures and deadlines, as well as those responsible for preventing and combating organised crime. I'm not going to tell you who had this huge material, and believe me, there's more, I could have delivered you that much more material. He could therefore understand that they are being introduced into all the complexity of the matter they're talking about. 92 What should be said is that due to the complexity of the administrative structure in BiH, 26 different institutions and agencies have been involved in the implementation of this strategy from all levels of government, and some of these institutions and agencies have never taken any action and have not even been involved, nor have they even provided information on the results achieved in the implementation of that strategy. It is also important to say that BiH's progress on the European path is linked to meeting the obligations and conditions set out in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the European Partnership and Roadmap document for visa liberalisation and concern the area of justice, freedom and security. Here, I'm not going to read you the definitions of organized crime and corruption, although it would be very important for people to know them. Generally, the Strategy defined 15 forms of organised crime dealing with all police agencies, from cantonal, entity to state level. It's a very important fact that you have to deal with when grades are given. Also, as far as corruption is concerned, it is therefore defined in BiH's Criminal Law in two chapters. There are 24 crimes that can be committed under the terms of corruption. You have 32 crimes in the Federation of BiH's Criminal Law. In Criminal Law of RS 34, in the Criminal Law of the Brcko District you have 33 crimes. So only from this fact can you see how complex this is and how unequivocally it can't be viewed. As far as the general objectives of the Strategy for the fight against organised crime and corruption are concerned, I really don't know how my colleague pulled that figure on the realization of 97%. That may be some simple math you can come up with, but I don't think math is good for you. As for the activities envisaged for the general objectives, I can say that we have made great progress in the area of international co-operation by signing a large number of agreements on police co-operation between BiH and the countries of the region. Also, BiH actively participates in programmes and activities of more international organisations aimed at fighting organised crime and corruption, such as SEKI, EUROPOL, INTERPOL, EUROJUST, regional initiatives etc. So any of these areas could be talked about, believe me, an hour or more. There has been some progress in strengthening BiH institutions, so at all levels, to fight organised crime but I agree with my colleagues that it is not enough, but it should be realistic and indeed recognise that our agencies' capacities have been increased. BiH has signed and ratified most of the international conventions that treat the area of fight against organised crime and corruption, and has incorporated them into domestic legal regulations. In collaboration with international organisations but also in the organisation of domestic institutions, very much has been done in education, professionalisation, modernisation and specialisation of human resources to combat organised crime and corruption. What is an objective flaw is insufficient interinstitutional co-operation in the fight against these evils but it is simply a consequence of our decentralised and complex police system, but also of the judicial and prosecutorial system. The difficulties in coordinating a large number of agencies, in large security systems, and the diversity of legal frameworks that define the competences of individual institutions are evident, so the consequences of non-cooperation and rivalry among individual agencies are present. So this is true that in terms of scientific research and organized 93 crime has not broken down too much, so to speak. We can give principle support, I don't know what kind of support we can give. So here I can publicly say that we support in that sense, but if someone expects the Justice Ministry or the Ministry of Security to be financially helpful, then we don't have such funds. As for the specific objectives, the specific objectives of combating organised crime, let me, in the shortest, indeed, list the following. Therefore, a legal framework has been provided for the effective application of specific investigative actions through the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH and, in accordance with this law, specific investigative actions can be determined for all acts for which a sentence of three years or more may be imposed. Whoever deals with this job knows what it means to use special investigative actions and techniques in this area, because actually fighting organised crime and corruption is impossible without using such techniques. It should be said that in the final phase, the introduction of a system for the legal interception of telecommunications, which we have implemented with the help of the European Commission, and which will be able to use by all police agencies and the Intelligence and Security Agency. So this is one very important thing as a tool to fight crime and corruption. So, the proposal for a law on witness protection is here in the parliamentary procedure. So, and it's one of the system laws that should help prove the crimes of organised crime and corruption, and we've been having a debate on the importance of this law. We have also achieved co-operation with witness protection units in the region to standardise the rules and procedures and specifically measures of the relocation of the protected witness. The co-operation of law enforcement agencies at international level has been improved. So we can document to you a large number of joint investigations and successful actions in the detection and processing of organised criminal groups. So this co-operation is particularly expressed with the neighbouring countries. Here, and a recent meeting of interior and security ministers here in Sarajevo showed the will and readiness of countries in the region... to co-operate in a joint fight against these evils. Also, the strategic objective of the 7th is to fight illegal trafficking in drugs and precursors. In this field we've realized a large number of activities and I quote some of them. So, within the Ministry, a Department for Combating Drug Abuse has been established, a Commission on Drugs has been established, and a working group has drawn up a draft state control strategy on intoxicating drugs. It will be on the Council of Ministers very soon and the Action Plan has been completed and will come to the Council of Ministers very soon. The Council of Ministers adopted a decision last year on the determination of border crossings at which imports and the transport of intoxicating drugs could be made. The number of border crossings has been reduced to 13, which makes up only 14% of the total number of crossings, and all these crossings are first categories and under video surveillance. And according to the Drug Act, licensing legal persons for importing or exporting... substances and intoxicating drugs is a precursor, has been raised to state level, so these permits are issued by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, of course, not to go further into the laboratory. So, police forces in BiH, all agencies, are taking part in regional action to cut off drug traffickers that lead partly through BiH. The equipment of the operational units was raised to a higher level, equipment sophisticated to detect hollows in motor vehicles, etc., bilateral contracts, would take us very far, to list. 94 I must tell you that the Ministry of Security, therefore related to further meeting strategic objectives, specific objectives, has referred to the Council of Ministers for Information on the situation in the field of information and telecommunications systems in the service of all police bodies in BiH, after which a task force should be formed to draft the law. And this is mentioned as a medium-term solution to progress in the area of police reform in a recent assessment of the Roadmap for visa liberalisation. The Council of Ministers established a working group that is in the final phase to amend the Money Laundering Act, draw up a strategy and action plan to fight money laundering. Also, on a proposal from the Ministry of Security, the Council of Ministers recently adopted a Strategy in the field of immigration and asylum, which was done with the assistance of the international community, and is heading the way towards an effective solution to the problem in the area of illegal immigration. The Strategy... Border Management and Action Plan has also been adopted, which means a significant rise in overall border security. We also predicted, therefore, the strategic objective of the 12th, the continuation of activities in the prevention of alienation and reselling of motor vehicles. An appropriate action plan has been adopted, and here is the result, among other things, of the measure, the percentage of the discovery of alien motor vehicles has risen to 90%, which is a significant success. The process of creating a unique database on stolen vehicles has been launched, so BiH's so-called accession. EUCARIS – The European Vehicle Information System and driver's license, not to tell you what was done in this regard in Interpol. It is true that certain objectives have not been implemented and it would be good to define together with the Parliamentary Assembly what needs to be done over the rest of the period. As regards the specific objectives of the fight against corruption, it should be said that improved international co-operation has been signed and ratified by the UN Convention against Corruption, so-called "Corruption". Merida. The procedure has been initiated, I think, in the final phase, accession to the Additional Protocol at the Criminal Convention on Corruption of the Council of Europe. These laws have been passed in the area of police reform, on the Police Body Coordination Directorate and Police Structure Support Agency. The draft law on legal aid was drawn up. A new Law on conflict of interest in BiH has been adopted and the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the financing of political parties in the parliamentary procedure. Also, funding political parties could also be an object, possibly a new law on preventing corruption. Changes to the Law on Public Procurement have been prepared, and the Council of Ministers adopted a Decision on the establishment of a Joint Public Procurement Commission for all ministries in certain areas and is due to start working since 1.1.2009. BiH passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, and in part of the Law on the application of special investigative techniques, the Law has been amended in a way that allows the use of special investigative techniques for all crimes for which a sentence of three years and more than three years can be imposed, this is very important to say. Also, there are certain unimplemented objectives here and it should be said that they have not been implemented. We are absolutely not running away, nor is the Minister of Justice, Mr. Čolak, nor am I, running away from any kind of responsibility, to understand ourselves, for non-implementation in those areas where we are in charge. But you have to understand how big this is and how much things don't really depend, a lot of things don't depend on us. What I consider a key problem is the unrealising or non-forming of this central anti-corruption body at BiH level. And I'm telling you openly that we're trying, and that's what Minister Čolak was trying to do in his last term, and I've been trying, here's more, I don't know, several times for sure, to adopt that body. Unfortunately, there was no 95 consent to form, although it is an obligation to form an anti-corruption body at the state level. The European Partnership document therefore provides for the UN Merida Convention against Corruption, the recommendations of GRECO, so the Association of States to Fight Corruption, the Council of Europe's Anti-Corruption Initiative, and, unfortunately, the Council of Ministers' Work Programme for 2008. Minister Čolak and I have proposed one such decision and, unfortunately, we haven't agreed on it one last time. When you ask me personally what I would like, I would like to have a Croatian Pocket here in BiH, that we have a body that will have investigative powers, but unfortunately,...it is not possible in our system and the current relationship of political forces. Then at least we're trying to make one body that would be involved in researching corruption in another way, records, prevention, etc. I must say that at the level of BiH there is, at the prosecution's office, Department II on the fight against organised crime, economic crime and corruption at which the stranger is headed, he is leading it. That there is an operational department in SIPA that deals and, of course, other police agencies and lower-level prosecutors. What I want to tell you in the end is that the Council of Ministers unanimously adopted this analysis of the implementation of the Strategy for the fight against organised crime and corruption at the last session. Here, to conclude, honourable MPs, MPs, at the session of the Parliamentary Joint Defence and Security Commission, where we participated, Mr. Čolak, and I have been led by a very open, constructive and, in my opinion, fruitful debate on the situation in these areas. Very good conclusions have also been made. They were brought unanimously and there were representatives of the position and opposition and we saw it as an excellent message to us who are working together with Parliament and the Council of Ministers and other institutions to make decisive steps in this area. I believe that we should support those conclusions from the parliamentary commission and continue working together to improve the situation in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22288	I thank the Honorable Minister. Replica, the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22289	I must say that Mr. Sadović is not easy, because he is in a position to defend something that is indefensible. And I must be, of course, correct and say that it would not be fair to say that only the Ministry of Security or the Ministry of Justice or these two ministers who are here are the only ones responsible for this situation. Even in his presentation, part two, the minister supported this all together with some facts that are even worse than what I was talking about before the minister was presented. And all together, we need to publicly say that this is a devastating state. And devastating both for the position and for the opposition and in this parliament, in this country. It's devastating for a position because it has mechanisms and instruments to keep this from happening the way it is, and the opposition is devastating because we are citizens of this country who live with this problem the way it is. 96 says the minister - we haven't handled the facts. Before that, Minister... as they consult with the Council of Ministers, I really want to speak to the Minister now in particular. Why, for six months now, here is the minister in this debate for a direct inquiry and no one from the Council of Ministers will finally say anything about the fact that we keep talking on committees, at sessions. Ministers, this Parliament unanimously adopted the Initiative and tasked you to deliver a strategy to us by May 2008, 'The strategy against organised crime and corruption for the post-2009 period'. A year. And you still don't want to tell me what's wrong with that. Have you not heard, have you not been informed or not, but finally let you tell Parliament what this is about!? This Ministerial dating strategy is particularly interesting in 2006. - 2009, so this interpretation that this 2009 account is due 6th month 2009. This is exactly what the 2006 Strategy says. – 2009 and should be done, as you have stated, a strategy since 2009. - 2012. How have you been interpreting this since June 2009, but not from January 1st? That's really not clear to me. You asked me directly, Mr. Minister, if it's possible for me to answer you directly now. You asked me directly how I pulled out this percentage of realization and got to this percentage of 97%? Here, I'm going to tell you very clearly and publicly now. I came from the database that you delivered to us in front of your ministry in this analysis, here in this analysis that I'm holding in my hand. So it's an analysis of the degree of implementation. In that analysis, I have analysed in detail, as you have stated, the measures envisaged, measures taken and below each of the 42 strategic objectives stands, Mr Minister, the following classification: either it has been partially implemented or not implemented, or the assessment stands: the strategic objective has been implemented. In your analysis of 44 strategic goals, only one goal at the end of your analysis finds that the strategic goal has been implemented, which I have only calculated in percentages...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22290	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22291	...and told you that 2.2% of the strategic objectives outlined were realised, according to the data you provided us. So it's not the data from Mars, it's the simple processing of the data that you delivered to us and that shows a completely devastating state. (?) No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22292	All right, all right. Dear Representative Martin Raguž, the replica, too, so we will.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22293	Well, well, you're constantly replicating, and here's what we can do about this data Mr. Bećirović put out, without any of us agreeing to any make-up. It's not good, it's not controversial. But it cannot be accepted, especially after what Minister Sadović presented and after seeing the documents that the situation is catastrophic and that nothing has been done. So let's not send this picture about ourselves after all we've heard about what's been done in creating an institutional framework and, well, don't do that, take Annex 1. (VEHICLES) In three years, 97 were covered by tracking and returning hard-wired vehicles to 80%. Don't be simple, take math measures that can't be measured by pure mathematics, because corruption is something that is permanent evil and which is a problem and which requires constant struggle and engagement. You can't say 99% did nothing. The fact is there's a report on the Committee's agenda, so I called in the replica. And I really think something has been done, because in this commission we have seriously and responsiblely for three hours we have accomplished your task, here is not Mr. Džaferović, who led the debate, the ministers came, the media came, we have offered conclusions, not presupposing that we will hold a session of anything, but we have launched Parliament. We said here that we are expressing dissatisfaction with the current level of implementation, which is a clear assessment. We said we were looking for 30 days to establish this body that Sadović said. Let's support something, let's do something.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22294	I thank the esteemed representative Raguž. ... Who's in favor of the replica? Dear MPs, here is Sokolović, then Prodanović, replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22295	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, the moment Mr. Raguž called, so did I, only you didn't see. And what Mr. Raguž said in his replica, here's something I'd like to say, I was going to say, but since I took the word I still want to say. I don't know what Mr. Bećirović read and whether we've all read this analysis of the degree of implementation. So I don't want to be a lawyer or a minister of security, or a minister of justice, they know how to do it themselves in their own defense. But if we take this analysis and we check it out, so it's extra, and we read it, you really can't mathematically throw out what Mr. Bećirović was talking about. Because this is going public, which is a matter that can drive the public into doubt, that the public really thinks that the fight against organised crime and corruption didn't start or start. Analyzing what Mr Bećirović said, we still have a few words to say about this issue. If you see common goals and you see strategic goals, here are all these strategic goals that have planned activities, they have taken action. And it means only a dead-end man or one who hasn't read won't know how to speak correctly in a way that out of some seven envisaged strategic goals, activities in Strategic Goal 1. So that can't be 3% or 2%, that's as much as here, if we're going to say this, math says. However, it is small, and so for all the strategic objectives listed here, exactly what are envisaged and what activities have been undertaken and whether they are partially or completely realised. Maybe it's small, here's Mr. Raguž here, confusion and due to a report by the commission itself that says in conclusion 10. - Co-operation with the competent institutions of countries in the region needs to be achieved. We have here, so the police co-operation agreements with the following countries have been signed, on page 5 of this analysis, so there are a number of states. So, I don't know, this is what I'm judging by how the Commission did, after all, analysis, draws these conclusions, though I'm standing behind it. Here's the minister himself said it's not exactly what we should have at this point. 98 But what does the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Justice intend to do? And you have that on one of these sides. The conclusions forwarded to the Council of Ministers, among other things, is a new strategy for the period 2009. – In 2012, where surely this part, which is not now realised or which will not be realised by the end of this strategy, would be installed. Therefore, it is not so black when it comes to the realisation of the strategy itself, perhaps the absence of certain bodies that were envisaged by this non-functioning strategy, what the minister was talking about earlier, did not produce on the ground the result as we wish. But that there is activity, that it wants to solve this problem and that it will be further solved – there is certainly the will of those who are responsible for it at this moment and that may be the real picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22296	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative of Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22297	... a replica of distinguished counterpart Bećirović, not with the intention of denying what is the fact, unfortunately, in BiH that we are in a very high negative place in the perception of corruption from the analyzed countries in the world, but the most typical way of misusing data from certain information, what Mr Bećirović is sending as a message to the media, does not slow the need for all institutions of government, all responsible institutions to lead the highest level of activity... in accordance with the law, in order to reduce the degree of corruption in BiH. How can it be said, based on some conclusion on the implementation of the three-year strategy, that it is 97.5%? What kind of scientific approach or analysis or statistics is that? What is the way of access to something to say -- you didn't do anything, I really appreciate that you launched this initiative in March, right now I have to tell you that you didn't say anything new, that Transparency in BiH, that other NGOs are constantly running this activity, that the media need to strongly support it! But please, Parliament's activity is not a session of this House. Parliament's greatest activity is commissions. We had an open session for the first time called, so in the form of a public hearing, that is, an informative session. I am pleased that the chairman of the Constitutional Legal Commission has come, which has invested enormous energy that this session is very high-quality preparation, you have had information on the Internet address in the activities of the weekly home of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, you could participate there and all the remarks, all the conclusions would be accepted. But I'll say only one thing that's significant, which applies to these verdicts, so the information of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, although it's not the case. So, 22 judicial rulings by the BiH Prosecutor's Office said, the Brcko District Office 13, Federation of BiH 418, RS 14, Trebinje 5, Doboj 74, East Sarajevo 58, Bijeljina 82, etc., do not list this. So it's not like that. If we send a message in the media that it's absolutely not true, it's not a good situation. She's a disaster. In particular, it should focus on abuse, corruption, organised crime when it comes to elected officials, official institutions, when political parties, or anything, but it is not so in BiH. And I'll tell you something. That corruption was much more intense when you were in power. Don't get me wrong. It was bigger, no matter what it was before, take 99 analyses, see the relevant statistics. This isn't good. We all have to put our heads together and do everything we can not to send a message that we support. But in the end, I'll just say, for me, for our club, for the SNSD, I wouldn't answer again: these conclusions are absolutely accepted. I am pleased that these conclusions on the Commission have been adopted unanimously. And I thank the ministries that have provided very detailed information. The Council of Ministers must do what they are obliged to do, but let's not send a message: we are a criminal society,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22298	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22299	...the only ones who don't participate in power, we're not criminals. We can't speak like that or send a message to this country. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22300	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22301	Thank you, Chairman. Dear members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, instead of some replicas I may have needed to use, I'll just say that it's worse than this situation with regard to corruption and crime, it's just a worse attempt to defend that situation, you know. And I think it would be very good if we didn't at least defend that condition. First of all, I would like to say that I highly appreciate the efforts of the Constitutional Commission, which has made an effort and made good preparations to discuss this problem of corruption and crime. However, I said right away, I would be very brief, the conclusions and the Commission, and these five conclusions of the Justice Ministry, let's be objective, are not conclusions. It's some kind of declaration. The usability of these conclusions is also very questionable and their particularisation. I can even accept that the state and the debate, etc., which was led there, I was not unfortunately, could not make something... or more concrete, except for the sixth conclusion I saw nothing concrete. Well, look what I was actually going to say. We can talk about the state and security here, we've had these discussions from the aspect of juvenile delinquency, so we've had domestic violence, so crime in auto theft, is, as it's called, etc., so we've had a security assessment, with a special reference to terrorism, and here we are today discussing in continuity, four months we treat, in a way, these topics. This debate in Parliament would have made sense, you know, if the Council of Ministers, since its strategy, had adopted the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Strategy, 100 and a half years ago, you know, and I don't see any Council of Ministers having discussed the state of corruption and crime, organised crime in BiH. And believe me, if you hadn't, you'd certainly have run out of time for this strategy if it hadn't been for this House's initiative and our Constitutional Commission. Please imagine, you bring this strategy – first of all, I will not talk about it, I promised – it is very general, without a carrier, without deadlines and never for two and a half years that body that adopted its strategy to discuss its realization. Not today. This is where we got the review of two ministries. If by any chance we had obtained this analysis of the implementation of this strategy, then, as Parliament as serious people, we would probably get their views here, the situation is such, the main problems and priorities are this, we lack legislation like that, we are weak institutions, we need personnel, we need financial resources, we need a political atmosphere to encourage all these institutions and individuals, etc. And then Parliament has some sense to do. This is how we're going to dump the conclusions of the new one, the conclusions of the ones that were normally to be delivered. In that sense, I will be free to suggest one conclusion that we – respecting all this debate and the materials that we had, the Strategy, etc., that it was not discussed – to oblige the Council of Ministers to carry out an analysis of the results of the BiH Strategy on the fight against corruption and organised crime and to deliver to this home a score of the situation, priorities, the necessary changes in legislation, the state of staff, the possible lack of financial resources. Let's say, now the budget is planned, let's see what we're going to adopt the budget on. We don't have any economic policies, we don't have any policy priorities in this country. We'll raise everyone 5-6%, keep going. Eh, and, well, we could do it in 60 days, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22302	I welcome the chairman of the Constitutional Commission who joined us. Here, I'm giving him a chance to join today's replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm really sorry to all of you for being in a situation where I just have to be away from the biggest part of today's session, practically from the entire session. Only one replica of my esteemed colleague Križanović who said the findings of the Constitutional Commission are not concrete enough, that he practically doesn't know what to do with them. From that material that we received as the Constitutional Commission and the debate we held, this is what we could offer Parliament at this time. And this is really unanimous in the Commission's session adopted. I'm standing up, so let me tell this to my colleague Joza, and let me say one thing, here to point to conclusion number three. My conclusion is from a full debate on the Commission, a review of the material, that 101 where there is a socially organised approach in the fight against corruption, there are results. Where there's no access, there's no results. That is the most important finding in this report to me. And for the illustration of this claim, I am part of the Department of Security's report on the degree of discovery of stolen cars, i.e. the struggle with automafia: in 2005, this level of discovery was 24%, 24.5% and 2007 almost 90%, 87%, some%. And then we saw that it was made by the Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers, an action plan to combat such a form of crime. Some more records were introduced, and then the result was three or four times better in 2007, so three or four times better than in previous years. This means that we need to make a socially organised approach in the fight against this phenomenon, and I think now, according to these conclusions, it is the Council of Ministers' move. It is incomprehensible that for political reasons or, I don't know, what reasons, for example, the coordination team has not been formed and that the Strategy has not been implemented, and the time is coming to create a new one. And I think that from all this we can draw the conclusion that the Council of Ministers as an institution, as a government, should do its part of the job and I am not running away from every smart conclusion that appears here at the session that we adopt it, because I guess it's in everyone's interest to fight it. In conclusion, the Commission has openly pointed out the problem of confiscation of unlawfully acquired benefits, i.e. illegally acquired assets. And we are looking for an expert analysis to see what BiH needs to be involved in BiH's legal system. We don't run away from it, so we want to fight it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22304	I would like to thank the honourable representative Džaferović. The following has been reported by distinguished envoy Hadzhi Jovan Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22305	Ladies and gentlemen, here, today at this session I think the second or third time confirms that our request that we have signed has arguments is very much to discuss. But here, when it comes to this document and this strategy that was adopted in 2006, whose implementation by 2009, is what can be praised and said there was success, what the predecessor said, that is, when it comes to car theft, motor vehicles, etc. Indeed, it has been done, but when it comes to other criminal activities, corruption, bribery, etc., it is essentially in part and nothing has been done. I don't think there's any excuse for such things, and there's no need to seek justification here in Parliament, it should be sought in a plan that should have been done by the Council of Ministers. I'm only going to look at some segments here like, say, a little bit I've been looking at, this contribution to convictions imposed on drug crimes. Here you can also see by the name and last name and place of the persons against whom the proceedings and penalties have been brought, and this can only say that this will continue to happen. There's a lot of parole here, and it's been found that those persons were in that area when it comes to drug use. And this all points to 102 that there is one connection between those who should prevent this kind of thing from the police, from the judiciary, and from those organs that we expect to rigorously sanction these people, so that it doesn't happen any further and we don't have any problems. So, in 90% of the cases, people are freed, people are suspended, and in 50% of the cases on two occasions, faces are caught for the same actions. When it comes to public procurement, I think we have enough of these examples, that absolutely nothing has been done in this field and that these public procurement and crime are not happening in ordinary citizens and that this is very much related to institutions, to people in authorities, from local, entity and state level. I'll say where I know about the district attorney's office, I can't talk about the woman, oh, I don't know, Tuzli etc., but the district attorney's office in Bijeljina, here, just look that it's been handed down by a total of 116 convictions, 82 of which are judgmental, 34 acquittal convictions. A total of 81 unjudged judgments and where comments go that the activities of economic crime are detected only after three and more years, mainly after the shift of management in the company, etc. There are many of these cases, but what can be seen is that at least in that part, and I believe that in most of BiH, there is still a strong connection between the people in the prosecution, between the judges, between those people who should be forced and the people who have committed crime, especially when it comes to economic crime and that it is simply trying to prove to the public that the fight against this type of crime on some of the smaller things that do not really bring any good, which creates such a picture as the international community has to us. It is devastating that for some major crimes happening in this area, it does not move to fight it, except when an international factor is involved, and at the same time it is worrying when it is involved: what will happen behind it and what kind of climate will be created here in BiH. It's devastating because it suggests that our prosecution, our judiciary doesn't work, it doesn't work and it's devastating because it indicates that it's bound by power, that these criminal acts simply happen directly and that they're tied up...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22306	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22307	Just a little while longer, that it simply involves the international community and insists in the end, leads to the end, and when it simply comes to judgment, those persons are held in one matt position and lead in that direction to this country that suits it, and essentially it does not correspond to this people. I just have to end up just saying that I think that the proposals and conclusions of this committee are fine, they can be added yet, but without an action plan to implement this strategy, I don't think there will be any results and that we should do all this in the next period. Thank you very much. 103
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22308	I thank the honourable representative Mitrović. I just want to remind you that we've informed you this morning that we'll be working until 6:00 today. However, given that we have the possibility that if we end the debate at this point, now I have no more applicants, we have asked one number of MPs to give up the debate, to end the debate on this point, we have the opportunity to finish tonight, so I ask you to cooperate and to end the debate on this agenda point. I can... I won't deny anyone. Dear Representative Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22310	I will actually give up the whole discussion, just to point out colleagues and colleagues that December 9th is the International Anti-Corruption Day, that on December 11th at 10:30 Transparency International is organising a conference on the International Anti-Corruption Day in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, where an open dialogue of representatives of the institutions of civil society and experts and who did not get the call is an opportunity to inform you in some way to call for us to attend.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22311	I thank the distinguished representative Azra Alajbegović for this notice and conclude the debate on this agenda point. We're going to the 12th point, Ad. 12. Report by the College Committee on Efforts of Consent on Proposal for a Law on Witness Protection Programme in BiH (second reading) You've received the consent report. I remind you, no consent has been reached. There's a second-round vote coming up. Point 13: Ad. 13. Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the settlement of commitments under the account of old foreign exchange savings – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) 104
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22321	I know I'm not gonna be able to ask at the end of the session, so after the vote, but do we have to advertise here these glasses? If possible, I'd like to get a glass without advertising here on the table. Here, as we advertise these waters like this, it would be appropriate to have water in the jar or something else that isn't advertising, but here. Jerko always advertises cigarettes. I once rebelled against it, I see it today, and it's no problem for Parliament, I don't think it's appropriate in this Chamber to advertise any products.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22322	I think there's an objection in place. Here, professional services have heard, so I hope they can address these shortcomings. [[Common discussion]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I hope you've all taken your seats, except for the SNSD Club, where we still have consultations, so we'll wait a little while. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I hope you have now taken your seats, that you have consulted, prepared yourself. I will inform you at certain points about the positions of the enlarged College of the House. Here, there's no need now, but when we get to certain points, for which there are certain arrangements for an extended college, and then you'll be informed. So prepare for a statement on the 1st item of the agenda: The adoption of the minutes of the 39th and 40th session of the House of Representatives, along with the remarks that have been made and which will be removed. Please prepare. Vote now! With 32 votes "yes", without votes "against", one "restricted vote", a sufficient entity majority, I find that the House of Representatives adopted the minutes of the 39th and 40th session of the House of Representatives, with remarks made in the context of the debate on this agenda point. Point 2 - there is no statement. 107rd point: Proposed by Jerka Ivanković Lijanović, Hadzhi Jovan Mitrović and Sefer Halilović to vote on the BiH Council of Ministers' mistrust. We're voting on the proposal. Please prepare. Vote now! Seven votes "for", 23 "against", one "abstained". I find that the proposal has not been accepted. 4. point: Review of the European Parliament Resolution on Bosnia and Herzegovina, adopted at the plenary session of 23.10.2008 in Strasbourg (proposed by Parliament representative Denis Bećirović from the 40th session of the House, held on 19.11.2008) The conclusions of this point were proposed by distinguished representatives Denis Bećirović, Halid Genjac, Martin Raguž and Remzija Kadrić. We have discussed this issue at the Expansive College and the proposal is for an extended college to adopt one joint conclusion in two points that I will read. 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives takes note of the European Parliament's Resolution on BiH, adopted at the 23.10.2008 plenary session in Strasbourg. 2. It is up to the Council of Ministers to submit to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly the Action Plan on the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement no later than seven days after which the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, after a debate, will adopt its work programme on these issues. I'll ask the MPs, who suggested the conclusions, whether they give up their conclusions. Dear Representative Raguž gave up the proposal for his conclusion, with an agreement at the Enlarged College that his proposal would be treated through an action plan of the House of Representatives on these issues. Honorable representative Denis Bećirović, gave up. He's given up the esteemed representative of the Genjac. Martin Raguž, Remzija Kadrić, are dropping out. I thank you all. We're moving on to a statement on these conclusions, which I've read, an extended college. Please prepare. Vote now! With 32 votes "yes", with no votes "against" and "abstained", sufficient entity majority, I agree that the proposal for a conclusion of the Extended College was accepted in two points. We move on to a statement on the 5th item of the agenda: A request by Representative Sadik Bahtić to discuss the proposal for a law on state property of BiH under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. We're voting on the request. May I have your attention, please? I know you're all tired, but not to ask what we're voting on, we're voting on a request for a shortened procedure. 108 Please prepare. Vote now! 21 votes "yes", eight "against", four "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. ...no consent. The results of the merger, you will be notified later. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement – Proposer: Representative Bajazit Jašarević, in accordance with Article 127. I'm opening a debate on the bill. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the bill. Please prepare to vote. Vote now on the bill! With 33 votes "yes", without "against", three "abstained" votes, a sufficient entity majority, I conclude that the proposal for a law amending the Law on Public Procurement, proposed by MP Bajazit Jašarević, has been adopted. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: the proposal for a Bosnia and Herzegovina aviation law (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please prepare. Vote now! With 32 votes "yes", without votes "against", three "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I find the Bosnia and Herzegovina Air Force Bill proposal accepted in the first reading. We move to a statement on the 8th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the provision of services in the air navigation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please prepare. Vote now! With 32 votes "yes", without votes "against", three "abstained" votes, a sufficient entity majority, I conclude that the proposal for a law on the Agency for the provision of services in Bosnia and Herzegovina's air navigation, in first reading, has been accepted. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Public TV System of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please prepare. Vote now! With 34 votes "yes", without votes "against", two "abstained" votes, a sufficient entity majority, I find that the bill, in the first reading, was accepted. 109 We have a proposal from the Committee to discuss the bill immediately and in a second reading. That's what Dom needs to be told. Please make your statement on this proposal to the Committee. Vote now! 19 votes "yes", 12 "against", five "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. The results of the merger, you will be notified later. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on fiscal registers (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please prepare. Vote now! With 27 votes "yes", six "against", three "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I find the proposal for a law on fiscal tills accepted in the first reading. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: Consideration of the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the held information session on the problem of organised crime and corruption, with the proposal for conclusions. We are voting on the conclusions of this committee's report, excluding the conclusion under regular number 12. Please prepare. Vote now! With 28 votes "yes", four "against", four "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I agree that the proposal for a conclusion from the Constitutional Commission report has been adopted. And we have a proposal for the conclusion of the esteemed representative Joza Križanović (one) Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! 22 votes "yes", five "against", eight "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. So no consent has been reached in the College. We're voting in the second round on the proposal for a conclusion. Please prepare. Vote now! With 23 votes "yes", eight "against", five "abstained", an insufficient number of votes "against", I find the proposal for a conclusion accepted. We move to a statement on the 12th item of the agenda: Report from the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for a law on witness protection programme in BiH (second reading). 110 At an extended college session, it was proposed to postpone a statement on this law, with an additional conclusion -- that the BiH Ministry of Justice is committed to try to reach agreement on issues in the bill's proposal and to report to the House in cooperation with entity and cantonal ministries of justice until the next session. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22326	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22327	Read the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22328	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-03-0.u22329	Please. We move to the 17th item of the agenda: Report from the Commission on the attempt to reach agreement on Proposal for the conclusion of Mr. Momčilo Novaković for the discussion of the Information on the current security situation in BiH, with a special focus on terrorism. Voting on Proposal for the conclusion of the distinguished representative Novaković in the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 14 votes "yes", 16 "against", five "abstained", I find that the proposal for a conclusion is not accepted. We approach a statement on receiving information on the current security situation in BiH, with a special focus on terrorism. Stand by. Vote now! 21 votes "yes", six "against", eight "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. The college has reached agreement on this issue. I agree that we have received information on the current security situation in BiH, with a special focus on terrorism. We are voting on the conclusions proposed in the debate. 113 First, the conclusions of the distinguished representative Denis Bećirović. Please prepare. Vote now! 19 votes "yes", six "against", four "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. There's no consent in the College. We vote in the second round. Stand by. Vote now! With 19 votes "for, nine "against", four "abstained", not enough votes "against", I find the proposals for the conclusions of the respected representative Denis Bećirović were accepted. We're moving on to a statement on... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Are you looking for a repeat? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
