ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-20-0.u1730	I am opening the 14th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At today's 14th session of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, there are 14 delegates, four from the Bosniak order, five from the Croatian and five from the Serb people. There is no Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija present, who justified his absence because he was justly prevented from attending the session. For today's 14th session, I suggest the next 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes with the extensions of the 11th, 12th and 13th session of the House of Peoples; 3. Proposal for a law on the independent and supervisory bodies of the BiH police structure, with a Joint Commission on Defence and Security report; 4. Proposal for a law on the Police Body Coordination Directorate and on agencies to support BiH's police structure, with a Joint Commission on Defence and Security report. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Is anyone answering their word? If no one's answering, I'm realizing that we've adopted a proposed agenda that's agreed on at the College. So we move to the first item of the agenda Ad.1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-20-0.u1733	There's no microphone involved... thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-20-0.u1734	Okay, thank you. Mr. Zoran Koprivica?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-20-0.u1735	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-20-0.u1736	Thank you very much. Mr. Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-20-0.u1737	Thank you very much. Dear chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am partially satisfied with the answer, when it comes to the activities of the state authorities to prevent the border between BiH and Croatia, so on the activities that the state authorities are taking to prevent all those places that are suitable for illegal border crossings, human trafficking, goods, etc. and others, and the conduct of other illicit and illegal activities. When it comes to some of the responses that the actions and measures take, so state authorities in relation to the border between BiH and Serbia as well as the border between BiH and Montenegro, I am not satisfied because they only find that no border contract has been signed with the two neighbouring countries, resulting in them being unable to do anything, since there is no border contract, so, for instance, the border police and other state authorities cannot or should do anything from the domain of their jurisdiction. So I would extend and continue the question, in two segments. I would insist, which is: 3 What activities does the Council of Ministers take to conclude 'The Borders Treaty' with neighbouring countries Serbia-Montenegro? What activities do the Border Police and other competent authorities take to prevent these places? Because if we were to respect their logic, then they as a state body, since, according to them, no border treaty has been signed, and the border is known to be an international recognition, etc. etc., then these organs should not even be deployed along the borders with Serbia-Montenegro, and we know that is not the case. So I insist on supplementing this answer in the way I said it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-20-0.u1738	Okay. We can then say that Mr Rančić is partially satisfied and insists on the answer when it comes to these two states, Serbia-Montenegro, in terms of what seems to be in the direction of preventing illegal border crossings and the second question: as long as it has arrived with activities to sign border contracts with Serbia-Montenegro, we have already crossed that into this second part of the agenda. Any new delegate questions? Adem Ibrahimpašić, then here is Zoran Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-20-0.u1739	Here, let me remind you, I've been asking the same question a few times. The last time was 25. The question was: When will it return to the procedure of the proposal to amend customs tariff and excise laws because they are bound? At that time, the Deputy Minister of Finance orally told us that it would be in seven days. It's been 25 days since, and there's still nothing. Someone who's been relevant, is that the Directorate for indirect taxation, there it... it's all ticking up and here, the law has been in the process since November of the month. So that's when I gave the amendments in November of the month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-20-0.u1740	Okay. Zoran Koprivica. Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-20-0.u1741	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I have three questions. The first issue concerns the BiH Veterinary Office and the BiH Council's competent ministry. The question is: What was done at the level of the state and the BiH Veterinary Office on the prevention of the brucellosis epidemic, as it is evident that this epidemic is increasingly taking hold, that new hotspots are being discovered daily. Is there a state strategy for combating brucellosis, and is BiH currently having the potential to save agriculture and villages from this great threat of undetectable consequences? The second question, concerns the Joint College of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly: In the middle of last year, 2007, one of the conclusions of the plenary session of the Parliamentary Assembly was to hold a special session of both Parliament's homes with representatives of the BiH media and on the state of the public information, freedom of the press, freedom of access to information, misappropriation of press freedom and reporting and other topical issues in this area. There are, above all, respect for the Ethics Code of Reporting, objective public reporting on current issues, and issues of responsibility for politicians and journalists for objective information to the public, the general state of information, and, in some cases, the reckless reporting of the public by certain electronic and written media. In order to contribute to overcoming the current chaos in this area, I propose that the conclusion on the maintenance of the mentioned plenary session be respected as soon as possible, with representatives of all leading media in BiH and representatives of international institutions accredited in BiH as well as representatives of entity ministries. The general impression is that the current situation in the area of information is very bad and that it also significantly complicates the overall situation in BiH. One such gathering would certainly raise many open issues, and show ways and ways of overcoming the overall chaos in BiH when it comes to this issue. Our goal is to establish an efficient, objective, fair and transparent system of information in the service of an overall improvement and an accelerated path of BiH towards European integration. In doing so, I propose an alternative variant: the maintenance of such a meeting in the organisation of the OSC. And the third question, concerns the Council of Ministers: I propose that the Council of Ministers, through the Ministry of Economic Relations, in co-operation with the Agency for the Promotion of Exports from BiH, and the BiH Plant Protection Agency, urgently 5 organises a meeting with the entity agriculture ministries on organised plant cultivation at the 30th place in BiH where the best natural conditions exist, and that funds for this investment be provided through favourable EU loans immediately after the signing of the Stabilisation of Association Agreement with the EU. Also, I propose that through this agency, the organisation of the purchase and placement of all products produced on the EU market of medicinal products is provided by the BiH Agency for the Promotion of Exports and the BiH Plant Protection Agency. I've got it in writing, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-20-0.u1742	Okay. Thank you very much. I would really ask that these questions be delivered in writing, so that we can... forward. Slobodan Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-20-0.u1743	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will ask a short question, and it says: When will the Council of Ministers consider the Commission's work on borders and when will it deliver it to the BiH Parliament? In public lately, there's been a lot of talk about the work of this commission. What I could hear was a lot of negativity about her work and a lot of objections to her work and everything she's been doing lately. That is why I think it would be very good to consider the same report as soon as possible at the Council of Ministers and deliver it to this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-20-0.u1744	Okay, thank you very much. This will also come in writing. Does anyone else have any delegate questions? If not, I find that we have completed the first item of the agenda, answers the delegates' questions and delegates' questions. Moving to the second item of the agenda: Ad2. The adoption of the minutes with the extensions of the 11th, 12th and 13th session of the House of Peoples 6 Let's get this straight. First, the 11th-session record and the 12th-session record, given that it's on one act. Does he have any objections to this record? If not, can we adopt? Who Is For? ‘Non’? "Contained"? There isn't. I find that we unanimously adopted the minutes from the 11th and the 12th session of the House of Peoples. Then we move on to the 13th session of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate. Does it have any objections to the proposed minutes? If not, can we vote? Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? There isn't. I find that we unanimously adopted both of these records. And now we're going to the third item of the agenda, that's A.3. Proposal for a law on the independent and supervisory bodies of the BiH police structure, with a Joint Commission on Defence and Security report (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-20-0.u1748	Probably at 4:30.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-20-0.u1749	Until 16:30. Here's the thing. Thank you very much. The session is over at 4:10 p.m.
