ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21392	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 39th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to the representatives, our regular guests were invited: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations who regularly monitor the work of our home and representatives of certain NGOs. I welcome all present representatives and guests, as well as representatives of public information. According to service information, I find that the session is attended by 32 representatives. There are rightly no honourable representatives: Vinko Zorić, Jovan Todorović and Momčilo Novaković. Representatives: Ekrem Ajanović, Sadik Ahmetović, Branko Dokić, Milica Marković and Mirjana Malić, who are members of the Parliamentary Friendship Group, will be late for the session due to commitments with members of the Greek Friendship Group who are visiting our parliament. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. We've had an addition to the agenda this time. We included the following two points, which are mandatory under the Rules of Procedure, which are: 4. A request by Azra Hadžiahmetović to consider the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure and 10. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the SDA Conclusions Proposal for a debate on the State Commission Report on the review of decisions on the naturalisation of foreign citizens in BiH for the period from 1. 1. 2008 to 30. Six. 2008, with a proposal for a conclusion. You've reached the benches with a clear draft agenda. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21393	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, esteemed media representatives, I propose that today we remove points 14 and 15 from this agenda or, which would be a much better option, we invite, here, and I call on colleagues Branko Dokić and Remzija Kadrić to withdraw these two points from today's session of the agenda. I am saying this because these agenda points have absolutely no purpose and no meaning in the existing political consolidation of relations here in Parliament. They represent a clear waste of time today at the session, and it is quite clear, and to the proponents of these points, that with such impertinent debates as it would be, if this item of the agenda were opened, which I absolutely do not doubt, we will certainly not change the speeches of Dodik or Silajdžić speak. It is also clear to the promoters that at the end of this debate it is impossible, in this political constitution, to reach any conclusion at the end of this debate, and in my opinion, any debate that cannot incur some concrete conclusion is just a waste of time. In some ways, this is also a transfer of responsibility outside the BiH Parliament, as the question is raised - why we are not first discussing what is happening in the BiH Parliament. Here, we have a permanent delegation of the House of Representatives in the Council of Europe. And look at the speech of the people of this House. Well, that's the diametric opposite of that. So, I invite my colleague Dokić and my colleague Kadrić to pull these dots off the agenda. I think that, indeed, here in this country, there is finally a need for the ruling coalition to start doing what is done everywhere in the world. First, it is necessary to sit within coalition parties and try to make some arrangements, not first to go to some discussions that are pre-declared to fail. Here, therefore, I call upon my colleagues first to withdraw, if not, then Parliament to take these two points off the agenda because, I repeat, they have really no purpose and no meaning whatsoever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21394	I thank the esteemed representative Bećirović. The next is Remzija Kadrić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21395	I thank you, Chairman. I also suggest that point 14 of this proposed agenda be removed from this session for several reasons. Branko Dokić's initiative and debate on this initiative? If the House accepted to discuss this initiative, this kind of debate would, in my opinion, be contrary to Article IV point 4 and Article V point 3. The BiH Constitution, because according to the BiH Constitution, the powers of both Parliament and the House of Representatives as well as the responsibilities of the Presidency have been correctly established. We have three people here who were in the presidency. They also know very well what 3 of the BiH presidency's responsibilities are. And therefore, to accept that we are discussing the initiative of the honourable MP Dokić, there would indeed be a kind of precedent that has not appeared in practice so far, as he asks MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to deliver full presentations of BiH Presidency, Haris Silajdžić, when addressing the General Assembly in New York and delegates of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. And what's particularly problematic, and he says, that the Dom opt for these speeches! So we need to make some sort of conclusion, opinions on these speeches. If the House were to commit itself to these views, then it would indeed be a direct violation of the BiH Constitution. For these reasons, I propose that this item of the agenda be removed, and the chairman of the Presidency may otherwise inform the MPs and the public of what he said in the United Nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21396	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21397	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I suggest that the 39th session of the House of Representatives be held in accordance with Articles 65 and 150. Rules of Procedure, to classify, as a item of the agenda, the decision of the following content: 1. In accordance with Article V sub (e) of the BiH Constitution, there is a legal foothold, also in the same article and position under g) and Article 171(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure as well as in Article 150 of Articles (1) and (2) under (b), the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has decided: It is up to the BiH Presidency to prepare a report on the costs of the Presidency, including, in addition to the general budget items of revenue, a presentation of all expenditure in the calendar year 2008 and this: type, purpose, amount, amount, or entity, cabinet, service or department that have realised the same reasoning. 2. The report should be delivered by 17.11.2008, in order to be considered at the House session scheduled for 19.11.2008. 3. In accordance with Article 170 (1) and (2) of the House of Representatives invites you to explain the Report and participate actively in the debate. In order not to explain broadly, this home brings a budget, is responsible for this budget, and we have hardly planned and accepted it, and we have no information on where that money is being spent. I warned you that means the Presidency has a commitment once a year, and it would be desirable and more, but since this calendar year is at an end, then this is some last train and we should inform us to see where they spent that money and that should be the rule of all the institutions in Parliament that spend this budget, and we are in charge of monitoring that budget and that this information definitely comes to those who need to be reached. Thank you very much. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21398	Thank you. All I'm asking is for you to provide the services of the motion for a decision so that we can share with the MPs. The next is distinguished representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21399	So, I suggest you enter a agenda point called 'Analysing the situation in the CIPS project, with a specific reference to the issue of false documents.' Explanation: Lately, we have witnessed several events that point to concerns about the situation in the CIPS project and citizens' parent records. Just before the 2008 local elections, the BiH Prosecutor's Office opened an investigation into the issue of fake documents in Brcko and some municipalities in RS. Also, the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Natrualisation of Foreign Citizens found in its report that thousands of naturalised citizens are not kept in their home records. And finally, there is a reasonable doubt that a recent terrorist act in Zagreb has executed a person who has personal BiH documents and, under strange circumstances, has not been arrested by the RS Police. So Bosnia is obviously becoming an asylum for criminals, is it, financing election results etc. In view of these and numerous other events, as well as the fact that administrative procedures, which are the basis for issuing personal documents, are managed by internal affairs authorities, the need for a detailed analysis of these phenomena is imposed. That is why it is necessary for the BiH Council of Ministers or today to give oral information if it is ready, or to draw up written information that would be discussed at the next session of the House. After this debate, SDA will propose conclusions, with the aim of removing anomalies and establishing a normal situation in this area. So if they're ready today orally, then today I suggest we put it on the agenda, if not, then written information at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21400	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21401	Thank you, Chairman. Namely, it's no problem to put any part of the agenda on this session, we just need to have materials for that session. I don't see the possibility to get for this session the materials Mr. Izetbegović was talking about. On the other hand, the way he explained this point and brought into one, let me say, the negative context of the RS police, I don't think it's 5 in relation to that agenda point. And I think that such a shocking finding, that in a strange way, the RS has avoided the arrest in question, does not bring any real situation to the fore in which it was done here in BiH. So, prejudging any kind of thing and saying that in a strange way it happened, I think it also puts the police in a negative context. On the other hand, for proposals coming from Mr Bećirović and Mr Kadrić, I would like to say that it is our business obligation to talk about these initiatives here, especially as we have our commission's opinion. The second thing is whether the House will reject them, not to discuss them as the measure of things, but to reject these initiatives. So, we have to put this business on the agenda, and the House has to decide on that, not to discuss it or to accept it or not to accept the Commission's opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21402	Dear Representative Bakir Izetbegović, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21403	... What's the name of the man? [[no microphone turned on]] Police, when it came to the arrest of Milovanović in Doboj, as far as I know, found that the man was ten minutes before he entered the regular, regular police station, that he was present and that he had not arrived to pick up some tens of thousands of euros. The man was either kidnapped or, I don't know, what made him leave the premises so panicously and not pick up tens of thousands of euros. I think it's under strange circumstances, Mr. Živković. I don't know what else to call it. The other thing is, it's so much of the current stuff. A month and a half ago, the SDA warned, asked for an urgent review of what was going on in Brcko, Bijeljina, etc. And we set some deadlines. Parliament supported them. We should've had that information in writing on the table by now. And it's so current that it took this power to deal with it. And I think she deals with these problems daily, and I thought they might be ready, right here today, to give us oral information. These are the most powerful things at this hour, not just in BiH. We're talking about some white alkaids and now we catch up there, find a trail of heavy terrorists, and then we don't want to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21404	Correction of the incorrect allegation, Honored Second Vice-President, Dr. Milorad Živković
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21405	Thank you, Chairman. I didn't say I didn't want to discuss it, I'm saying that in the wrong context you've brought this event and misused the word "weird." Because you'd better use the word'suspecting', because it's very suspicious how that helmet that man used, if he used in Croatia, brought home to Doboj and some other very suspicious things that happened about it, rather than strange than suspicious, that we talked about here with our six intelligence systems in BiH. That's what we need to discuss in BiH, not the subject that you... [[You don't understand the end of a sentence.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21406	Dear representative Milica Marković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21407	My replica refers to Mr Izetbegović's exposure, because he highlighted today a question that we could treat individually in the entire security system in the RS and BiH, but I am a little surprised that some previous cases that occurred in BiH, as happened last year in the murder of a minor boy in the tram, as did the murder of an old woman in the Sarajevo area, as many other criminal acts have happened in this country, never raised the question that this was the point of the agenda in Parliament, although I don't think Parliament can discuss it. But if we talk about overall security, such as you say, strange cases, then I think we should put on the agenda a general policy of security, so the superior position and effect of the current minister of security in the Council of Ministers and discuss it, and not ask individual cases and individual questions here, just because we're interested in it right now. And the fact that a young man was killed in a tram, that some other people were killed, and that all sorts of things happen under strange circumstances, right in this town, that's not what the question is. I will support your proposal, colleague Izetbegović, for such topics and for such points of the agenda, but when you set it objectively and when it is systematically set.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21408	Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21409	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, we are likely to find some progress this way in this home, but it is not a comfort to me that others today insist on no progress. It is not a comfort to me that others who have promised to make their contribution to a relaxing situation in this home that, apparently, what would be said in the People's Dictionary as they say, are cooking up... But well, what, we can't avoid it. They want to impose more tensions here now and it would be fair, if, which is their undeniable right, to use this by argument and procedure. So, first information, then let's say it's like that. Why Mr. Izetbegović thus shares the country's desire to discuss issues in RS separately. Why does it suit you at one point, and here we are, why did you leave the principle of discussing the whole of BiH? But today is the topic of the RS, tomorrow the Federation, here is your principle that you impose. If you insist on it, then we'll find a way for us to fit in, when it comes to security issues. In line with the Rules of Procedure, if this point comes to the agenda, we don't mind discussing some information, not speculation. 7 I suppose you will accept that next time it will be for the Federation, the information that you know well and more than we have never seen the light of day. We usually find that out from foreign representatives, they keep us informed of various terrorist camps, various actions by the Federal Muppet against terrorists who, with explosives and others, are preparing for cathedrals or, I don't know, whatever it was said, and then everything quieted down, nothing more has been said. That was it. But it didn't happen to us. But if you insist on talking that way and sharing that problem, here's what you suggest, on this one and that one, and we don't mind if that's the way it is. But probably, when we get things straight to the end, we'll see what they look like. And about the relationships of those who have been killed with those who are alive and who have led to this whole situation that has led to a great investigation and I, as a citizen, are livingly interested in what kind of a devastation will be. Not just about Milovanović who's famous for everything. And there is much that is unknown and who are the heads of the mafia in Zagreb, who are the heads of the Sarajevo mafia and who is in what, which ultimately led to tragic crime and murder, so that if it comes to the agenda, I don't mind. And on the basis of the arguments. It would be our turn to get some information. And a remark about what Mr. Kadrić was saying? If it is also the principle that we are not discussing these problems in the BiH Parliament, I agree. We don't mind high-ranking state officials going to entity parliaments and discussing all the issues there, and having it disputed here. Mr Sulejman Tihić is a frequent guest of the RS Parliament where as a senior state official he participates in all discussions there. Completely legal, legitimately he comes there, debates, and I didn't see that there is a topic that bothers him, which he is discussing in parliament of the RS. But we want him and the other state officials to come here to our Parliament, to ours! Why do they respect entity parliaments more and why do they prefer to go there than here? And we think that regardless of giving all the information to the entity MPs, I think it's time for the members of the state presidency to also give to the MPs in the state parliament. I don't know why they prefer to do it only by entity parliaments and meet with entity prime ministers and run that kind of policy without ignoring their state parliament, as if we're some kind of high-level plague organization, so they're bypassing us. Here, I don't remember when any of them were here and what bothers them so much. And a little bit, a little bit from the entity that invites them, they run, they agree on this, at those meetings with the presidents of the entity parties that are very small, they hold different kinds of haystacks on all possible issues in this country. It is now suddenly controversial about the foreign policy of this country which I am not convinced is not interested in these MPs that no debate can be held in this House! If the intensity is that only as two state-owned elements of BiH are discussed only by entities and thus disengage this parliament, here you go. Here, if that's the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21410	Dear Representative Bakir Izetbegović, replica second.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21411	So, if I said there were suspicious circumstances, Mr. Živković would probably say they were strange. And, Mrs. Marković, this isn't an individual case, this is a phenomenon. This is the phenomenon we pointed to in September. So it's about tens of thousands of forged documents. And 8 I really, really had no intention of attacking RS, and I don't think this is the way you defend it. If we call crime, if I say that thousands of naturalized citizens are not kept in their home records, I don't know where it is, whether it's in the Federation or in the RS, I really don't know. All I see is that these strange things happen or suspicious things, however you like. Next, I called Brcko. It's not in RS. After all, I say, I have roots in Bosnia and Herzegovina, my father was born there, I don't give up that part of BiH, you don't have to defend him from me. And indeed, this is not the way to defend RS. No RS attacked. I'm in favour of introducing order. Don't, I mean, be against seeing what crimes happen in any part of BiH. It's not the way to defend the RS. Well, I don't know where thousands of naturalized citizens are, they don't keep their background records. I don't know if it's in the Federation or in the RS? This Milovanović was treated at the Tuzlan hospital. There are criminals to be caught. You need to see what's going on with all this. I mean, I don't know what's going on... [[You don't understand the end of a sentence.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21412	Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21413	Dear Chairman, I would fully support what Mr. Izetbegović said, just to spread that story to all BiH. Here... last night at a ceremony if I was told by the Director of the Federal Police that the Minister of Security in two years or not, or what the people would say, was not called out of humiliation by Uroš Pen, the Director of the Police of the RS and the Director of the Federal Police of Sarajevo here – Minister of Security of BiH! And you will, Mr. Izetbegović, today's information about what happened to Milovanović! Well, I won't give it to you. I suppose these two men, or three, were able to provide information through the Minister of Security. Here, I pray to Bog that a criminal, a criminal, a terrorist, whatever you want, I'll give him all those names, get arrested as soon as possible. Why should we take any credit for ourselves, if that's who he is? Maybe he's worse, but let the investigative organs show. But please, what you've been running for today, run for your Minister Tarik Sadović. Why didn't he call, in two years' time, the Director of the Police of the RS and the Director of the Federal Police to tell them, he may not have ordered them, because he'll tell them he has no jurisdiction, but to tell them - gentlemen, what's going on in your entities, I don't know, the police, give information to this Parliament. So that would be the right way to talk. And now, I completely agree that you've run for Milovanović, now I could tell you - what happened to the Knight? How quickly do you get over that story? There's a man dead, and it could've been 50, God Bog! How you cross over many others. Then let's put a "Common Security in BiH" point, so let's see what this is all about.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21414	Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21415	We, a while ago, passed police reform laws here, and then I said that police reform should be done for our own sake, and for some of the conditions that the EU has given us. And here it turns out we don't have well-organised police in BiH, which can adequately address BiH's problems. 9 Mr. Izetbegović has potentiated the situation in the CIPS. The CIPS project is at the level of the BiH state and this parliament has the right to seek information on what is happening in the area? There are also facts that SIPA's action has arrested RS MUP workers working on a CIPS project in Brcko, Šekovici and Srebrenica. And these are the facts we need to keep in mind and the space where the gaps were made is where the CIP project was implemented and... the workers of the RS MUP. Also, Milovanović's problem is an international problem. The problem occurred in Zagreb, and it is logical that the BiH state responds to these problems and it is logical that this parliament discusses it. It is also true that even in the case of the murder of Denis Mrnjavac, Parliament of Canton of Sarajevo and the Federation Parliament has been discussed several times, and there is no reason not to debate this parliament either. So we are not running away from any phenomenon when it comes to breaching security in BiH that this parliament, if necessary, does not discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21416	Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica second.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21417	I said this way we won't get anywhere but to an even greater degree of mistrust and I think we've read a book for all those watching us. You see, one criminal organization in the area of the former Yugoslavia has dealt with everything and everything, it's obvious, and now it's seen how people make these contours. Together she dealt with two criminals, this Milovanović and (not to mistake the name of the man, Mr Izetbegović, you know the name of the one from Kladjuba) Hadžić together did what they've been doing for years, criminals are friends. And then you come and one of the most dangerous ways to separate them. _________? [[no microphone turned on]] Wait, wait, you're nervous when I talk, so wait, people listen to us. People participated together in the project, the criminal project, means that the criminals cooperated, and now you, from that context, are taking out what is most dangerous, you are taking out a Srbin from that context, but you have forgotten that he and the others did the same thing with him and the others, and you are not saying that this organization, not seeing who belongs to whom, in some way you learned it all from the media as I did. I'm guessing you don't have any official information about what you're saying, but you do have any official information from the media. If from the media, gentlemen, are we to remain silent about the world's greatest force in all Bosnian-Herzegovina media saying that the BiH Security Minister is no longer wanted anywhere. If that's what it says, so go ahead, sue those media, go ahead, deny it, go ahead, somebody explain if it's like that, everybody shut up. And in the media, it says everything about Milovanović and I, here, have nothing official or US attitude towards Sadović. And if such a message is sent to the Minister of Security, and you want us to go deaf about it, to skip that story, and at the same time we're looking for what you're looking for, which we don't have anything against, but look how stupid it sounds when you get out of the 10 contexts of Milovanović, and leave this one out of Klavuda or leave this one out of the Knights, and it's like we're creating some kind of idea that there's something bad in one part of it, and like in another... So you know in the end how this debate will end, which is why we're some kind of mathematical comparisons or that kind of counting. And I said it's not wise for you to start that story because she's who she is. If the minister of security from a party that is against police reform, so what else should be reformed as Sadović is looking for it, it would be undesirable for all world forces, not just for the United States. Here, so you should have accepted the model Sadović was looking for. Well, here, we have, he opposed that model, so what are the United States of America against him? And they don't, they don't mention these others who, in some way, are doing their job, and Miletić and Pena, or, I don't know, I don't know, all the people in those security structures. I don't think it's right that this debate is going this way, because it loses every sense, because it's so hollow and it's so easy to break that there's no reason to take time today at this session about these things. I said, if you have official information, give it to us, if you have media speculation, then take everything around Kladuma and Sadović and the Vitez and, I don't know, me and Milovanović, among other things.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21419	Replica, distinguished representative Sadik Ahmetović, second.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21420	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think we started discussing what we were supposed to discuss when we adopted the agenda. But, Mr. Kalabić, so you do media speculation when you talk about Minister Sadović. I can read and read sometimes what you read. And there is no need to use such qualifications at Mr Sadović's expense. Secondly, when Mr Izetbegović said Milovanović, so there is a difference between Milovanović, there is no difference in their work between Mr Milovanović and this gentleman in Kladusa, but there is a significant difference, there is a significant difference that I will now tell you. This one in Kladusa was arrested by the Federal Police, and this one in the Knights was arrested by the Federal Police, unfortunately, Milovanović was not arrested... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the end of the line.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21421	No more reports for replicas. For debates, I've got some debates. Is there a replica? Is there? No, no. So the esteemed representative Selim Bešlagić, the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21422	But, I rephrase to us, I suggest we hold a session of Parliament to determine the agenda. I think it's the best replica in which we can say - gentlemen dear, the criminal is a criminal and the criminal needs to answer! And I agree that this must be an analysis at the level of the BiH state that will enter both Doboj and the Bosnian Klasudou and the one, I don't know, from Mostar and the 11 from Tuzla, etc. And that's where I absolutely agree with you. It must be an analysis that will say what security problems in BiH are about, unfortunately, when we were to discuss it, we did not discuss it this way, but we leave that part. I think we need an analysis of the CIPS project, for the reason of what's happening to us, for the reasons of the 10,000 reported, for the reason that CIPS information goes to other countries, but illegal. But that's the task of a thesis that I think Mr. Izetbegović said -- I suggest an analysis be made. But by adopting your proposal, it means an overall analysis and that it goes to the next session, I would say, Parliament. For one simple reason we can't open this debate today, because we don't seem to have any competent people who could do this. Secondly, it is not only Mr Sadović who is competent and responsible for this parliament, but what you said, he is obliged to call the interior ministers and the RS and the Federation and all those institutions that provide information to ensure that this bill is properly informed. And let us understand once that we are really on the agenda for longer than at some important points which I find uneconomically available to time in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21423	Thank you. Is there anyone else to report? There isn't. For discussion? Dear second vice-president, Dr. Milorad Živković, so let the distinguished representative Husein Nanić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21424	It's about the agenda. Namely, one thing is the proposal Mr. Izetbegović made here to discuss the problems that are in the CIPS. And it would be my fault if we could discuss that part of the agenda if we had the material for that part of the agenda. The question is, will we be able to secure it for the next session? On the other hand, his remarks regarding the inaction or strange actions of the RS police on a concrete case, on which I had a grudge and said that it might not have been the case that the BiH Court of Justice kept that man in prison, rather than letting him out of prison, which, apart from the RS Police, would have inserted this story and the BiH Court of Justice, because the RS police arrested him and the BiH Court let him go. And the second is quite a matter of telling the security situation here in BiH, where intelligence services don't talk to each other, where intelligence services don't supply information to the Council of Ministers, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and where no one communicates with anyone, but only work as branches of diplomatic representations here in BiH. And we want to talk about this subject in this parlametre, too, to talk to our minister about asking for information about it. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21425	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Husein Nanić, and may the distinguished representative Sefer Halilović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21426	I thank you, Chairman. Members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like here within this item of the agenda, to ask Parliament to ask the College for information, given that I was the proposing of an initiative which was adopted at the 31st session of this House unanimously... and was also supported by the Joint Commission on European Integration of both homes, with the requirement to task the Council of Ministers to draw up and within as soon as possible, and at the latest within 45 days, to deliver to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH 'Information on the readiness of BiH institutions to undertake obligations relating to the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement'. I appreciate that this item of the agenda needs BiH and all its institutions and our MPs primarily to see what potentials, the capacities BiH has to implement the obligations that we are now set up. But today, after 137 days, I, as an MP, have no information, I believe no one else, has the Council of Ministers done anything about it. This is the conclusion of this House to the Council of Ministers, this is no longer an initiative of one MP. In that sense, I just don't know how to stand up to this. Whether we as MPs will get an answer from the Council of Ministers, whether it will be delivered to the agenda, or whether it is my obligation to continue to look for a agenda point in this initiative to ask the Council of Ministers to do so or not. So here's why I'm appealing to the College that the conclusion in general, probably the other conclusions that we're making, see if the Council of Ministers has won and checked to the extent that this information has come with that information that this information would be at this home and that it would be discussed, because, therefore, I conclude, it really needs us and this is now the conclusion of the House... We expect the Council of Ministers to honor that conclusion that we have all adopted here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21427	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Sefer Halilović, and may the distinguished representative Zlatko Lagumdžija be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21428	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, honored guests, unlike Mr Bećirović, I support these initiatives and Mr Dokić and Mr Kadrić to discuss this in this House, regardless of what I fully agree with the findings Mr Bećirović made that it would be an empty debate. But another event is in one part of BiH, or another event in the other part of BiH, has caused a terrible political storm and 13 earthquakes, and we should talk about it, by proposing that the agenda be removed from today's session and put on the agenda when Mr Silajdžić and one of the RS leadership are assured. Because finally, if we go this way through this kind of thing, we're going to have this sort of thing happening in the future, and I think that we should once, as serious people, sit here and talk seriously. Secondly, I propose to remove himself from today's session of the agenda but to hold a debate after preparation and after ensuring the presence of someone from the RS Parliament and Mr Silajdžić. And secondly, on the trail of what Mr. Bešlagić said, I would really ask you, from the ruling coalition, to finally agree on the agenda and not to harass us here. You've been harassing us for hours, we lose every session for a few hours because you can't sit down before the session, have coffee and agree on the agenda. And I think that this really goes beyond all possible limits, I'd say even, I'd dare even say courtesy. Because you've been discussing some Milovanović here for hours, some kind of, I apologize to Mrnjavac, some other criminal, a third criminal, a fifth criminal. The Mrnjavac is the victim of this whole story. Or, if you are unable to agree on the agenda, how will you be able to agree on some global issues, on a difficult economic situation and, if you will, the political situation in the country? And how will you agree on any measure to overcome the situation and to make this people live better than it is here!? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21429	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Zlatko Lagumdžija, and let the distinguished representative Mirko Okolić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21430	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try to contribute in my discussion to get out of this debate today on the agenda, by, however, not today, but in the near future, we will systematically discuss things that are here, true, one at a time, but essentially all very valuable to our attention. I think I agree with those who said we shouldn't run away from any phenomenon, as counterpart Sadik and colleague Bakir said. I don't think it's appropriate for SNSD gentlemen from the SDA to address their coalition partners by instructing them to ask your minister for something. No minister here is the minister of any political party, another thing is that they come from different political parties, but each of these ministers and deputies as well as the chairman of the Council of Ministers is in fact a common minister of all of us as members of parliament, but above all a common minister of ruling political parties. I think the key argument on the CIPS and the links to the case is, come on, let's call it for now Milovanović... and I think the CIPS should be led by a proper debate, but the CIPS 14 has not produced criminals, but criminals have misused the overall process of issuing documents that the CIPS is part of. And those two things if we go wrong, I'm afraid we'll go the wrong way. However, the fact is that in the public lately, and here are the right to mention different cases, but I'm afraid that here the debate is being conducted in a sense – these are your criminals, not touching them, which you wouldn't talk about your criminals, don't talk about ours! And if we go like that, then we'll actually only talk about our criminals, never criminals. And if those criminals, criminals to anyone in this House, then we have every reason to talk about these criminals. My, Mr. Chairman, the proposal from this is very simple, which is that I don't think we should be running from discussing these topics that are given here, but in one system way. And give our minister the responsibility to prepare appropriate information with some analysis and plan of activity. I think these three cases that were mentioned here, actually, are two or three, and then I'll be the third. The first case is in the Knights. Indeed, it is an act that has excited the entire Bosnian Herzegovina public. And if that's effectively settled, well, it's good to be informed about it and that's good. And let's see, if there's no problem, are the employers found and what's behind it? If it was a common crime, it was solved. It's good to know that it's not about to be manipulated further in public. Also, we have the case of the second and third, the Milovanović-Hadžić case, which is in some way, whether, however much we separate it, is connected, even connected to a much wider mile of criminal network from the whole region. And I think he's really worth the attention. If one of them is effectively arrested, and the other one isn't, and that's why we need to see, to tell us what it's all about, to get rid of the real stuff tomorrow. The third case, or here's the fourth one, whatever you want, I'm putting it right here in front of us right now. At present, there is no less interesting case of trial of an organised criminal group in Sarajevo. The public could hear in the last two days the means of information, according to the prosecution's representatives, that people who, watch out, have been directly communicating with a criminal in prison and agreed on how to hire one of them, for the purposes of this criminal, as he says, apologize for the expression, a black man to rape someone's child. Now, look, it's something that also deserves to be the subject of this kind of debate. Mr. Chairman, I therefore propose that you do not fail these wonderful proposals from the ruling coalition that you cannot, is it, vote because someone is against some part of us, we support the conclusion and our few clubs, I hope that they will join here, we have already discussed it, and I do not doubt that you from the ruling coalition will support the conclusion: - Due to the recent events in the criminal mileage in the public known as the bombing in the Knights Market Centre, the trial of an organised group in Sarajevo with pressures on the authorities and in the case of Milovanović-Hadžić as part of an international criminal affair, the Ministry of Security is tasked to prepare for the next session the title 'Information on these events, with a plan for the activities of competent institutions to improve the overall security situation and support institutions in the fight against organised crime. (The End of Calls Information). I don't believe anyone in this House would be against one such information, one systematic debate about how organized criminals are escaping today in agreement with 15 police, and how in the other part of BiH, police allow a man who is on a phone trial to give orders to how much money to pay for someone to kill or rape. I don't believe there's anyone who could be against being responsible for this, in this House, and we're going to come to any concrete conclusion, even if we don't have a conclusion on what they're going to say about ourselves, and then we're going to see who these criminals are about who we are. We can talk about that too. And I expect the Ministry of Security to let us and those indications, if there are, so that we don't inform each other from the media and wave to each other. Now, I'll give you this proposal conclusion if possible and I have no doubt that it will come to your support. Perhaps it would be best for the College to formulate this properly, I immediately give up if you're willing to move forward in the spirit of this, so that we can overcome this further discussion of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21431	Thank you. I ask that you deliver this, and others who have suggested that they submit proposals for decisions, conclusions and initiatives in writing before the hearing. The following was reported by distinguished representative BrankoDokić, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21432	Mr. Chairman, I've asked for it before, but we can't keep eye on each other. In fact, the replica is what Mr. Halilović proposed earlier. Respecting his reasons for delaying the debate on this point 14, which concerns the presentation of the BiH Presidency in the UN General Assembly and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I think there is no reason for this point to be removed from the agenda for the simple reason why I asked in this initiative for Parliament to define itself according to these speeches. So, it's been a long time, I hope all the MPs got those speeches. Mr Silajdžić would be welcome, and there is time, if he wants to come, he can eventually come. I want to remind you that there was an initiative by the SNSD Club in that sense. So something similar to this initiative, but this initiative asked directly for Mr Silajdžić to be present in this case and inform us. So, I mean, there's no need to take this off the agenda. We have enough elements. I say again, I ask the MPs to surrender to these exhibits, according to the information that has been presented. And I hope that we will have the strength to carry out an objective analysis and an assessment of what is said and that it can be beneficial for all of us and perhaps introduce a new practice in similar situations when someone represents us outside the country. Because one is the story when we talk to each other here, and the other is the drink when we represent the country, the whole country, and all the peoples in the international, and the most significant, institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21433	No microphone 16
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21434	Is it a replica? Dear Representative Halilović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21435	With respect, Mr. Dokić, but I don't know what Mr. Silajdžić said in New York or Strasbourg. And I really don't know what to comment on. I guess we should see what he said first, and then we should comment on that. And that's why this point today and this other one should be removed from the agenda by Remzija Kadrić. And secondly, I think we should respect one elemental principle here to hear the other side. Therefore, any discussion without their presence here, I think, without their presence and without receiving the whole text of speech, would be excessive. And make sure we have a lot to say about it. The other thing, someone, I'm sorry, I didn't miss to track who was talking about it. In this House, we should discuss what the delegations of this Parliament are saying in the Council of Europe. We have up there, our delegation has completely conflicting views in the Parliament of Europe. And give it once, if you want to talk like serious people, let's clean up in your house first. Let's first see what our delegation says upstairs, this Parliament in the Council of Europe. Because in the Council of Europe, there are completely conflicting views. And after that, we open up the debate, and before that, we should get to see what people were saying. I don't know what Silajdžić said in either New York or Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21436	I'm afraid after last session, when we spent more than half the session on these initiatives, we're going to waste half the session again. It is the mandatory items of the agenda and the proposals for download will not be put on the statement at all. It means it's a matter of business on mandatory points. Dear colleague Živković had already said that in his address, and I thought that was enough. So he's already said, and we're not wasting our time convincing each other. Through discussion, each of us can express his view of these initiatives, whether involved or not. I'm asking you not to waste irrational time, but here I have to give every word. Here's the replica, the esteemed representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21437	I'll just have two sentences, Mr. Chairman. I really meant it, and I asked it to be spoken to all MPs. It can be done now, it's not long, there's time to read. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21438	Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21439	Thank you, Chairman. I would ask only Mr. Zjajić to meet us here, or the MPs, to know what we are pleading here today when it comes to these two initiatives. I just want to remind you that today is not a discussion on the agenda of the initiatives themselves, which, of course, are necessary and the presence of those to whom they apply. And, of course, it is also necessary for all MPs to be familiar with the content of the speech that is concerned. Today, we are declaring whether this initiative will receive Parliament's support to be the item of the agenda at one of the next sessions. I'm asking you, this was just a real intervention in the sense that we're not exhausting ourselves in discussions about something that we don't, of course, have any material or assumption that we're having a content debate about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21440	I thank the distinguished representative Hadžiahmetović. Here, I don't think there's any need to repeat the clarifications, but I'm starting with the assumption that you all have rules of procedure. So there's no need for any extra, thank you anyway for this clarification to the MPs. The next is Honourable representative Mirko Okolić, and let the first deputy president Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21441	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, media representatives, international organisations and other guests, here, I will try very briefly because I am irritated by this discussion almost every session when we determine the agenda. And I think this is unnecessary, and we'll probably agree that most of us do. The agenda and the points that are required to go to the agenda? They should not be discussed, but in the debate, fight for or against what is in it, and I will not talk about it. But I would suggest the following: to be serious in the next period when proposing new agenda points at the session itself, because they need to be explained with a special explanation, there must be special types and character. However, I also agree that all those initiatives that are current, such as the now security situation in BiH, are current, and that this should be followed up. It is: to task the Ministry of Security to prepare a comprehensive security analysis for the next session, as there have already been some proposals, not for one of the next, but for the next, because there is enough time, because this topic is hot, with a tendency for the MP to cast an accent on what he is interested in in this security analysis. That's how we'll get to the next session of the conversation. We will be able to discuss this analysis, by all segments, 18, and of course we should recommend that this analysis of the security situation not be delivered under the designation of secrecy, more than confidential, because then this parliament will not be able to discuss it. And in the future, let's try to get the agenda, the one that we get from you, the College, in which you really make the effort, it seems to me, that you give it to the MPs as it should be, try to get it in line before the session comes, and that there may only be an exception to having to, or there may be a need to run for a new point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21442	I'll just give you a quick answer. So, the College is making efforts to keep the agenda in line with the Rules of Procedure, and it is doing so at the meetings of the College, and it is also making efforts at meetings of the Expanded College to agree the agenda with all clubs. We did it yesterday and there were no objections to the agenda. However, the College has no authority over each of you individually whether or not they will behave in accordance with previously agreed matters. So it's not about the College. I just want to say it like that. Please, would you like to comment? The Honorable Representative of the Okolić?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21443	I didn't criticize you, I commended you for making as much effort as I think you are. But I did appeal to the presidents of the clubs that what you arrange at the College and the Expansive College to honor it at the session, not because the cameras are at the beginning, open up the debate, and here, look. I suggest that the next time the cameras end up being voted we bring here, there will be nothing, and that the agenda will be very easy to adopt. So I appealed to them. Or, on the contrary, let them fight on an enlarged college to fit in everything they think they need to fit in. That's what I thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21444	Thank you. Dear Representative Remzija Kadrić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21445	I'll just take a minute. Therefore, honourable MP Branko Dokić reiterated his initiative, so he wants the House to define itself according to Haris Silajdžić's speech at the UN and in Strasbourg. So that's the key thing, this house has no right by the Constitution to commit to these speeches. And I'm surprised that initiative even went away. An MP can't run every kind of initiative, what he's trying to do. Halid Genjac, Beriz Belkić and Jozo Križanović were in the presidency. They well know that this home cannot make a decision about whether his speech was harmful, bad, good, or this and that. It is a matter of the Presidency, a matter of foreign policy on which Parliament cannot take its views in this particular case. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21446	I thank the honourable representative. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21447	I was first today – there was 10.15 on that watch, now 11.20 – came around the agenda and in line with the Rules of Procedure I knew that I couldn't change that agenda point, but I invited my colleague, Remzija and my colleague Dokić, to withdraw this from the agenda. Now that we've lost more than an hour on the agenda, we'll lose new hours there when we open those dots, and yet we won't reach any conclusions. So, folks, why would we be having a debate if we can't reach any conclusions? So I call you nicely, pull these points out of the agenda if that's possible, and you can do so at this point, and let's accept this proposal which is quite rational, related to the security situation proposed by a colleague of Lagumdžija and that in the next session we have one prepared information that will treat this important issue entirely for this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21448	Thank you. Is it a replica or a debate? You're registered. The next is the first deputy president, Beriz Belkić, and let the distinguished representative Jozo Križanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21449	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I assure you that I am not in line, but I have waited patiently for the order. So it's my impression that all the MPs who called to discuss the agenda at the beginning said they wanted to do a more rational, more functional, spending this time. Each of us abused it. Here, I'll try to abuse a little, not too much, not too much. Mr. Chairman and Vice-President tried on two occasions to warn that in the Rules of Procedure everything was more or less regulated, or more. When it comes to the way the agenda is defined, we mentioned an extended college, we mentioned the College, we mentioned the possibility of an initiative, which doesn't mean that all these initiatives that were thrown out after each other through the discussion, corrected by this, added, could all have been given 10 and 15 days ago towards the College, according to the Expanded College, wrote, prepared, given, etc. So no one is limited, and no one has an obstacle to any initiative. Next, we have to have a little tolerance, and when people don't take advantage of it, so they say, here, we're not interested in the Extended College, we're not interested in the possibility before the session, etc., we have to be patient that people have the right to go out with the initiative. We'll decide whether to raise our hands or not. And in my opinion, we have two exits. Or to respect this Rules of Procedure as we have, changes and additions to the Rules of Procedure are under way if someone thinks this is not good as we have, we can do something, or, otherwise, we should move on to the next version – 20 have only one item of the agenda at each session, call it's a lot' and discuss everything, so maybe a little subversive 10 minutes for Lagumdžija, 5 minutes for Belkić, etc., that people don't bother whether it's a business, whether it's a replica, etc., but simply prescribe it to give people, and that's that. So, we all know, we all know the Rules of Procedure and we know the possibilities and we all say there's abuse here. Don't abuse! No Niko has the hindrance to suggest anything and ask for a hearing but by procedure and the way the Rules of Procedure says so.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21450	I would like to thank the esteemed First Deputy Chairman, Beriz Belkić. The next is distinguished representative Jozo Križanović, and let the distinguished representative Drago Kalabić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21451	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I actually thought I'd give up this debate because I don't think I'm going to make a special contribution and we're going to spend a little more time. I particularly thought after discussions between colleagues Bešlagić and Halilović. Because you see, objectively, we have the biggest problem of spending time adopting the agenda when we have an unsustainable session on the agenda. You see, for today's session, we have more than half a agenda of parliamentary initiatives, either in terms of any changes and additions to the law or in the light of some other initiatives. So, we sort of fill in, essentially, the consequential dissatisfaction of this home with this kind of debate. I will still try to make a contribution to this debate. You see, in order to avoid what is already happening to us regularly, I propose a working conclusion that will not be very much contrary to the current Rules of Procedure. I will deliver this conclusion in writing, and it refers roughly to the following proposal: 'It is impossible to change the agenda during the adoption of the agenda', as I would like to say, 'if it is not in writing a change of agenda and a minimum of 24 hours before the College of the House was delivered.' In that sense, the College of the House could bring it to the Expansive College and then that the Expansive College is doing something meaningful, not simply satisfying some form there. So here's what I would like to suggest for us to have, in some sense, this approach to the adoption of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21452	I thank the esteemed representative Križanović. The next is distinguished representative Drago Kalabić, and let the distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21453	Ladies and gentlemen, according to this debate that we, to be honest, did not initiate or wish for, at some point might be interesting statistics as to what Mr. 21 Belkić was talking about - who and what we find, so we might also have that kind of statistics, who was using it, so yes, here we look at that. But here, about that, by that. Respecting, but respecting the fact that some things have been on the table today, which would have been said, and that they have shown the interest of the MPs to discuss this topic, we propose, means to include the item of the agenda "The current security situation in BiH, with a special focus on terrorism". Conscious of the business gap, so we suggest that it be treated as other points that have the same deficiency. Whether it will be agreed that it goes as a common point at the next session of the agenda or in what way, for us it is open, given that it shows interest and that this is how we discuss it. I'm sorry we didn't agree to this before the session, so it's about the extended college, but it's already our old pain. And we're open here completely that she's being treated like this, consciously, I'm stressing again, the need to gather enough material to discuss and everything else. And I will say one fact, given that we are serious people and that it is not correct for us to sometimes move on and because of some others who are engaged in serious business, and man, although he is keeping an eye on the situation because for a long time I am interested in these events in Zagreb – that the Zagreb media published the name of the gentleman we spoke about today, Milovanović, significantly before the RS police took action and that all people saw it and all of them knew it and that it was a very interesting debate why this name was published and who needed it. But it's also an important detail for those who, in some ways, accuse themselves of not arresting a man, but it's also one of the facts that we have to mention that it wouldn't be left without, I don't know, someone out there doing something without respecting the circumstances that were what they were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21454	I thank the esteemed representative Kalabić. The next is distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21455	Dear President, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I would like to remind you of here perhaps one of the solutions to points 14 and 15. In line with the solution from last session, when you avoided the placing of mandatory agenda items Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Domestic Products, to do some similar thing by breaking the Rules of Procedure and I suggest the conclusion: to postpone the discussion of these two points to 24 months, because I believe that within 24 months we have more important topics to discuss than these two points. You'll get the conclusion in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21456	There are no more applications for discussion. Is there?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21457	No microphone 22
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21458	It's not registered, I'll give you my word. Dear Representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21459	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, honored guests, I have an intervention at item number nine of this updated agenda. It concerns the proposal for a law on minor perpetrators of criminal offences and the criminal protection of children and minors. It's the Council of Ministers' law, one of the few laws that came to us from the Council of Ministers and we have... now required to get it off the agenda. I know this is a mandatory item of the agenda, but since we have here an explanation that I think we should respect, given that this is a law that... does not have some degree of urgency, and it has great importance for all citizens in BiH, that a significant number of NGOs participated in it... and that I understand from this memo from the Ministry does not do so because... wants a minister or someone from the Ministry, but that they do so at the request of these NGOs. That's one thing. Other things. If we look at some of these dates, you see, this memo came to Parliament 23.10. The law arrived, I think, on the 17th, and the Constitutional Commission was considering it 30. There was a short date somewhere, and if he had been on the Constitutional Commission, I believe the result of today's agenda would be different, but to cut the story short. I propose - not to take it off but just to extend it for the next session, and in the meantime, the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of State, says what it has to say, which is why..., since I don't see anyone from the Ministry today. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, here, I ask that the law be withdrawn from the agenda, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21461	Have you finished, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21462	I did.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21463	Eh, thank you. I must say that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, there are mandatory points of the agenda and no one, nor in the College nor in the House, can, unless we agree otherwise to go past the Rules of Procedure. I don't think it's smart, and we're going this hard. So, I think it's wiser to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in the course of the debate, an authorised proposing may withdraw the proposal by the end of the debate. We can, like the House, postpone the plea, etc. But come on, don't make suggestions, we're taking our own time. So what is mandatory in the Rules of Procedure must be on the agenda, and let us show our attitude and relationship in the debate on a concrete agenda point when it comes to order. 23 I thank you all. No more reports. We're moving on to a plea. So, I'm just going to make concrete suggestions, the ones that are business-proposed, in the order they're proposed. Dear Representative Savo Erić suggested that the motion for a decision be included in the agenda. You got it. Please prepare, please prepare. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Five minutes off on the SNSD Club proposal. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21466	Thank you. It might look weird, but we made a deal. So SDP, SDA and SNSD proposals. The proposal is that two points of the agenda go to the next session of Parliament. So, we accept Mr Lagumdžija's proposal completely, means that it will be included in the point 'The aktuelan security situation in BiH, with a special focus on terrorism' and that everything is processed what the SDP has been looking for, and also the proposal to go to a special point proposed by Mr Izetbegović. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21467	Thank you. I'm just gonna have to ask for an explanation. So today we determine the agenda of today's session of the agenda. Does that mean you're withdrawing a proposal to supplement today's agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21468	No microphone 24 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21469	Are you suggesting a conclusion? ... Not the agenda point in which we define such a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21470	So he can't do it without a conclusion. The conclusion is that two points go to the next session. So, not without a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21471	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21472	So the withdrawal implies the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21473	All right, all right. Thank you. Now, I ask you to prepare for a statement or for the vote, as the honourable representative Džaferović would say. Please prepare. First we vote on the proposal of the honourable representative of Sava Erić. The motion for a decision has been made. Please prepare. Vote now! This is some kind of upside-down calculation. Now! [[Common discussion]] It seems our services have also begun to monitor the efficiency of Parliament's work. Please prepare. We reiterate the vote on the proposal for a decision by the honourable representative of Sava Erić. Stand by. Vote! It's no good again. Here, please prepare for the vote now. And it's no good again. At the request of the technical service, while able to put the voting system on hold for 10 minutes. 25 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21477	... The proposal for a conclusion shall refer to the Working Party for the making of amendments to the Rules of Procedure, explaining that it does not comply with the Rules of Procedure. [[no microphone turned on]] I would just like to point out that this house has had a lot of interventions with the Rules of Procedure so far, in the sense that it has violated the Rules of Procedure or changed it into a walk. I think that this conclusion is well-intentioned and that, in the interest of the efficiency of the work of this home, until the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, we would all benefit from this one application of the working conclusion until a new Rules of Procedure enters into force. I think it would be good to keep an eye on him after all.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21478	So, you insist on showing the House about the proposal for a conclusion. I would like to make a statement to the House of Proposal for the conclusion of the distinguished representative Joza Križanović. Please... 26
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21479	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21480	Business intervention, the second deputy president, Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21481	Please, first of all, I do not agree with Mr Križanović that the Rules of Procedure has been broken very often here and that it was done on purpose, because it is simply not true. On the other hand, if we put this item on the agenda, and it is the College that has to decide what should be put to the vote or not, if it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure, see Article 65. ... The Rules of Procedure, where they say, 'At the beginning of the session, an MP like any authorised promoter has the right to request the abandonment of optional points and the proposal of a new one.' In this conclusion, firstly, by putting to the vote a conclusion that is contrary to the Rules of Procedure, would be violated by the Rules of Procedure, and even if they adopted it, they would double-cross it. So please think about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21482	Replica, distinguished representative Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21483	Well, I don't think that was that long ago, at the first constitutive session of this house, the SDP Club left... the session, because Dom violated the direct Rules of Procedure in terms of club representation in certain committees. You remember that well. So, no, I can now list five more examples when the Rules of Procedure has been broken and I can list two or three examples where the House has made a certain decision that was not in line, or which has been amended by the Rules of Procedure. So the argument that we cannot adopt this as a working conclusion, that it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure, does not stand, given the current practice of this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21484	I thank the esteemed representative Križanović. I will, however, agree with what the second vice-president, Dr Milorad Živković, said because of the fact that the Rules of Procedure has been defined that every representative during the session, during the debate, has the right to propose. With this conclusion, we would explicitly restrict that right. With all the good intentions of this conclusion, I think the only option is to refer it to our Committee for the Amendments of the Rules of Procedure, so that this conclusion will not be made out, as well as the proposal for the conclusion of the esteemed representative Jerko Ivanković, with an explanation that I have already given. So it's a mandatory agenda point; and in the debate on points, we'll see what a statement is going to be. Based on this, I find that the Parliamentary House of BiH for the 39th session of the House of Representatives established the following 27 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 37th and 38th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Agents' questions and answers; 3. The request of MPs Niko Lozančić, Beriz Belkić and Milorad Živković to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 4. A request by Azra Hadžiahmetović to consider the draft law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 5. Proposal for a Law on Witness Protection Programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Procedure Act – Proposer Constitutional Commission (second reading); 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Enabling of Obligations on the basis of an old foreign savings account – Proposer of the Council of Ministers (second reading); 8. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 9. Proposal for a law on minor perpetrators of criminal offences and criminal protection of children and minors (first reading); 10. Proposal for a decision by the honourable representative of Sava Erić, who is tasked by the BiH presidency to prepare a report on the cost of the presidency; 11. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the SDA's Opinion on a debate on the State Commission Report on the review of decisions on the naturalisation of foreign citizens in BiH for the period from 1. 1. 2008 to 30. Six. In 2008, with the Opinion of Conclusions; 12. Information from the Council of Ministers regarding the request of Representative Rifat Dolić; 13. Proposal for a conclusion of the Transport and Communications Committee under discussion on the point 'The current situation in RTVBiH, implementation of the reform of the Public TV System in BiH'; 14. Adem Huskić's initiative in connection with the Decision on the restriction of imports of passenger cars, cargo vehicles and car tyres; 15. Representative Branko Dokić's initiative to present BiH Presidency Chairman Haris Silajdžić in his address at the UN General Assembly and at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe; 16. The initiative of Representatives of Remzija Kadrić for the debate at the House on the Resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the goals and measures of the RS from the 14th special session, held on 15th Ten. In 2008. We're moving on to reviewing the adopted agenda. Before we move on to considering the adopted agenda, I would like to inform you about today's work plan. So, today, we're going to be working until 2:00 p.m. when because of the college's commitments, we're going to take a break up to 15 hours that you can use for lunch, and then we're going to continue to work until 6:00 p.m., and after that, because of the college's commitments, we're going to have to interrupt the session, so if we don't finish the session then, we're going to agree on a follow-up session. 28 The First Point of Today’s Agenda Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 37th and 38th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21488	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21489	Honorable representative of Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21490	I got an answer from the 34th session, and you didn't call me among those who got the answer, so I have to read in accordance with Rules of Procedure, Rule 154 (1) and Article 150(4).
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21491	Here's the supplement, the esteemed representative of the Zlatko Lagumdžija, answer. He'll have the opportunity to comment. Who wants to comment on the questions asked? 29 Behold, the esteemed counsel of Lagumdžija answered first.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21492	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am sorry that the Council of Ministers does not have a chairman, given that I tried to get a comment from him at a joint session on the issues I asked at the 34th session of this House and I will not paraphrasise the issues, as regards the inaction of the vijaće Ministers under the obligations given by this Parliament in March of last year on my initiative, and so on. Road maps for a case already known in public as the Algerian group. Namely, I have received, Mr. Chairman, a response from the Council of Ministers which is practically not an answer to my questions. And I just want to make a quick argument because then in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, with Article 155(4), I'm going to practically ask some questions in a different way that are offered by this answer here, in order to finally do something about it. Namely, in the answer I received here, the only culturally threatened me was Article 82 (1) of the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH, which said that I could not be a witness if, by my testimony, I offended the duty of keeping state, military and official secrets and referred me to the Law on the Protection of Secret Information. I want to inform the House that there was no need for them to threaten me like this, because I've already made a statement to the U.S. court, and if the Council of Ministers feels they need to meet her, I'd be happy to give them a statement, so let them act on what they threatened me with. Also, in response, I was told that...... they had a plan of BiH institutions to return persons imprisoned at Guantanamo base, the Roadmap, at the conclusion of this home and that they were 11. Nine last year, so a year ago, they were considering it at the Council of Ministers and not adopting it. So we're not informed at all that after the House concluded they were considering something and they didn't adopt it. I contacted the lawyers mentioned in this document on this issue, because it says directly here that the lawyers, the minors, told our Council of Ministers that there was no need to do anything, but that they were just going on diplomatic activity. You know that at the last session of our home and this second, the House of Nations, I tried to react and the chairman of the Council of Ministers replied that he did not know of any meeting that would be on this topic that I was telling him. You have allowed me, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from commenting further. Unfortunately, the writing of newspapers such as the New York Times, the Washington Post, and the London Independent show that the Council of Ministers' day had a meeting with the ambassador for whom we, from this pay phone, claimed that there was no connection to it..., from which two things can be concluded. Or that the President of the Council of Ministers deceived us or that, no minor problem, that he was actually going to meetings with the foreign ambassador and that he was only talking to them about what they were interested in, and that there was no agenda and especially no obligation, he did not consider himself obliged to talk about what this House had informed him and despite the warnings I had given him. 30 So let me cut the story short. I've already tried to contact some of the leaders of the ruling parties and the competent people for this. And from this I could conclude, and from the answer that I got here, that we could actually get into a new problem from the perspectives of these conclusions of the House, for one simple reason that can happen very easily, and that people are getting to know it, although here from this pay phone they are not again, that it can happen very easily, what the world's most influential media is writing about, that thanks to the work of these lawyers, it can happen very easily to the number of these people and not judge them, that they can be returned here. And one number of people, and if they're tried, it's all, by what I know, on very flimsy feet. In other words, it can be very easy for us to get into a situation that this map of times will now be necessary, because it can happen, that people are currently not at all in any state, but in one military base, if they are released, it can very easily happen that they are returned here, and judging by what I've got, from this answer, we are entering a new problem that no one will actually take responsibility. At least we took some responsibility, whatever responsibility we had for it. But I'm afraid by not taking responsibility, there's actually more damage to the state. So I'd like to ask, so I'm not happy with the answer to question 3. 9, in accordance with Rule 154(1) and Article 155(5) and Article 4(4), I ask three questions. 1. Why does not the Plan (so it is according to the Rules of Procedure, I can ask the question that arises, if you need we can give you instructions from this part of the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21493	Please don't comment on each other. Take care of the weather!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21494	Me, you're right, Mr. Lozančić, thank you. It's my fault, obviously. I was wrong to react at all. 1. Why don't you implement the Plan of BiH institutions' activities for returning persons from the Guantanamo Military Base (Map of Ways) to Parliament's conclusion; 2. Why there was a lack of diplomatic action on this issue on the basis of an agreement with the law team in February 2007, as well as the activities of other ministries at the request of lawyers, because directly in the answer I received followed by these questions; 3. What will the Council of Ministers do immediately (I underline immediately, although no one will come to their door today, but tomorrow could take over the merger with the families of all those six-members who are released without a trial from Guantanamo or freed before the US court, since it is events that can quickly follow, for which our institutions show neither the will nor the willingness to meet them in the interests of the citizens and the state of this country? 31 These are my three questions and I would, here, use the opportunity to thank the minister for being here at all, although I know he's not really the address to be addressed, but this is also more than nothing, is he, considering who should answer for this? There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21495	Thank you to the esteemed representative Lagumdžija. The next is a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21496	Thank you, Chairman. I received a letter called "Responsible Answer", and I would ask my fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to read this memo with attention, somewhat shorter than three pages, which really expresses and raises concern. I particularly think it causes the need for this Parliament's response, because as the author in this letter says, 'In an attempt to explain and answer the question', they have tried to share with parlament some doubts, i.e. concerns, and also to ask Parliament, as it says in the end,'some major questions to which they expect the answer of the responsible state institutions'.' I appreciate it so much that it is of particular importance that we refer to this letter, or this letter... as it deserves it. When it comes to answering the parliamentary question, I will only remind you that my question was: 'When the day, the month and the year will finally be imploded the laws adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly in 2005. 'years.' I don't have days here, months, years. Therefore, I did not get an answer to the parliamentary question. But here, let me make a few comments about what's called an answer. First, this letter said that, among other things, it reminds us of the Board of Directors, i.e. the chairman of the Public TV System Management Board, that the roof law, as it stands here – I will remind you that this is not a roof law, because there is no law at the lower levels of the government relating to the Public TV System, but to public TV services – adopted in 2005 and that the entity's obligation to comply with entity laws within two months, so since November 2005. Furthermore, it recalls, since my question referred to the Corporation, that there are several reasons for delaying the establishment of a corporation around which there is a lot of confusion and, as it informs us in this letter, the State Ministry of Transport and Communications and the OHR explicitly said that the existing System Management Board, which already exists, does not have a mandate as a transitional body to make large decisions, as it writes, such as the formation of a new legal entity. And of course, this also causes a question that is large, medium, medium, large, etc., i.e. small decisions for which the Management Board of the Public TV System has a mandate, which is good to know, not to ask such questions as I asked. Furthermore, it says here that in such a situation the Inter-međuemiterski Expert Team for the establishment of the Corporation acted. So, despite the fact that they had no mandate, as they say here, they formed this expert team formed by the Management Board of the Public TV System and which is tasked with preparing 'The Draft Statutes of the Corporation', etc. And then, beyond that, he says that the registration procedure itself reminds us, for the registration procedure itself, it is necessary for the Board of the System to adopt the statutes, that there is an authorised person. I will only remind you, therefore there is an Expert Team for the Statute, there is a designated person with the office of director of the future Corporation, it is Mr. Drago Marić. Furthermore, it says here that, when it comes to suspicions and fears, one reason why the Corporation is not established is that, among other things, different solutions, i.e. doubts about how marketing income is distributed and the exemption from payment of rTV fees. In addition, it is elaborated which cases of tax exemption and another major problem, as a request for exemption from payment of the fee is submitted. I just want to remind you that these are the reasons that we have received in response to the question, the reasons, so why is not the Corporation, or the Public TV System established, which points to a lot of conclusions and convinces that the Law on the Public TV System adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly is treated as a law a la carte. I will only remind you here that, among other things, in the answer is what is called the answer, among other things, and the corporation in a direct relationship, i.e. the formation of a corporation in relation to the issue of functioning the House of Sale, as one of the vital functions of the future Public Service Corporation. We are in one of the memos and information that we received from the Management Board of the Public TV Service to learn that there is a v.d. Houses of sale, which, among other things, we pointed to as absurd during the discussion when we had a debate on this topic. Among other things, here is the concern of the Management Board of the System with regard to a number of asymmetric solutions in the Law on the Croatian Federation of BiH and guides, among other things, at the position of the RAC, i.e. in some way the functions of the RAC, which is of course not an obstacle to the establishment and implementation of the state law that we have adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21497	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21498	I just want to draw your attention to the fact that here, among other things, by dealing with federal law and implementation, it mentions that federal law prohibits the denial of genocide committed in Srebrenica, which provides for the existence of programming restrictions of the Public Service in a series of international conventions and directives. I ask you, Chairman, with the attention of the College, to act according to this letter, because as it says here, in the end, they have asked some large questions to which they expect the answer of the competent state institutions. Since my question concerned the implementation of the law adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly, I think we should apply this letter in a special way. Otherwise, I did not get an answer which day, months and years will be implemented a law adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly in November 2005. Thank you. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21499	Thank you. No more reports. There is a comment for the distinguished representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21500	... intervention, if possible. [[You can't hear the beginning.]] We here, I have consulted, extremely weakly hear certain MPs because of their nature that speak silently. Next, eventually, when some material is read, they're going to hang up on this microphone, so I'd like you to ask for technical services, they probably have the possibility, to turn this sound up for us a little bit so we can track it, because in the meantime, when anyone is sneaking through here, we don't hear the one who's talking, so we can't even understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21501	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to comment on the answers received? Dear Representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21502	I thank you, Chairman. I want to comment on two questions, on the answers to two questions that I received from the 35th session,... also, another question that I received here on the table. Because of the magnitude of the answer itself, I have no ability to comment. If necessary, I reserve the right to comment on that response at the next session. What I want to comment on is the fact (the answer to the question I received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) that BiH, or the Presidency, has not made a decision on the formation of cultural centres, two in Europe, one in the United States, according to data from the Presidency, although I have completely different information. However, here is the official foreign ministry's response and found that the initiative is very good and will, in this regard, come up with and deliver to the BiH Presidency a proposal on the need to set up cultural and information centres in the world, since we have 1,300,000 of our citizens who are outside BiH. I appreciate that it's a good assessment of this initiative and I'll monitor whether the Foreign Ministry will do what it says. What I want, too, to comment on is the answer to the question I asked: 'What have you done so far and what are you planning to do so that foreign shopping centres in their shops must have a certain percentage of domestic products produced in BiH.' Unfortunately, the answer to this question by the Council of Ministers, interpreting the provisions of two laws, the Law on Foreign Direct Investment Policy in BiH and the Foreign Trade Policy Act, states that BiH has no instruments, given the provisions of these two laws, that it can in any way commit foreign trade centres – means trade, not production – that certain BiH products contain... that it has policies with these products and certain findings giving some recommendations. 34 In this sense, I am truly expressing dissatisfaction with this situation and I am seeking the Council of Ministers' action to find ways, not to slave the systems and laws that already exist, which may be overcome and to be active in this matter, especially because we know that we have a CEFTA issue here, the issue of protection of domestic production, the issue of deficits in Bosnia and Herzegovina, means a very current issue, and we need to find a solution to these issues. In this regard, I expect further activities of the Council of Ministers to address this issue. So, the protection of domestic production, i.e. the sale of products, domestic products in foreign shopping centres in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21503	Thank you. Are there any more reported comments received? There isn't. We're moving on to asking parliamentary questions. I've got a report. Dear Representative Mirko Okolić ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please electronically and we will, I already have.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21505	Here, I believe in technique, I did sign up really on time first. Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask a parliamentary question that I will very briefly explain, which is that lately we have been talking about foreign investments in BiH of all kinds, that, in some cases, through certain discussions, it is often spoken with, truth, one tendency, or one conclusion that in BiH, it is mainly investing in public consumption, or for non-productive purposes. There are few of those investments by the international community where it would bring production and development policy to BiH and where our economy, along with international investors, would rise to the level of that country which could tomorrow, and on that basis, meet the conditions for EU entry, because I am also an eyewitness, as everyone else, that it is rarely invested in production capacities, and that every day there are no certain commercial markets, here is one that Mr. MP spoke of before me. I'm asking the Council of Ministers. - I ask the BiH Council of Ministers to provide me with information on all international investments in BiH between 1996 and 2008, under which conditions and by entities. Investments are classified by an economic and productive development character, and investments in public consumption, i.e. for all other purposes. When I said this by type of investment, it is known why, because I already explained it, and when I told the entities to make this comparison, and to see which entity is more or less invested when it comes to what we are primarily interested in, and that is what we are interested in international investment in the productive and development character because this increases the security and stability of BiH and because it better meets the conditions for joining the EU, because BiH will work better. 35 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21506	Thank you. The following has been announced by the distinguished representative Rifat Dolić, and let the distinguished representative Sadik Ahmetović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21507	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have two parliamentary questions. The first question is the minister of human rights and refugees at the BiH Council of Ministers. - What can you do to protect the elemental human rights of the citizen Šumić Mehmed, son of Latif, located in Blagaj... bb, in Bosanski Novi, Novi Grad, who is at the request of the wife of the Pleme and with the help of the manager of the Missing Persons Department, and now the lawyer Bajramović Esad, the municipal court in Bihac, according to Judge Karabegović Jasminki, by solving number R-II-16100 of 3. Six. In 2002, illegally declared dead and since then, Šumić Mehmed is officially dead, even though he is a living person, without the right to identity and valid personal documents? According to this man and his family's civic performance, I made a formal request three months ago for the formal treatment of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, the municipal court in Bihac and the Parliament of Novi Grad Municipality, the Bosnian Novi municipality. Ever since then, it's been...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21508	I'd like your attention, please, if we could listen to our colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21509	Since then, the municipality of Novi Grad, Bosanski Novi, has legally confirmed the identity of Šumić Mehmed and informed me in writing. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and the Bihac Municipal Court, in my knowledge, have so far done nothing officially, so that Šumić Mehmed is still a sick person, with no home, no identity and no elemental human rights. In this case, it is unequivocally organised crime, with the intention of illegally exercising the right to a Shechid pension, declaring a living man dead and abuse of a position for the benefit of a blood relative. Please take legal steps so that Šumić Mehmed will be able to mentally and officially return to life and consume the rights that belong to him. The second issue is the issue of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, very briefly. - What you have done to protect the remaining assets of BiH, its companies and citizens in the countries of ex Yugoslavia and why, not after more than three months after the conclusion of this house, the Council of Ministers has not provided information on the state of the BiH, its firms and branches in the countries of ex Yugoslavia and planned measures to protect and return it to legal owners in BiH. 36 I think there has been so much talk about this so far that there is no need to further explain but there are really incomprehensible reasons for this much slowness and indolence in trying to protect the rest of this property from further alienation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21510	I thank the honourable representative, Dolić. The next is Honourable representative Sadik Ahmetović, and let the distinguished representative Bajazit Jašarević be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21511	Dear President and dear colleagues, I will use this time of parliamentary questions to get to know you or to ask you to sign this letter... to support this letter that I wrote to Mr Jelk Kacin, an MP in the European Parliament, and it refers to his interventions in resolutions concerning the return of refugees, especially in the Srebrenica municipality and his intervention that: July 11th – The Day of Remembrance of the death of Bošnjak Srebrenica, will be declared the International Day of Remembrance of Srebrenica in Europe. I have a list of MPs here, so those who want to sign this letter can sign it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21512	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Bajazit Jašarević, and let the distinguished representative Sadik Bahtić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21513	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I again ask the question of the chairman of the BiH presidency, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the finance and vault ministers. - When will the Council of Ministers submit the 2009 Draft Budget to the BiH presidency? When will the BiH Presidency submit the draft budget for 2009 to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly? In accordance with Article 128. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives of BiH and Article 10. The law on the financing of BiH institutions, the BiH presidency is required to submit a draft budget for the following year by the 1.11. Thank you. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21514	I thank the esteemed representative Jašarević. The next is the distinguished representative Sadik Bahtić, and let the distinguished representative Savo Erić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21515	Thank you. For the tenth time today, I will ask the Council of Ministers about the assets of the former SK, and I hope that this law will come in the process and past the Council of Ministers. - When will the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the conclusion of this Parliament and a series of answers to my parliamentary questions (I have received three responses from the Attorney's Office), write down and return the assets of the former SK that the SDP illegally took, usurped, robbed, and benefited and rented? I received three responses from the BiH Ombudsman that show that all former SKK assets used by the SDP are managed as social property, it is given to the use of the SK. So, neither the SK nor before the war entered, nor the current SDP and I can imagine that BiH institutions this year... cca 31 million for the accommodation of BiH institutions. [[You don't understand.]] The expenditures are planned, and the state has property, it has... from Klamuda to Bihac, to Sarajevo, to return it to the state, to settle the institutions. A purely economic reasoning, morally, legally, and I hope that this issue will be resolved. And for the third time, I hope, today is the third time, twice I've asked questions about the Algerian case. - I ask the BiH Council of Ministers to respond today and all documents related to the deportation of the Algerian group. Reason: The public has recently been in the media at the meetings of the BiH Parliament, and today, you have seen, you have had the opportunity to hear and see that the launch is approaching, which is good, the case of the alžirski group in the Washington court and how the honourable MP, colleague Lagumdžija, here in Parliament and through its controlled media wants to wash away from this case. He wants to shift his shame and shame to others, and on their return he tries to collect cheap political points which, in my opinion, is hypocrisy, sad, and pathetic, and sad, when it is known that it was Lagumdžija who made the decision, he delivered the Algerian group, which he himself confirmed in the "60 minutes" show of October 27th, when he finally admitted that he had delivered the Algerian group, and that by not delivering the Algerian group at that time, it would mean, hear: "The danger of BiH being introduced into a new civil war." decidno said. It is good that Lagumdžija finally made a public and clear announcement about the war in BiH. According to what he said: civil war was in BiH! It is well known that so far Lagumdžija has defended himself from having nothing to do with the decision to extradite the Algerian group, and is now speaking the opposite. Good thing he went, made a statement, that he was a witness, I'm not going who I don't have a clue about, but that the person who's the most responsible is going, and the statement says he did it under the pressure and threat of the United States so America doesn't leave us and that we don't get into a new civil war. ... 38
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21516	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21517	The Lagumdžija now presents himself to the public as the defender and savior of the alžirski group, acting in the style of 'cadiya and delivering, cadija defends you'. I want to say this very briefly. The public also knows the key thing that Lagumdžija was at the time a key person in the delivery as chairman of the Council of Ministers and Foreign Ministers. Also, skillfully avoid that to give the answer that before that... by subtracting bh. The citizenship of the alžirski group that Lagumdžija has done through the SDP staff of Tomislav Lim and by taking away citizenship from the alžirak group Lagumdžija created the conditions for deportation to the Guantanamo camp. I've been asking this question about the Algerian group case for the third time. I want the Council to answer me, and all the necessary documents have... and answers from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Algeria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21518	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Savo Erić, and let the distinguished representative Husein Nanić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21519	I ask the question: - When will this House discuss the 2009 Draft Budget and fulfill all those promises that we discussed during the adoption of the last budget and, in particular, to turn the emphasis on renting rooms? Here we have a magnificent building in which we have introduced furniture, and no immigration has yet been done, and therefore the MPs here have not taken up their rooms that they need to make the work effect better. And next thing you know, when we plan to adopt this budget, is it January, March or maybe April next year? And we know that we've come to the conclusion that we're going to adopt with legal basis and we're going to adopt it this year, so it would be a transparent and efficient budget spending for next year. And I have a feeling that this budget is going to be very difficult to adopt, that there will be problems, and I suggest we get into this point as soon as possible so that we don't let us discuss the budget again in March as we did last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21520	I didn't understand who the question was from your question. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21521	I've asked you a question, and you know who you should ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21522	I will answer you immediately, if I am referred to you, because I will take advantage of the business opportunity to give you an oral answer to your representative's question. The draft budget will be included in the agenda as soon as it arrives from the mandated proposing, the BiH presidency, and will be adopted once the majority in parliament has agreed to adopt the draft budget. The next is the distinguished representative Husein Nanić, and let the distinguished representative Jozo Križanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21523	I thank you, Chairman. I would like to ask a parliamentary question today for the professional services of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, given that several months ago, as MPs, we received one questionnaire to answer the question: How do we want to obtain materials related to working in the Parliamentary Assembly, do we want to receive electronic or traditional paper form? There have been two years in which I am a member of this House and I am trying as an MP, I don't know how others do it, that in the Secretariat and the committees of the House where I agree that I want to get materials in electronic form and that the existing way of delivering materials is impractical, inefficient, uneconomic, etc. In particular, this refers to the materials delivered by the commissions, the minutes from the sessions, the records from the commissions, so there's a case that I, I don't know how the others, get the same material by five, six times the fax, commission reports, commission opinions, and it's a game without borders. I also stress the need to point out in this high home the need for wireless internet to exist here in this building, wireless, which would have the possibility that we MPs, who want to use it, that we can connect to use anywhere, since we are limited to that one room in which we do not have, here, or the Internet. There's no Internet in my club that you can use these technologies. That's why I'm really asking questions to the community service, I think that's their jurisdiction. - Will they finally do a project of supplying material in electronic form and allow MPs, who want to receive the same material in this way, to right and use it and will Wireless be installed for wireless use of the Internet in Parliament's building? With one note, I asked our foreign ministry, which you expect it to be the most advanced, to use these technologies, because it communicates with the world, etc., when we had a debate on the state of the DKP network to deliver in electronic form due to 40 easier preparations for the session, etc. And to intervention and through the Secretariat, you can't even get an answer, not where to get the material. In that sense, it means from professional services, really organize yourself, and I demand that I get this answer as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21524	I thank the esteemed representative, Nanić. The next is distinguished representative Jozo Križanović, and let the distinguished representative Martin Raguž be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21525	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really rarely take the opportunity to ask a representative question, because here are these colleagues and colleagues who do so very zealously get answers either with great delay or who are quite dissatisfied with the answers. Maybe even we contribute to that condition. I'd like to point to one, again, possible violation of the Rules of Procedure. Article 155 states that the question is raised in writing and that the question and answer do not cross one A-4 page. We often come out here with very complicated questions in which we are looking for elaborates, not answering one simple question. So I would also like to ask and suggest to the College that we preserve this institution in terms of asking current questions to which we can get quick and simple current answers and prefer more this practice of oral answers. That is why neither my question today, or the initiative, will be a classical parliamentary issue, but the address to our College in the sense that this House of Representatives is really asking the College to ensure better technical conditions of work at the sessions of this House. Here, first of all, I mean the sound, we have observations that even colleagues can't hear, is, when something is explained, the concentration falls, we can't follow the session, and we even have comments from journalists that we simply can't follow our discussions. Also, I think something should be done with this electronic vote, that is, this electronics, and especially on the issue of lighting and air conditioning in this. I think that, here, I say is not a question to the House, but if we can turn this into an initiative, that this is the Rules of Procedure, all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21526	I thank the esteemed representative Križanović. The next is the distinguished representative Martin Raguž, and let the distinguished representative Velimir Jukić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21527	My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, the chairman. There were similar questions, but in part, but here I'll read it. 41 - What did the BiH Council of Ministers do after the conclusion of the 4th House adopted on 20 February 2008 which was related to the adoption of the law on the budget of BiH institutions and international commitments for this year? I remind you of the conclusion that the Council of Ministers tasked the House with forming a programme, namely a plan of activities to resolve the accommodation of BiH institutions. So it was a program and a plan, not some improvisations, to cut rent costs and what your rent costs are right now. I also ask for an answer regarding earlier conclusions, and I will remind you: at a session of this house since 29.3. and 4.4.2007, where the Council of Ministers was asked to make a proposal for a schedule of state agencies, institutions according to their establishment plan, which has never been delivered in response, I have checked this out, here for a year towards this home. So we ask that we be given a review of all the seats of state agencies and institutions, as well as a proposal for a future schedule of state institutions to be formed according to the action plan. And I ask the College, since this is about the conclusions of the House of Representatives, to update the answers in correspondence with the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21528	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Velimir Jukić, and let the distinguished representative Denis Bećirović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21529	A brief question to the Council of Ministers: - What is the BiH Council of Ministers doing to implement its obligations to select and fill the vacancy in management, management, administrative or supervisory committees of BiH institutions within the prescribed deadline? It is known that in several BiH institutions, we have certain places that have been set aside, so in management, management or boards of directors and supervisory boards, and I think it is necessary for the Council of Ministers to speed up all activities in order to carry out these necessary fill-ups, which, of course, put into office certain boards, boards of directors and, of course, carry out the necessary elections and complete management. Because it is illusory to expect an institution to do well and successfully, in accordance with the law, unless the assumptions are met. And the most important assumption, or one of the most important assumptions, is to select and appoint, appoint, by law, the intended way, management and the board of directors or supervisory board. I think this, I have some information that this is not an individual case but that there are several institutions with such anomalies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21530	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21531	I have three very clear and precise questions for the minister of security at the BiH Council of Ministers. I have to say that I didn't plan to ask questions today, but here's when Mr. Bahtić insists on some topic that he has been enlightened to the end, I have to ask one question to get a round picture of the case of the Algerian group. First question: - What was the concrete role of Federation of BiH President Safet Halilović (Strank for BiH), Rama Masleše, Federation of BiH Interior Minister (Strank for BiH) and BiH Presidency member Beriz Belkić (Strank for BiH) in the case of the Algerian Group? The second question: - In particular, did the three persons mentioned above oppose the arrest of the Algerian group? The third question: - If not, why did none of those three oppose the arrest of the Algerian group? I would ask Minister Sadović that, indeed, within the business period, as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, answer this parliamentary question, and there are stenograms from the session, etc., it is not difficult to answer this question, so that we have a round-up picture of what Mr Bahtić is talking about persistently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21532	Thank you. There are no more applications to ask parliamentary questions and I am concluding the second item of the agenda. Moving to the third item of the agenda: Ad. 3. The request of MPs Niko Lozančić, Beriz Belkić and Milorad Živković to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in BiH institutions by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure On 22 October, a proposal for this law was submitted with a request for an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate on a request for an emergency procedure. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. 43 We move to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. A request by Azra Hadžiahmetović to consider the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21535	Thank you, Chairman. The proposal to put this law on the agenda, and by emergency procedure, here, I will try briefly to focus on why the emergency procedure and during the debate on the content itself, eventually, can later provide more explanations. Namely, the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH's BiH institutions has regulated women in maternity leave fees to be paid according to the place of payment of contributions. Clarifications for work, should be pointed out to contribute on the basis of pension, health and social protection are paid to entities. In entities, i.e. in the Federation of BiH, certain contributions are paid into the canton budgets. Until the adoption of this law, the right to compensation during maternity leave has been achieved under the Law on the work of BiH, which allows the employer to pay maternity benefits at the height of the salary during maternity leave. Let me just mention that most institutions are in practice with their documents, so almost all state institutions have allowed their internal rules and made full compensation for the duration of maternity leave for up to a year. By entering into force of the Law on Payments, i.e. by applying Article 35 of the same law, the foster parents who are employed in BiH institutions literally lost overnight without any compensation and were deprived of all contributions. The BiH Finance Ministry has not delivered a warning yet, a written warning to BiH institutions in which compensation must be paid, but all payrolls with Federation employees have returned with a request to leave out women on maternity leave. At the same time, women from the RS who are on maternity leave remained on the list of the ministry. And everything was done by phone instructions. Families belonging to the most vulnerable segments of the BiH population do not receive any compensation for the second month, regardless of their continued working relationship with BiH institutions. With 44 cases of people without any other sources of income, it is necessary to resolve their status as soon as possible. The emergency procedure is fully justified, because each further waiting to solve this problem worsens materially, psychologically, and very often the health situation of both women and newborns. Also, the fact is that it is a problem with the concrete and current consequences that have already begun and which are already taking place. An emergency procedure is justified in any case, especially in the case of labour and material law protection of one of the most endangered segments of the BiH population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21536	I thank the distinguished representative Hadžiahmetović. The following has been reported by the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21537	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, we could have called about the parliamentary initiative, and we need to discuss the request here. And not to go into the measure of the proposed amendments and the addition of this law, to explain to us the reason why this law is proposed by 127, to say how much this problem has been going on in this country for years and why we have to deal with it today. In order to be able to identify myself with this request, I should have arguments, why this procedure and what is so urgent. And since she was going into the measure of this thing, you're going to let me say a few words about it, even though the chairman interrupted me from breaking the Rules of Procedure, because apparently the promoter didn't stick to it. So this is where the apples and pears are mixed, so I don't get to be malignier. As the MP said last time that I didn't write that amendment bill and the additions to the Central Bank Act, that I'm not saying now that you didn't write this law that someone else wrote it to you, because, you wrote, you would certainly respect the law and the system in BiH that doesn't chase things, where you know how many up to 30 days and who's in charge of solving maternity, or solving sick leave, and who solves sick after 30 days, where contributions are paid, where the place of residence is, etc., etc., that I'm not getting into the measure of this. But first, in order for me to decide on this, I should know why he's here and what's so urgent here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21538	Dear representative and proposer of this law, i.e. the applicant of Zatjeva, Azra Hadžiahmetović. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21539	Here, I'm part maybe, maybe it's missed to hear it, colleague Živković, but let me repeat it. It is true that this law, in the provisions of this law in Article 35, does not formally change anything in relation to the situation so far. But I'll just remind you that at a time when there was no law on wages at the state level this matter was also left to the employers on regulation. And most of the state institutions have mostly dealt with this problem equally. After the adoption of the Payments Act and the provision of a member of the 35th employee in state institutions who have the right to compensation under maternity leave have been brought into an unequal position. In fact, contributions are paid to the entity's budget in the RS and births are paid 100% of the amount during maternity leave. In the Federation, it contributes by this kind of absence, i.e. work relationship or right to realise and compensation is paid from the budget of cantons that regulated this matter differently. Some cantons don't even have this matter regulated at all, so for example, A family that works in state institutions if it comes from the Posavina Canton has 0 benefits based on maternity leave. The second canton may have 60%, etc. I just want to mention that this law, or this bill, is the first thing that requires an emergency procedure is to correct the injustice that has been applied for two months, and secondly, that all the families employed in state institutions are brought into the same treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21540	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the second vice-president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21541	Thank you. This injustice -- if we can call it an injustice, we can leverage it -- it's not from two months ago, but since the BiH institution is this way it's arranged. And let's be honest and honest to say that it's decided by decisions. It's possible, so it's not from two months ago and it has nothing to do with urgency. We can raise the question whether all women in BiH are unequal. Also, as we can open the question: if there is an MP from the Posavina Canton in this House and according to your proposal, he has the right to have a certain kind of compensation, he lives in the same house with his sister who provides in the Posavina Canton a completely different relationship to this. So you're suggesting that in this House, or institutions all have the same thing, and not in Posavina Canton. And to remind you, today in the paper, if you have read, Federation Health Minister Safet Omerović proposes to the Federation and Parliament a basic package of health rights that should equalise insurance rights within the framework of compulsory health insurance in all cantons. What you've been saying is the tour and he's proposing it for the next session of the Federation Parliament, as is another area, and that's about the tax, the Income Tax Act, same as 46 since the new year applied to all the cantons in the Federation of BiH, unlike what has been done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21542	Business intervention, the first deputy president of Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21543	I really don't know why anxiety and so burning some reactions. So this is where we discussed the procedure. The promoter proposed an emergency procedure and gave an explanation as to why he gave the emergency procedure. We went into debate about the measure of things etc. We could talk about human rights, equality, inequality. So, we're just discussing the procedure. The promoter made his arguments. Whoever accepts them will raise his hand for the procedure; whoever does not accept them will not.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21544	Dear representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21545	First, the false allegation is that something has changed in the last two months. It is true that two months ago, the Law on State-level wages entered into force, the first time that regulated employment incomes. And secondly, the correction of the false quote of the example that you mentioned; you took an example of two people who work, one of whom works in state institutions and is subject to the provisions of the Law on Salaries, and the other does not work and does not apply to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21546	Correction of the incorrect allegations, second vice-president Milorad Živković, twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21547	I'm just comparing it in case your bill goes through, one of which would be compensated for maternity leave from the state budget, and the other one would receive compensation for sick leave from Posavina Canton. It's not even settled there. So I wouldn't get her sister, and the one that would be here would be getting, and I ask where is the equality between two people who have the same residence, in the same canton and living, even in the same house, hypothetical example. On the other hand, although we are against this law for simple reasons, we will be in favor of this request so that we may be against your proposal and, then, if there is a need to open up a debate on the very scale of this law and all that we have said, that we may once again deepen and see your reasons why you have proposed this law, and then maybe it will be clearer for everyone. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21548	Thank you. No more logs on this agenda. I'm closing the debate. [[Common discussion]] We'll continue when my colleagues apologize a little. We're going to the fifth point, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Witness Protection Programme in BiH (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21551	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, in BiH we have laws on the protection of witnesses at the level of the BiH state and we have two entity laws, I suppose there is such a thing at the Brcko District of BiH level and we have one Law on the Witness Protection Programme at BiH level. And this law is actually a novel of this Witness Protection Act. So one is the matter of protection, it exists on an entity level, and another is the matter of a concrete Witness Protection Program. Since things are being printed here with the obligations of BiH under international legal acts, according to the conventions that BiH has adopted, given that this programme is extremely expensive, because it refers to several methods of witness protection, starts from physical protection to identity protection, changes in identity, and also to the migration within BiH and beyond the borders of BiH to other addresses, this law proposes some solutions that allow this law to be adopted, i.e. being enforceable, and this law opens up the possibility that the Witness Protection Programme, which is installed by this law, is used by all courts in BiH for certain crimes. Now, in order to cover, perhaps even some discussions, I will honestly say here: we have, during the debate on the Constitutional Commission, had several amendments, i.e., in fact, three amendments by Mr Živković, which he basically requires to limit this programme exclusively to criminal acts that are otherwise provided for by this law, when it comes to the 48 coverage of this law, which are crimes against BiH's integrity, against the values of protected international law, therefore war crimes, etc., and criminal acts of organised crime. And there is one group of other crimes that can, by law, be sentenced to prison for three years or more severe punishment, but which are exclusively being conducted or within the jurisdiction of the BiH Court of Justice. This is therefore the objective of the amendments that were before the Constitutional Commission. And we couldn't accept on the Constitutional Commission of this amendment, they were renewed because this is not about the transfer of entity jurisdiction to the BiH state, this is the original obligation of BiH. Entities can't pass laws like this. We conducted one debate, although outside the session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, directly with experts who worked on making this law, that was listened to by my colleagues, I do not see them here, nor Mr. Prodanović, nor Mr. Kalabić, and I suggest that this law be adopted without amendments proposed by Mr. Milorad Živković. Here, that would be what I have to say for now. It is a very useful law, it will allow for safer quality of evidence in criminal proceedings before the Court of BiH and before the courts in BiH, and that is something that we in BiH need, and I think that this programme offered by this law represents something that is actually a summation of everything that we today in the modern world have on this topic. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21552	Thank you. The second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković, is next reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21553	Thank you, Chairman. Let me remind you that we, in our first reading, expressed our reservations according to the parts of the laws that are changing, and we made amendments accordingly, and we felt that amandman I i returning to the constitutional framework of this law, in its original form, as it was adopted. amandman ii only clarifies Article 3 and does not make any particular changes, only further explains it, and amandman III, I see no reason why it was not accepted, probably has too much explanation for it, has only accelerated the procedure, because it has reduced the time to meet this committee and to decide on the issue. That would make this law more effective. So, I understand that the Constitutional Commission under the amandman i has determined as defined, but it seems to me that amandman ii, in particular Amendment III, could have been accepted. We in the SNSD believe that the amandman i particular is very important and I ask this Parliament to have that in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21554	Thank you. Appreciated, 49
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21555	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21556	What's the matter? Discussion, replica, what is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21557	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21558	Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21559	Well, so be it. So, I would ask all my colleagues, I said here last time in the debate, I asked my colleagues to check the content of this law with those whom they trust. Because we need this law in BiH, it would be very ugly to get into a situation today if we didn't have this law. It's not about the transfer of jurisdiction. This is the original jurisdiction of BiH and this programme and this law does not establish any obligations under any BiH court or entity courts. This law did not say anything – he must do it and that court and that! This law builds this programme and invites interested people to address this problem under conditions and as prescribed by this law. This is offering opportunities, among other things, to entity courts. Therefore, the Witness Protection Programme offers the possibility for witnesses in the case of entity courts to use the programme. I think... that it's not any transfer of jurisdiction, because it doesn't establish any obligation, establishes only the right. And that's why I'm asking my colleague Živković to give up his amendments. There's no obligation of an entity court here. Will someone ask? We don't know what can happen tomorrow. I think that in this country all people should be allowed to use this program, because this will be, as far as I can see, the only program and this will be the only quality program. After all, it is not possible for anyone in BiH to create a programme with inoelement other than the BiH states. I guess that's what we agree on. No Niko will be able to move witnesses from one BiH address abroad in any court in BiH without this programme. And that will appear as a necessity. We also judge organised crime at the Court of BiH, we also judge at cantonal courts in the first degree, and at the Supreme Courts of Entity in the second degree. That's why I plead. I'm even willing to consider this possibility, if that's your problem. So, as far as I'm concerned, there's a minister here, let them say their position. Here are the people who have been working. I don't mind writing here that these crimes are in the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of BiH, but there must be no point. Due to the same standard in protecting human rights, it must be possible for everyone else in BiH, including other courts in BiH, if they want to have the right to apply before the programme. 50 Therefore, we cannot bear one witness simply because he is testifying before the Court of BiH in one position, and the same witness when he testifys before the cantonal court puts him in another position and the same witness. It must be provided with the same standard and the same program. And if you, Mr. Živković, I am not taxing at all now, so you're willing to be ready for us on this trail, here, protecting and the rights of the entity in this area, and wanting to get this law, to consider this possibility, then we might be able to discuss some compromise that, say, accept your amendments. Look out, Amendment III, I beg you, at least give it up! These are the deadlines that require certain things to be done at a certain time. Experts estimate it's 5 and it's 20 days, and they suggest it's 2 and it's 10 days. Let's leave it to the people who do it. I didn't even want to get into that. That committee needs to meet, he needs to do his job. Here, you see for yourself if it's enough 2 or it takes 5 days. And I don't think that amendment, as an amendment, is at all controversial, doesn't go into the essence. He's an organisational-technical nature, but I think it takes this time, so 5 in one case and 20 in another case, like deadlines that would be left to that commission to do their part of the job. I say, I repeat, I'm ready to make an example of myself. both in Article 1 and in Article 2 of this provision concerning acts of the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of BiH. But on the condition that, for example, in Article 2, if your amendment were accepted, then Article 2 would read as follows: 'The protection programme applies when one of the crimes is proven', and you say 'which are in charge', here the law puts an end to it, and you say 'which are in the jurisdiction of the Court of BiH, and that', and then you leave these same crimes. It may be so, but provided that there is a clear position (2) of this member, so that it is said: 'Under the terms and conditions of this law, the Witness Protection Programme can also be applied when one of the crimes in the position (1)', so these are the same criminal acts of this article, 'which are in the jurisdiction and other courts in BiH'. We just have to keep it open. That might be some way out. I'm asking you to consider this matter, so let's agree later on on how we're going to get out of this situation on business. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21560	Replica, the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21561	Since some of us aren't experts in this area, we're asking people we trust, as you said. I've asked people who think they know this problem better than I do. The lady is called Indira Rogić and she is the head of the Directorate for Legal and Staff Affairs at the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia, who has stated that Article 1 if we were to change, otherwise, there would be a transfer of competence from the institutions of the RS to the institutions of BiH and that she is also expert in determining how long it takes for the Commission to do the work in the Commission, and that the Commission for inclusion in the Witness Protection Programme, as well as its decision on the application of the Protection Programme, since cases of witness facing threats, endangerment of life, health, freedom, physical integrity, property, needs urgent treatment. So she felt as an expert on the fact that these deadlines were too long and that given the specificity of this type of action that it was necessary to react more urgently. And I've made amendments about it. 51 When we talk about business opportunities, we have no other amendments except for what I suggested. I don't know how we could modify any other proposed amendments, so we can get in line with the Rules of Procedure to some modification proposal. We have the opportunity to assign our Minister Sadović to come up with another solution, with the agreement of the minstarstvo, which I mentioned. But then that would be the proposal of some other law, and it seems to me it would take us a little bit of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21562	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. I am concluding the debate on point 5.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21563	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21564	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21565	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21566	Well, you can, Minister. Although, you're picking up a little faster. Dear Minister of Security Tarik Sadović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21567	Dear Chairman, deputies, ladies and gentlemen, here we have heard... the importance of this law. The basis for this law exists in international conventions which this country has ratified and should apply. So it's the Convention to Fight Transnational Organized Crime brought to the UN, as well as the UN Merida Convention on Corruption. Therefore, the existing Act on the Protection of Witnesses and which has shown certain shortcomings in practice. Since the Witness Protection Department is the only one, let me say, a specialized organisation is part of the SIPA and since this administrative organisation is part of the Ministry of Security, I assure you that representatives of the Department, i.e. SIPA and representatives of the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice of BiH, participated in this law, etc. and other competent institutions and that they unanimously passed this bill. Believe me, when I told the director of SIPA Mr. Mirko Luić that he was having trouble passing this law, he asked me, "Why does he have it because everything is in line?" But here, there seems to be some problems. I don't know if Mrs Indira Rogić, who works at the RS MUP, has carefully studied this law. There are urgent measures here. Therefore, a special instrument has the introduction of emergency measures if one’s integrity, i.e. life, 52 health, etc. Threatened. So it's legal, too. These deadlines of Amendment III, therefore, are a matter of agreement and assessment. As for this, let's say, some compromise proposal, which Mr. Džaferović made, seems acceptable to us in the ministry. And I think with what I'd say, one good will would get one good bill. Here's the key thing. This new law, which we are considering: it provides in Article 12 for measures to protect a witness, namely a close person, and states 'physical and technical protection of persons and property, relocation, concealment of identity and ownership data and change of identity'. Look, if this is about moving, this is a very small area. We may have to move the witness to Canada, Australia, etc. If you change his identity, it's very subtle stuff and it's a small space. Even the former Yugoslavia was small for the application of one of these laws. I ask you to accept this kind of argument, because this really isn't directed against anyone. There is no currently in the RS or the Federation witness protection program. There are other laws that regulate procedural matters. But changing identity, moving, etc., these are very complex issues that only specialised institutions within the BiH state can deal with and in the manner that the relevant law prescribes. And in that sense, here I once again ask you for an additional effort to reach a compromise on this important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21568	I thank the Honorable Minister. First Deputy Chairman Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21569	I don't have the capacity to make much of a contribution when it comes to the measure of things in this law. To me are acceptable and understandable reasons, i.e. the argument Mr. Džaferović made, but here I am also trying to understand these obstacles, i.e. the dilemmas that Mr. Živković made and which he tried to remove or try to remove from these amendments. But let's get back to one practice. I'd like to ask Mr. Sadović a question. So, in addition to the accompanying act, when this law came to Parliament in the eighth month, it was said that the Council of Ministers at the 55th session, held on 10.7., established the draft law, i.e. the draft law. So to assume that this is well considered by the Council of Ministers, this constitutional basis, and I am interested in being direct, whether this law has been adopted by consensus. Can you remember? Because then I'm surprised, I'm really surprised that we can attach more importance and trust the Chief of Legal and Administrative Affairs, any institution, or the RS MUP, to the position of the Council of Ministers, a unanimous position, so where do people from both entities sit, so to speak, and candidate parties, etc. Here, so I'd like you to give me a precise answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21570	Security Minister Tarik Sadović. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21571	Here, I also thank you for this question, because it will further clarify some things. As I recall, at a meeting of the Council of Ministers of the former SIPA Director, the current Civil Affairs Minister, Mr. Sredoje Nović had some technical remarks that we adopted and then unanimously passed this law. So his remarks were incorporated into the text of the law and we unanimously passed the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21572	I thank the minister. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić has applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21573	Dear Chairman, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of NGOs and the media, ladies and gentlemen, so it would be good to adopt this law if we were a democratic country or if we had the capacity of the Hague tribunal. But we are witnessing that there have been countless abuses. I'll give you an example. The Saborci were called in the brothers' war. He had a hard time living and decided to falsely testify because the international community guaranteed him everything. So, we'll change your name and name, we'll send you to a country, and for the rest of your life, you'll have support. Are there criminal sanctions for those who falsely testified, who, provenly, were telling lies? I could list three examples from The Hague tribunal, which is a much stronger institution. Secondly, does this country have the capacity to provide financial resources for the transfer of such a witness to, say, a state? How much does that cost? Does anyone make pre-accounts? So let's not rewrite something from Europe that we think – I respect conventions all, of course, that they are above the Constitution – but are they applicable in BiH!? Is that possible? Is anyone here making those pre-accounts, which I keep saying, what we get on the bridge and what we lose on the keg!? I am afraid, whatever law we adopt – of course I will not accept if there is too much incompetence – will there be an affront of such false witnesses who will ask for all this, because there is a better chance that you will solve everything in life for yourself and family, that someone will sustain you to the end, which you will falsely testify in court. Does anyone care about that? So these are key things that don't cover this law. And he says it's a good law. It's not a good law, because the Hague tribunal, which initially had several billion dollars for its work, here's a rash, I can't even pay for what they have, but they have to, they can't get in the way, bring all the processes to an end. Can we get in with one of these laws in suspense procedure, so tomorrow someone or Mr. Vrankić says, hey, we don't have the money to send him on a plane to go there, not to provide him with his whole life. Who's gonna pay for that? What are we gonna do? So we can't go on an adventure, make some laws without having a premonition of what they're going to do to us. I warn you, remember, if you adopt a law like this, expect the worst witness regardless of whether what we are seeking to be only the Court of BiH, all the courts, will be insolent and 54 is difficult today to accuse someone and lie against him for money. Well, for money, he'll sell his mother and his mother, not charge his colleague! Take care of these aspects. Can this country stand it? He can't. As soon as he can't, it's counterproductive, people, to pass any law. At least let's start by making it impossible for that crowd to come to court so-called. witnesses who are protected. Oh, me, when I have the truth with me, I don't need anyone to protect me. Of course there will be attacks and attacks. Well, now I'd have to hang out in the cabinet with the Secretary of Security or the SIPA for getting 50 threatening messages every day. What am I supposed to do now? And I can think that people like that will abuse it. Now someone's gonna threaten him in court for telling the truth. Tell the truth, you don't need protection. But if you're going to make these benefits come true, what's important to me is whether I'm going to be called Slavko Jovičić or I'm going to be named Marko Marković, give me Džon Mekejn, and I'm going to go to America, all the way paid up, I have nothing to worry about anymore. Forget the state, I don't need the state, he gave up everything. Take care of it. And this transfer of jurisdiction thing, that's another story. She would have the least damage to BiH. But of course we can't accept it. And don't, please, I begged you 10 times, to use the word experts. They're the ones who get us into all these troubles that they're proposing. If they do, let's call them normal people, here's not insulting experts, experts, normal people who will contribute to having something normal that will be applicable.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21574	Thank you. Are there any more reported? Dear Representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21575	Mr. Chairman, I'll be brief and I'll just pick up where my colleague Belkić left off. I think we really need to think about how we're going to keep working on how the Council of Ministers adopts laws and we don't accept them here. I think, first of all, what little law comes, second of all, what comes, we reject them, and in fact we have nothing. I don't think it's, I really don't think, I'm convinced that it's not about any transfer of jurisdiction, that it's not against the constitution because, as counterpart Džaferović said, it's only in case there's a need, if that court wants to take advantage of this possibility. So if he won't, there's no coercion. That's one thing. And secondly, I have to look back on my colleague Jovičić's discussion. There may be abuses, but this amendment does not, unfortunately, resolve these abuses. So, no matter what court abuses would occur, here only in the BiH Court if abuse occurs, this law with this amendment cannot prevent that abuse. So here's why I'm calling for us to pass this law, to unblock something once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21576	Business intervention, distinguished representative Džaferović. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21577	Replic to the gentleman. There's no abuse, there's no abuse. There's a painful procedure, so nobody's crazy! Well, it is. It's a replica to you. There's no possibility of abuse! To you, I apologize, the replica, there is no possibility of abuse. Well, nobody's crazy to buy it. There's a painful commission, there's a request, there's people who can assess whether there's been a threat or not and there's a decision-making procedure. Well, it's not just, I mean, it's serious stuff. Here, it is said, we can ask the question: do we need the BiH Court then, do we need this all together that we have? This is a function for institutions to do their job properly and there is no possibility of abuse if people do their job as prescribed by the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21578	Correction of the wrong allegation, distinguished representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21579	My colleague Džaferović, I wasn't talking about abuses. My colleague Jovičić spoke of abuses, and I replicated it to him. And you to me, because I replicated to him.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21580	Honorable representative Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21581	I'm glad you listened to me. Well, I didn't put you on thin ice, so now you're putting me in focus. That's right, I'm the one who suggested it, and I'm staying with it. How is it not abuse? Now, why don't you answer me that I trust the Court of BiH, now these right there... will hardly wait to put pressure on me: in 15 days solved the subject of the director of television, my subject for three years? My colleagues, my neighbor - five years. They'll never solve it. And that I trust that court. Don't swear to me in court. Court makes people, court is an institution, but people are irresponsible. I ask the question: How can I trust the Court of BiH if in 15 days it solves the subject of the director of television in an emergency procedure, I am still surprised that our rules haven't changed, 127, so let's say, let's go, it's an emergency procedure, and the other items stand for four or five years. Don't tell me about them, without saying how they're going to judge this that I'm doing political pressure. But I've listed things that will happen. So please, we can't vote for it, Mr. Živković explained it. Don't underestimate this lady what she's doing there. Here, even I'll mention this, it works there and here I don't even know what nationality is, but I heard, I think, Indira you said, right? It doesn't matter which, I guess, a woman knows something. If she said so, so I guess I'm obliged to hear her too, so I can hear Mr. Džaferović, including everyone, and bring some of my own court, and not now belittle the woman, who she is there, as the minister says, if she's an expert. Well, I don't know there, Mr. Minister, you weren't here today, I respect you, you know, but when someone criticises a little, I get a hundred. Call these two police directors and see what's up with him about this security. What's so hard for you? You're the head of security for BiH. Give them a call. People complain that you didn't call them during your term of office at all. Look what's going on! And ask this Indira if she's right. You should consult someone. Don't consult me. But I'm sure this is a transfer of jurisdiction. 56 Don't, people, so how many times I've called you, break the Constitution. Don't break it, it's the Constitution. He's like that. Don't make us break the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21582	The clarification, a respected security minister, Tarik Sadović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21583	Here, therefore, exclusively for the purpose of clarifying certain allegations. Could it happen that the witness is falsely testifying? Well, it may happen but perjury is a criminal offence, a criminal offense, but be careful, this law owns, please, Mr. Jovičić, in Article 18, which is called 'Desistance and Interruption of the Protection Programme', so the Commission that made the decision on this programme can also break the agreement and in law counted all the elements when this commission can terminate this programme. Here, for your information, so I don't read all of it to you, here in Article 18(3) point e) 'If the person included in the Protection Program lists the false data in the questionnaire', so in the questionnaire that previously states, so if he lied already at this stage, 'he's unreliable.' So there are also criminal legislation, and there are mechanisms in this legislation that need to prevent false testimony. Is that theoretically possible? It's theoretically possible. It is possible and practical but I am telling you that the legislator, the legislator, took care of it and tried to protect both sides maximumly. Here, I'll be happy to call, and I'll meet with the entity interior ministers, with the cantonal ministers, occasionally we meet. That communication is flowing. It can be better, of course, but here, if I may tell you, today you've given me an impossible task. So you know you're conducting investigations and some cases are at trial and you're looking for information about it. I'll ask, if you will, both the courts and the investigative agencies to provide me with the information. But what I can offer you specifically in response to your request – that is, it will be like this. I think you know that, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21584	In accordance with the earlier arrangement and plan, at this point we're gonna take a break by 15.00 hours. After that, we continue to discuss this agenda point until the end. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue to work. We're on the 5th wheel of the agenda. I don't have any more applications to discuss this agenda point and I'm closing the debate. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda: 57 Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Procedure Act – Proposer: Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21588	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, let me just say why I have applied to defend these two amendments. Because it was a session of the Commission and I didn't get a call, although I was in Sarajevo on another committee that day, so I felt it was appropriate to defend these two amendments in this assembly. You've received these amendments and I think about the amendments I'll just say a few more words which is why I think we need to make a statement about this law. First, what is known is that this law has never revived, although it has been passed, it has never revived at the level of the BiH state. Secondly, this parliament has formed this commission in the composition that you had there I think we have our three members, who should have established an objective evaluation of foreign savings... which is in the dispute, and that this commission, it was otherwise a committee composed of the House of Peoples and this House, and they should have submitted a report to this home, and they have not yet done so, even though I know that Mr Dokić, as president of that commission, has promised that this 58 report is almost finished and will be presented in this House. And the Council of Ministers has again made this proposal to amend and supplement the law based on what it says in the request... that the report of this committee, which seems to me to be a contradiction, because the first report we were supposed to get, and only, and here we haven't got it yet. And the third thing, the Council of Ministers brings meaning this amendment and supplemental, because last time we had an assistant finance minister who came out here in front of this assembly and said that, in fact, this is supposed to help those savings who didn't verify that they were verifiable to facilitate their ability to collect that foreign savings. First of all, I have to say that I was surprised, or at the time I could understand it, but these days the same assistant minister, Mr Kasumović, was on federal television where he challenged this situation and said that verifying the minority is not necessary, which in other words leads me into error at all whether the law, as such, was necessary to change if we did not first implement it in BiH, if there is a minister who says that that verification should not be done. And the third thing, if he's still saying it's supposed to help, let's say, savings. In the meantime, so from the moment the savings were asked this question, I asked the Council of Ministers: 'Who will be held accountable because there are no court rulings, because there are a large number of appeals to courts regarding the old foreign savings?' And I must say that I have received a reply from the Council of Ministers, in which it is said that, in fact, all those who are according to Article 28, I only state: 'All cases which, on the day of the entry into force of the law are not settled by law, are transferred by the competent court by official duty to verify... Accordingly, the actual jurisdiction of the courts to resolve these disputes has ceased, and the courts were obliged to forward the files to the competent agency referred to in Article 7 for verification.’ What's going on? The courts seem to have acted that way, because this would have led to the fact that, under Article 28, this law effectively disproves, after this verification,...the savings to appeal to the courts and to seek their rights. So I have been given the interpretation that the Council of Ministers, in fact, has interpreted, under Article 28, that they no longer have the right to represent themselves before the courts and for these reasons, amendments, amandman i and amandman ii, under this law, are going towards amending these amendments according to my proposal that has been made here, with a note that savings would remain the possibility of the right, let's say, to seek compensation from the courts. If this interpretation states that the Council of Ministers gives an interpretation that it means by Article 28. - who has not verified himself, no longer has the right to sue the courts, then I believe that if this parliament adopts this law, it should first and foremost give the answer: how does the lawmaker mean in this case the BiH Parliament has the exclusive jurisdiction to interpret its own norm. I propose to the BiH Parliament and to this House that it give authentic interpretation of Article 28 and Article 5. The law on the settlement of liabilities based on the account of old foreign exchange savings. This is very important, because if this parliament has passed this law, then it has an obligation to interpret Article 28 and Article 5, not to interpret it possibly by the Council of Ministers. Because I'm saying, in this case, if we accept changes and additions without any amendments I've made, our foreign exchange savings remain without the right to judge on these material goods. 59 Therefore, I ask you to put the amendments that I have proposed for the vote, and if the amendments do not pass, before the adoption of the law, I would ask that this House give authentic interpretation of Article 28 and Article 5 so that we may, behold, and those who seek the protection of their rights to receive these authentic interpretations, so that they may continue to act in the process of seeking compensation from the old foreign currency savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21589	Thank you. The following is reported by the esteemed representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21590	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, the old foreign savings is the question that is most certainly treated by all the other issues, both at the entity level and at the state level, and this has become, let me say, a little bit and a bit and a bit and a lot of talk. I'll just say a few words on this occasion. There are few examples in which human rights of citizens are so flagrantly violated as is the case with owners of old foreign currency savings. And what's harder than that – the violation of the basic human rights of the owners of the old foreign currency savings insists on legalising in all segments. So far, I have not supported any of this law on the return of old foreign savings, because they are unconstitutional, they violate fundamental human rights and, I'm free to say, they humiliate the owners of the old foreign currency savings. Please, we are publicly alluding to people today to refrain from raising their savings deposits as a contribution to curbing the financial crisis and, on the other hand, to treating those who believed in banks and the system in a similar situation, we are giving a real picture of those who believed, who believe in banks and the state. This bill of amendments is another pour of salt on early savings and an attempt to gain additional time, not to help savings as they try to explain there. I must remind myself of the damages that will follow in BiH through the execution of the Court of Human Rights rulings in Strasbourg and other courts, and therefore, among other things, we and those who have proposed laws that are flagrantly violating human rights are also responsible. So, I haven't said anything that I haven't already said in the debates so far, but I want to say this time that I won't vote for this law, especially if the Bešlagić amendment is not adopted, because it violates the basic human rights of the owner of the old foreign currency savings, and I will certainly repeat it once more – insults their dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21591	I thank the honourable representative, Dolić. 60 The following has been reported by the first deputy chairman, Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21592	Here, I thank Mr Bešlagić for helping us and giving us further explanations, because definitely, when reading what we have officially received the Commission's report and the Explanation of the amendments without this additional one, man could hardly tell what this is about. However, I do want to, I came out most of all to hear from the Ministry of Finance what is thought of this amendment. I'd really like to ask you to give us some clarification and some attitude, if you have it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21593	Thank you. Is there any from the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21594	I want to welcome you and I will try, I, Zakira Muratović, am the assistant minister at the Ministry of Finance and Treasury and have worked on this law, by amending this law. In view of the complexity of this whole situation that has been happening in general about law-making, the adoption of laws and later on these events, I think it really does cause in a certain way and a kind of disdain and misunderstanding, etc., which is completely understandable, given the overall situation. However, let me just remind you that we have passed a law that regulated the way of verification, the deadlines of verification, and all in the sense that it would be accessible in due time, that it would be accessible to verification and that it would thus have a real insight into the proper state of foreign currency savings. Given that the verification was not carried out to the extent and the way it was expected, the need for extension of the verification deadlines appeared. In fact, the draft law was drawn up in accordance with the conclusion of the Interim Joint Commission to determine the old foreign exchange savings of BiH citizens placed on the expense of domestic banks. Therefore, in general, the very initiative to prepare changes to this law came from the Interim Joint Commission. That conclusion asked the Council of Ministers to draw up a proposal for amending and supplementing the law as soon as possible and in this respect it was also done. This law proposes a follow-up verification which assumes the submission of applications and procedures by agencies, then cash payments, and settlement through bonds in accordance with existing conditions. In fact, this law only wanted to enable a continuous way of verifying. The continuous method of verification means that the savings would not remain unsecured, meaning that they could be verified during that particular period. All the essence of these amendments to the law was that. However, the existing amendments discussed at the Finance and Budget Commission also suggest... that the verification has been carried out until the entry into force of this law is final and 61 legal. It's actually the opposite of what were actually amendments to this law. It is further proposed to commit the agencies referred to in Article 7. The law to restore court cases to competent courts, to stop the provisions of Articles 7 and 11 that actually refer to verification, to ways to verify, etc., by way of effect of this law. So that these provisions are contrary to the provisions and objectives required by the law on the settlement of obligations under the account of old foreign exchange savings, because the adoption of these amendments would have already made the verification final, thus preventing further verification, which is in the interest of both creditors and debtors, on the one hand, and debtors, on the other hand. I mean, it's, I don't know if I've been clear enough, but here I'm afraid that here in the misunderstanding, the applicant for the amendment and the applicant for the amendment of this law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21595	I thank the esteemed assistant minister. The following was reported by distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21596	Dear President, colleagues and fellow representatives, distinguished guests, I spoke at the last session about an example of two friends wearing furniture, so they missed the building and practically the wrong building arrived very high to achieve the goal and just found out that they had to go back and into the other building to take that furniture. I want to make that point again, because I think the Council of Ministers, in an example of old foreign savings, missed the building, so it's missed the whole way, and now it's trying to take some more steps on that wrong path. I don't think we should help them with that. We need to help them get back on track to settle this in a far better way. The savings are ruled by the International Court of Justice in Strasbourg, and it is logical that people do not want to agree to worse conditions than the Court has already given them in several cases. In front of the court, over 10,000 cases, over a billion marks of lawsuits, which I looked at on the Association's website today, and no one thinks about it in the Council of Ministers what will happen if over a billion marks, such as some judgments already passed, fall on the burden of BiH. Who's gonna be responsible for having to pay that kind of interest? Who will be responsible for what we will pay and for the damages, because people are being judged and compensated for their lack of funds? I downloaded a letter from the Association's website received by the President of the European Commission through the Director General for Enlargement, Mr Dinko Lange. It's short, so I'll read it. 'Dear Mr. Nišić, we thank you for your letter of 19. 8. 2008 in which you express your concerns about the issue of old foreign savings. Mr. Baroso asked me to answer your letter. The European Commission regularly stresses at high-level meetings with BiH authorities the need to urgently resolve the issue of claims related to frozen deposits. It is very important that the BIH fulfils its obligations to its citizens." So we allow ourselves and that the European Commission is speeding us up to meet our obligations to our citizens. For this reason, my suggestions are, and in the People's Party Work for 62 improvements, we believe that this should be resolved in such a way that we bring the existing legislation in line with the International Court of Justice's rulings and that this is how we resolve this issue, and this will have huge positive consequences for the whole of BiH, for the achievement of human rights, and especially for the BiH economy. Because those people who get that money -- that money will stay in BiH again. It will be invested in certain activities and will trigger positive economic indicators. If it continues to go in this direction, then every day we lose current savings, because it is logical that in conditions like this, when people have already lost their savings, they will not risk happening to them again and the money will go to the banks of neighbouring countries that have properly paid their citizens this old foreign savings that BiH is not. Here's my appeal and the Council of Ministers to try to consider this and to, therefore, get back on track and try to solve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21597	Thank you. The word came from distinguished representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21598	So I'm not gonna say... there's no replica, but the bottom line is that I have a document that's 15. 5. In 2006, Mrs. Ljerka Marić, as finance minister, submitted to the Directorate for Direct Taxation, where she asked to pass a law on... supplementing the Law on an indirect taxation system in BiH for the reconciliation of internal debt and old foreign currency savings. The board of directors never did, that was the way. The passing of this law was also the way in which to reconcile the old foreign currency savings. The second thing that is very important and I want to mention: out of the billions and 600 million, only the recording obligations cover about 550 million. A billion and nearly 100 million remain unverified, which in other words means that the savings had no confidence in the system. The Constitutional Court has brought that the one who verified himself has been verified, and the others have the right to judicial alignment. By this law, Article 28, if we accept it in amendments and additions, we, in fact, prevent these savings from being tried for the reconciliation of our obligations. So we join the countries that are breaking, I would say, fundamental human rights and violate the fundamental human rights to the property they acquired, which they had in banks, and the state was guaranteed. And one more thing that's very important. I'm not anywhere. This is the first time I've asked that question. We don't have the entity's consent that the funds, which are according to the old foreign savings, accept the entities to be the ones to realise that entity's savings. If he catches that -- I'm talking about the Federation now, I have the right -- a billion marks of an old foreign exchange, or a billion and 300 million old foreign exchange savings to settle, not that it's going to be bankruptcy, but bankruptcy to the tenth potential! For these reasons, I believe that all this is done here, first of all, protecting the interests of the BiH state, my question as I asked the Council of Ministers: who will be responsible? 63 I have not received the answer, and therefore I believe that the best option is either that the Council of Ministers withdraws this bill, because we have not received a report from this commission that should have given us a report on this old foreign exchange savings, and the Council of Ministers is discussing it on the basis of the report from the Commission, and this commission has told us that they did not give the report. So, please, let's not jump before, don't yell "hop" before we jump! I think it would be correct and fair or to adopt the amendments I have proposed, in the interest of both BiH and the savings, or that the Council of Ministers withdraws the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21599	Dear Representative Bajazit Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21600	So, this is a follow-up story that started when this law was passed, and I have to say that we've heard this story, not always from the same MPs and MPs, and then I would dare open up such a debate and point out here that it's a different responsibility. The different responsibilities of the Council of Ministers' proposal against the budget of the institutions, the different responsibilities of the parties that have assumed the responsibility of the authorities and the different responsibilities of the MPs from the opposition who, of course, have no responsibility to find a solution to pay for these commitments on a one-off basis when creating the commitment of the budget. So, there is no one in BiH who would not pay the old savings today to five o'clock a total interest savings better than the European Court of Justice ruled. There's no one. Why would anyone be against it? Especially not now when it comes to this financial crisis where the entire global and banking system is rolling again. We discussed the economic power of BiH in passing the law. We have adopted one solution that we are not satisfied with but which BiH can give to its economic impotence, we can say instead of economic power. But then we said we didn't think it was some kind of great justice. Yes, the right to savings is equal to the right to other assets called broken houses, lost property in that business area. But this one came in line, people started the initiative, the state was held accountable, and we passed such a law. Then we concluded that this commission should monitor that situation in that area and bring this law into line with what's to be found, following what's going on there. And these changes are something else entirely. Until the report and some serious improvement of the law occur, the process of verification of foreign exchange savings should be derailed, as the dates there have expired by law. And there was a dilemma if we were going to agree to it, we wouldn't, some agreed, one might be for a reason not. And this law doesn't touch anything, so it doesn't burden anyone. It frees no one from responsibility, but leaves the possibility that those who would eventually want to verify themselves and use that right. No one can be denied justice. There's no law that'll go straight to court... deny but what verdict there will be, then you'll be seen there in court against these laws. And since I am a member of the Finance and Budget Committee, I am obliged to say that the adoption of the amendment, in fact, does not need this law. So if these are amendments, then this law doesn't have to. These amendments want to make some quality solution in the Law on the Enabling of Obligations on the basis of an old foreign savings account but for these better solutions it is necessary to make an analysis in this area 64 and only then can it go with the new law. So these amendments, in a material sense, cost nothing to the state and free no one, at one time, of the state to be guilty before the courts before which they are led there. And I have to say, I'd like to make this sentence public, who's going to be guilty if there's a verdict there? It won't be anyone's fault. Neither those who sued nor those who ruled, nor those who were judged. Because no one has brought this situation into foreign exchange savings by their own free will, by its own free will, into this... So, BiH does not have the ability to pass such a law in the face of its economic power at all. And when we take the social sector, when we take the health care sector, when we take any sector, we don't have much solved in any sector. Lawmaking is a step bigger than BiH can handle. That's the only way to understand it. In all other variants, we propose protection of domestic production, assistance to fighters, assistance to the social sector, health care, we propose assistance to education, to the university, we propose road construction, we propose everything. And we just have to tell you where we're going to finance it all. I was obliged to speak this way, because from the parties, the opposition has no need for people to come forward, because we already told it once. Then it would turn out that everyone wants this law not to be passed. And I want to say responsibly - the adoption of this law is to give chances to people who want to find salvation. Those who will not find salvation in this law, I suggest they sue, and I would like them to win in court. If they do, this country will find a way to reconcile what it has to do with the verdict. Let no one worry, but I'm not sure by proposing a solution to pay off immediately we want good neither savings nor state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21601	Correction of the incorrect allegation, distinguished representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21602	First of all, I want to say that I am a member of Parliament here,...I am not touched at all by the foreign savings, but with the people who sat here and talked to me I took the right to give these amendments. Therefore, I am not an opposition in this case, in this case I am a parliamentarian who believes that the Bill on Law Supplements - is not his place, because we have not even received a report from this commission as such, which this Parliament has appointed. But why did I, why did I initiate this question? I think there's a solution, a very simple solution. Because, on my question, I received a 25.9th answer in which the Council of Ministers gave an interpretation. According to Article 28, all cases which, on the date of entry into force of the law, are not settled by law, shall be transferred by the competent court by official duty to verification and reconciliation. According to the above, please listen to this, the actual jurisdiction of the courts has ceased, the actual jurisdiction of the courts to resolve these disputes has ceased. So the courts were obliged to submit the files to the competent agencies, referred to in Article 7, for verification. Please, because it says, "the jurisdiction of the courts has ceased," which means, in other words, that we put people in a situation who are saving that they have no right to seek judicial alignment. 65 So that was why I accepted that, I say, I act to the amendments that these people have that right. And now, let me mention again, we can get out of this very simple. It is only for this home to give an interpretation of Articles 28 and 5. The law and it is enough that they give an interpretation and that we now tell the savings – you can... according to BiH courts or you can go to Strasbourg, but the position of this Parliament is that Article 28 and Article 5 do not specify relations, do not deny the right for you or deny your right to appeal to courts for those who have not verified. And one more thing. If more than 50% of the people haven't been verified, then that's proof that people won't. I even have information that those who have verified themselves want to get off that item now. And thirdly, I'd like to ask just for delegates from the Federation, this is the first time I'm saying: does the Federation have the consent to accept these burdens that were given here to be transmitted there? I think these are the things that, here, let's get this out of the way, but please, if nothing else, just give us an interpretation of this Article 28th and Article 5 of this law and let's finish this. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We don't have to argue too much. I made the argument that I met and I got it, and now it's up to us to decide about adoption.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21603	Correction of a false quote, a replica, is it? Your Honor, did you ask for Jozo? It's a debate, then. Honorable representative Ivanković, then distinguished representative Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21604	I regret to point out some of the things that my colleague Jašarević said. I come forward as an opposition, and I think that in this home, I, as the opposition representative of the People's Party, have a very large responsibility to point out the failures committed by the ruling six, in this particular case by the old foreign currency savings. And I think it's my responsibility. Money is not a problem for paying off old foreign savings. But we can get them if there's a political will to get these money and get people back. We have the least luxury tax in the region, especially not to speak in relation to EU countries. So the ruling six doesn't want to tax the luxury of taking money from those who enjoy luxury in this country and paying back to those who have been in debt for 18 years. So money's not a problem if he wants to make peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21605	Dear Representative Dolić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21606	... As quickly as counterpart Jašarević says he pays the debt to the owners of the old foreign currency savings. [[no microphone turned on]] Secondly, I would disagree that BiH has no opportunity to pass one such law that would damage the owners of the old foreign savings. Besides, it's the private property of those people and she has a duty and she's taken that responsibility. And who's to blame for us in the Federation of BiH 174 thousand 66 apartments privatizing for all the cash in 500 converting marks? Who's to blame that we're not obliged and claims based on the old foreign exchange savings reported in claims based on succession? And who's to blame for making a number of other mistakes in the postwar period, and now I absolutely disagree that this should fall on the burden of the owner of the old foreign savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21607	Dear Representative Bajazit Jašarević, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21608	... Is everyone who mentioned me there in that speech. [[no microphone turned on]] So, I took the exposure as a wish for the savings to come forward here and I approve. And I understood the line as an inability to make arguments about it. Because those who think they can and must, that it is easy and it is only a matter of will, I suggest that they pass a law in which one will be a member – from now on and so on, whoever doesn't! And then I'll realize that's what they want. So it's not easy to make a state, and this wounded state is bound to do for everything it owes in one appropriate way, I don't mean good, but an appropriate way, it means being responsible. Popularly, anyone, but responsible rarely, has to speak responsibly only one who really has to be responsible. Everyone else, of course, understand they want to ask. So, this law, to repeat, helps people to verify, they don't have to, they still have their own path to follow, they just have to follow themselves. But the passing of this law means crying, because the existing law has closed the possibility of verification. Those who want through the Central Bank go through the Central Bank, they're going through the budget of the RS, so everybody work their way. The failure to pass the law is an opportunity to create such opportunities for people, and these amendments require improvement of the law. I also suggest that those who want to improve should submit a new law that has been improved and agree with the Council of Ministers whether there are sources of funding in entities for that, for those better solutions?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21609	Dear Representative Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21610	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, you see, this is the third or fourth time we've talked about the various aspects of the settlement law of old foreign currency savings. So, today's proposal is actually going to extend the deadline to verify the old foreign savings and nothing more. However, what irritates this whole thing is that in three attempts, we do not come to one quality law that would satisfy, on the one hand, our citizens who are old foreign currency savings and, on the other hand, one seriousness of the state towards their citizens. I don't think that one of the conclusions of this House has ever been respected in adopting this law has been obliged by the Council of Ministers to identify real resources as soon as possible to cover old foreign exchange savings and to appear as soon as possible with a change of laws in terms of deadlines. It's never been done. 67 Our country has a very, very passive relationship with the countries that owe us on these grounds. There was never a question of how the banks were privatized so quickly with us? Did they have the obligations of old foreign exchange savings in their balance sheets, and will this country now, on behalf of these private bank owners, pay tribute to these citizens? And worst of all, we never understood the seriousness of this, and even this parliament hurried to pass some law on the reconciliation of obligations... of old foreign savings, only after the court's ruling. You know, this wasn't the will of the state to make peace with its citizens. So, if today's topic is this bill of law, I think it would be best if this law were to collapse so as not to say that we did something to improve that solution. Because what Bešlagić explained, then we would further bring people into one... state of legal uncertainty. And with this, I'd like to make a certain conclusion again, my people, that this is finally getting serious. We have sources, I also say, regardless of the situation in which BiH is located, these two billion are not the problem of getting rid of its citizens within three or four years. We need to find them, we need to use these resources at our disposal and in terms of seducing greater financial discipline, fostering domestic production, seducing certain taxes on high-tariff goods, etc., etc. And finally, what about the privatisation funds, etc. without talking about what we, as a state, would have to do to clear these relations with the states involved in the Ljubljanska Banka and, I don't know, this Belgrade and, of course, to ask questions...how did the disappearance of that foreign savings occur? Because it is known that... the banks in record time are very elegantly privatized without any obligation to the old foreign currency savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21611	I don't have any more logs.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21612	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21613	What? I don't know where you signed up, so I don't have them, but here you can. But I'm asking you all to register in time. So either it's electronic or it's visible when you answer. Dear Representative Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21614	I'll do it very briefly. As a member of the Ad hoc commission to determine old foreign savings, me and my colleagues may have a little bit more information than some other colleagues. And what I can say is, or here, and based on that information, these here debates and concerted last sessions etc. – I think this law should certainly be supported, because it allows one large majority, a significant number of our foreign savings that has not been recorded to verify this old savings so that they can achieve all those other rights. However, what is the main reason for the dissatisfaction of old foreign savings is two things. It's interest on this whole period since '92. So far, so long as it's due back. And very interestingly, most of those who advocate a solution, I have no doubt about it, for a good solution – do not mention these two questions. But often 68 solutions are advocated that are not actually real at all are not possible. I don't know, it's like there's some magic wand and you can solve it the way someone imagined it, not respecting the realities that they are. And these are the possibilities of this country, that's the condition it is found. RS has issued bonds, in the Federation we still haven't. I think that we need to pass this law as soon as possible and with its application and then speed up everything that follows, which is that the Federation will be as soon as possible issued bonds and that people can get bonds and that they can still trade with these bonds, in order to get to a part of the funds for their foreign savings. Of course, those who feel that it would be good to wait for them so that later cash them in, etc., as well as trading all other securities. And that's why I wouldn't really be longer. What this Ad hoc commission will have to do until the end until the report is drawn up and submitted to this home is to see if there are, whether they are justified and to what extent the remarks on the work... etc., because sometimes there are some insufficient precision in verifying savings. I think in that sense we're doing a good and useful job and that's how we help old foreign savings. About Mr. Bešlagić's amendment? I think that if such amendments were to be adopted, they would mean one entirely different concept of resolution than what it is offered by the current amendments and supplementing this law, and they are to supplement the existing law and to extend the deadline for registering, or verifying savings. If we accept this and then we say that there is no, that the verification is complete, it's just a trial. I don't think that's what we need, that we need to look for solutions, to get rid of the vast majority, and I'm sure they will in a legitimate way. And the one who is not satisfied always remains the variant of solving it through court.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21615	I thank the honourable representative Velimir Jukić. I'm closing the debate on the 7th agenda. We're going to the eighth point, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) At the 35th session, we adopted the bill from this point in our first reading. The Joint Commission for European Integration is responsible. The Joint Committee's report, after considering the draft law in the second phase, was received on 4 November. The Commission accepted the proposal in the proposed text. There were no amendments in the review phase in this committee either. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. 69 We move to the ninth item of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Proposal for a law on minor perpetrators of criminal offences and criminal-legal protection of children and minors (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21618	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs, here I will first of all try to give as soon as possible one explanation and, of course, then answer this second question asked. You have before you the proposal for a law on minor perpetrators of criminal offences and criminal-legal protection of minors. This law contains provisions on small-time perpetrators of criminal offences, provisions which are material and legal in nature, that is to say, from material and criminal legislation, provisions under procedural legislation, provisions concerning the enforcement of criminal sanctions against minors, as well as provisions concerning the protection of children and minors. Of course, since it is minors, it is about persons who, at the time of the execution of the crime, turned 14, but not 18 or younger minors, younger, excuse me, adult persons who turned 18, but not 21, year, you know that it is one, I would say, a very sensitive population, and therefore special attention should also be given to the consideration of this bill. Of course, we worked on this proposal, both domestic experts and international experts, and it was a long time worked on this law. He's been through all the necessary procedures. I must tell you that somewhere in the third month of this year he was delivered to a series of relevant addresses which had the opportunity to submit his proposals, his opinion, his suggestions. For example, at the state level, the law was delivered to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. It was delivered, of course, to the entity ministries of justice -- the Federation of BiH, the RS, then to the Brcko District Justice Commission, then to equal 70 and to the BiH Law Schools. Later he was put in accordance with the rules on consultation on our website. It was left for 30 days to be able to place, too, remarks. Believe me, there's only one comment that's come from the Department of Social Work of the Vogosć Municipality. That's all we got, so as certain remarks in terms of repairs in this, here's the bill now. Of course, we used and had to meet all relevant international conventions in the draft of this law. First of all, I think of UN conventions, but also of Council of Europe conventions that treat this very, very sensitive matter. I regret that this initiative on possible withdrawal has come now. I think that, if it really meant serious, that it could be done and I don't see any obstacles not to be done in the next period, in terms of time and possibly in the amendment procedure, if there's any need for that. I would just like to meet you, in fact, in the shortest lines: the law is quite extensive and of course I have no intention of now giving clarifications to each of these provisions and I don't think it's necessary at this stage. But here I think the most significant thing is that for the first time in one law, we actually have matter that, let's say, was at the state level in three laws. So, Penal Code, Criminal Procedure Act and Criminal Penal Code. We also said that both entities and Brcko District are obliged, there we have prescribed a three-month period – we can see if it is realistic – to harmonise our provisions governing this area, both materially and materially and procedurally, but also in the execution of criminal sanctions for minors. Here, let me remind you briefly what would be the most significant content, or what this law is compared to the solutions so far. 1. In order to protect the best interests of minors, it is envisaged to form a department for minors consisting of one or more judges for minors and councils for minors. Detention departments are provided only for first-degree courts, while second-degree courts provide for recruitment, in the cases of the underage presidency, judges trained to work on these cases. 2. The judge for minors, then prosecutors, lawyers and other entities involved in the proceedings against minors must have special expertise in the field of child rights and underage criminality. With this in mind, the draft provides for a legal obligation to conduct education for all those working on cases of underage criminality. 3. The draft envisions the participation of expert co-workers within the courts and prosecutors, with special tasks in the process to be followed by minors. 4. The draft sets out a programme of alternative measures and insists on the adoption of specific rules in order to create specific conditions for their application. 5. As a particular sanction against minors, the so-called so-called sanctions are proposed. the specific obligations imposed by the court on the minor, with the aim of successful deterrence from deviating behaviour. 71 6. It is proposed to reduce the duration of educational and other educational measures, as practical experience points to the need for such legal norms. Seven. In the context of proceedings against minors, the draft proposed to transfer the preparatory procedure to the prosecutor's jurisdiction. For such a solution, the foothold was found in the requirements of practice itself. You know that in BiH, the investigation is entrusted to prosecutors. 8. Special attention is paid to the creation of a solution relating to the lack of freedom and detention of minors, taking into account relevant international standards. Nine. In this draft, there are provisions which take into account the efficiency of the process towards minors. Taking into account the draft in general, such provisions contribute to the achievement of the purpose of proceedings against minors, i.e. to avoid long-term proceedings in easier offences. Ten. In the process of enforcement of criminal sanctions against minors, judicial oversight of their execution has been strengthened. 11. Special chapter in the draft is: Criminal acts at the expense of children and minors. These provisions seek to provide adequate protection to victims during the procedure. In this regard, according to the example of modern legislation, specific forms of child and minor studies as victims of specific criminal offences are envisaged. Based on the example of modern legislative systems, this draft law on small-time perpetrators of criminal offences contains the wholes that systematically address the issue of underage criminality. In this respect, this draft covers provisions on material and procedural criminal law, and then on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors of criminal offences, as well as the part relating to criminal offences committed to the harm of children and minors, which I initially noted in the introduction itself. I would ask that this goes into another reading and, of course, all the remarks that, eventually, we can deliver to ourselves, and Parliamentarians themselves, in the next period, to be incorporated through the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21619	Džaferović, the discussion, is it? Discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21620	Is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21621	Nope, yeah. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21622	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I don't see, Mr. Vice President, whether you're telling me or anyone else behind me, and that's why I reacted like this, but it doesn't matter. I think it's a good idea that the issue of juvenile delinquency that has so far been scattered in several different laws, given that the subject of the protection of minors is institutionalized in one legal act, and I support that idea. I think it is a good thing that this issue needs to be cleared of both criminal-material legislation and criminal-processing legislation and provisions that speak of the enforcement of criminal sanctions and educational measures and that it should go this way by which the Ministry of Justice went precisely for a protective facility. The protective facility is here, as it is said, whether, a minor and a tendon is on it. That's why I support the idea of adopting this law. I suggest we hear everything we need to hear about the adoption of this law. And I had voices coming to me that there were certain opinions that might need to be incorporated into this law, but I had no idea that I was proposing the withdrawal of the law. This law should live in a parliamentary procedure and we are the ones who will shape it together with the BiH Council of Ministers and with everyone interested in this country and adopt it in the final form. That is why I think it would be good to adopt the law today in the first reading and that it will certainly, I hope, do the Constitutional Commission before this second reading – but in the House, too, adopt the conclusion that the House here will opt for a wider public debate. So here we need a public debate, after the adoption of the first reading, in which all those interested would have the opportunity to say and propose what they think they are proposing, because this law contains, there are also some novels, but it mainly contains solutions that we have so far in our laws. I think that we will have to in BiH, looking at things comparatively, comparing them to the situation in other legal systems, see what it is that we should further include in BiH's legal system and in this law, and I think it might actually be this problem that the Justice Minister, Mr. Čolak, was talking about. So, I suggest we adopt the law in the first reading and order the House to conclude the Constitutional Commission to hold a public debate. And now for this law I want to share with you one thought that, I think, is very important, not only for this law but for all these and similar laws. What exactly are we doing in BiH? We had it as a topic at the Public debate on domestic violence. It seems to me, yesterday or the overlap is that public, the 4th was, yesterday was a public debate organised. We produce through the laws of obligations for various entities in the Bosnian-Herzegovina society, and these entities are unable to take over, given their capacity, given their equipment – the obligations they are made under the laws adopted. Here, when it comes to this law, I, first of all, think of the social protection sector, or I mean social ageing organs. And I think that in the Bosnian social ageing body, when it comes to this law, he would have one of the key roles and when it comes to this problem, 73 has one of the key roles. And you see how today in BiH social ageing authorities are situationed. First of all, I think that the state towards them for every level of organization, from municipality to state level, has a social relationship, and then it's just a social ageing institution, they're somewhere. In the end, there must be reform in BiH bodies dealing with social care. This will require money, it will not be as expensive as giving birth to positive effects, because there is no successful fight, especially against this juvenile crime, where social ageing institutions are mainly seen as executive institutions without adequate training of social ageing institutions. And this should serve as, this opportunity should be our initiative for all of BiH, at all levels of government, to take care of this. In 2003, we adopted a novel when our criminal legislation was at stake, and...then we excluded the perpetrators who committed the crime in an unaccountable state from the jurisdiction of the courts. They were excluded from the jurisdiction of the courts and handed over complete cases and those situations to the authorities of social ageing, and the authorities of social ageing were not prepared to do the job, so now, through these latest amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, we have returned it in some way to the courts. It was an example when the state, and I'm talking about it, produced by its act an obligation for an institution that was not able to do the job in advance, and then we had a situation where the unaccountable crimes of murder and other serious crimes walked freely, walked free the streets. In this law, we will have to make an account, so it should be clear to everyone who adopts the law, this must go in parallel, social protection services must be strengthened and institutions must be strengthened. So, apart from the courts, here the minister certainly rightly spoke about special departments for minors and all this together that goes, institutions that will deal with raising or executing what the court determines in court proceedings. So, if I'm not talking right now, here's a famous public story about these educational institutions, they're not there, they're not built, and here I am taking this opportunity to talk about these two things about voting in the first reading of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21623	I would like to thank the honourable representative Džaferović. The next was announced by First Vice-President Beriz Belkić, and let the distinguished representative Bakir Izetbegović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21624	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is certain that there are no obstacles for man to vote for this law, I would be very pleased to have him adopted today in the first and second readings. I sincerely hope that, with the help of the minister and some clarifications, we will come to that. I would, of course, like to express the joy and satisfaction of having such a legal project in front of me, not to repeat what Mr. Džaferović was saying, I fully agree and I think this is a good solution. 74 Why have we now come to the situation that suddenly we have the conclusion proposed by the Party's MPs' Club for BiH to postpone the debate and that this legislative project is returned to the Council of Ministers for a plea? Because already here in this House has slowly become a common practice that a little, little bit of an organ or some ministry or some chief of administration or an inter-resor group, such as this one here, dramatically warns this parliament: if something is not adopted in the way they think we will compromise the conventions, that UNHCR intervened, that the OSCE intervened. Mr. Minister, they here warn you that the law does not clearly define the concept of a child. Did you have any communication with these people? This was signed by your colleague, Minister Halilović. Do you know he sent this to Parliament? So did you talk about this? I mean, really, we're getting harder to work. We keep checking something, is the Council of Ministers unanimous, is it consistent, isn't it agreed? We have made the proposal of this conclusion out of panic so that the law does not fail. Not to fail the law, because we weren't sure we could provide support for the law in the first reading. As far as the BiH Party is concerned, if it is willing to take me today in my first reading, and if people have understood what you're talking about, and if it remains the possibility of amendments being corrected, we will immediately withdraw this conclusion. We're not bound by this Interresor group. Call her, you're the promoter. I wanted to explain. I really wanted to explain that it's simply every moment that some practice is introduced new, intervened this, not in line with this, constitutional jurisdiction, is not competent. There we go. Interresor groups have started now, but with the minister's signature. So, as far as the Party for BiH MPs' Club is concerned, we won't insist or ask, here's the minister asked, and I'm asking my colleagues to adopt in our first reading, we're going to withdraw our proposal which was simply out of precaution... that we won't be able to, that we lose the law. Here, let the public debate go, Selime, let it go, but don't let the law fail, and did you hear what the minister said? That there were public debates, that the law was published on the website. We're wasting our time.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21625	I thank the esteemed First Vice-President, Mr. Belkić. The following was reported by distinguished MP Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21626	So, I welcome the adoption of the law, I think we should support it in the first reading. Also, I think it is necessary to hold a public debate in the organisation of the Constitutional Commission, and today I would only pay attention to one member, a member of the 44th, who speaks of the limitation of the execution of a juvenile prison sentence. I remember when some minors burned the old lady down here. Now they're free to walk in Sarajevo. And a lot of underage murderers walk all over BiH, go ahead. So we know who we are. The richer parents will protect their children from going to prison. And a member of 44 says that the sentence of juvenile prison will not be carried out when from the day of his sentence, which has been imposed, two years have passed, if the sentence of juvenile prison is imposed for up to three, 75 years. Three years, if the sentence of a juvenile prison is imposed for more than three years, etc. So, there's going to be an opportunity to avoid it, to get out of the country, or get out of the country, and after two years, you don't have to go to jail, and they do serious things if they're convicted up to three years. So, I think this needs an amendment. The SDA can also propose the amendment and say, first of all, it is two years short, it should be extended to five to ten years, and then it turns into a probationary sentence, with it not repeating a similar thing in the previous five to ten years. If he's been acting right for five years, then let's keep him hanging over his head like a parolee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21627	Thank you. I don't have any more reports and I'm closing the hearing. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: Ad. Ten. Proposal for a decision on the BiH presidency's task to submit a report on the costs of the presidency – Proposer: Representative Savo Erić You have the text of the proposed decision. I'm opening a debate. No more reported, no more reported for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda: Ad. 11. Report by the College Committee on Efforts and Consent on the Proposal for a conclusion of the SDA Club under discussion on the Report of the State Commission on the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens of BiH for the period from 1. 1. 2008 to 30. Six. In 2008, with the proposal for a conclusion
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21631	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman and respected MPs. Here, as the chairman said, I was assigned to prepare this information at the last Council of Ministers. Since I was officially, meaning as a conclusion, I only got yesterday, I assumed that I should go through procedure like the rest of the work, go back to the Council of Ministers, but here, given that it is on the agenda, I agreed in a conversation with the chairman to inform you orally about what we did and I think that because of the time and importance that such an attitude could be accepted. The US financial crisis has hit the rest of the world greatly, and the alarming consequences of the crisis have been expressed in the countries of the region and in BiH as well. Aware that the effects of the global financial crisis, to a certain extent, will not bypass BiH, the Council of Ministers has undertaken certain activities in part of the relevantness in BiH's constitutional solutions. A number of meetings and consultations with competent institutions were held on the measures taken to see the situation real and possible reflections on BiH. The meetings followed the prime ministers of entities and finance ministers, representatives of the Central Bank of BiH, the Banking Agency, the Banking Associations and representatives of the Deposit Insurance Agency. In view of the relevance, meeting participants have pledged to monitor the developments in the financial market and to take 77 timely measures to mitigate the financial crisis and its consequences on the economy and the citizens of BiH. After considering the overall situation and the facts presented in the banking sector, it could be concluded that domestic banks are liquid, i.e. they have enough resources to respond to a possible increase in demand for money. Restrictive measures concerning the allocation of funds give real ground to the belief that the earthquakes we have seen in developed countries on this basis in BiH will not be. In favour of this view, among other things, it can be noted that the total deposits in BiH's banks reached 15.6 billion marks in the first nine months of 2008. At the same time, the Deposit Insurance Agency's Management Board discussed the deposit situation information in 24 secured business banks and found that they increased by 8.13% within a year, and maintained the continuity of growth, which eliminates any possible cause of concern. However, it must be noted and pointed out and unquestionably that there have been some disturbances in the 10 month period and that citizens have mostly raised deposits of 589 million marks. It is significant to point out that BiH banks do not have risk-based securities and other financial instruments that have caused the crisis in the world. Our banks have high liquidity, and from the markets that are in crisis we're not looking for anything. So, from that point of view, we have no risk. Banks in BiH have no problems at all in the settlement of their liabilities to savings and depositors, as they operate purely as commercial banks and have a healthy credit portfolio. The resilience of the banking system is ensured by the legal measures of the Banking Agency, i.e. certain minimum liquidity, the adequateness of capital, and the minimum reserve rate prescribed by the Central Bank of BiH. Mother banks are more regional, not significantly active in the international financial market, is thought to be the US market, while our banks as their daughters have neither investments nor placements in those risky markets. Finally, the mothers' banks made a clear statement that they would not withdraw deposits from their BiH-based daughters' banks, but would monitor the development of the situation and respond adequately in the context of insurance for the development of the BiH economy. In this context, we also have written statements. The next concrete activity of BiH institutions in the context of measures taken to mitigate the financial crisis and its consequences for the economy and citizens of BiH is reflected in the fact that the Central Bank Management Board has decided to reduce the reserve rate they have to keep with the financial institution by 4%, thus strengthening their additional liquidity. By reducing the minimum reserve rate from 18% to 14%, the additional liquidity of banks amounting to 727 million marks was allowed. In this way, there has been a strengthening of the financial strength of banks faced with a certain withdrawal of citizens' cash as well as an impact on the mitigation of potential credit-rate payments by banks. The next activity, which has been relaxingly affecting the negative psychological consequences of the financial crisis in BiH, is reflected in the fact that the Council of Ministers has established a bill on amendments and additions to the Bank's Deposit Insurance Act. This law is addressed to parliamentary procedure by emergency procedure. The amendments and additions to this law increase the amount of the secured deposit in citizens' banks covered by insurance through the Insurance Fund: from 7.5 thousand marks to 20,000 marks. This is the third increase from, spell to, 2002. The adoption of amendments and the addition of the Bank Deposit Insurance Act aims to strengthen citizens' confidence in the banking system in BiH. Meetings were also held with representatives of international financial institutions, and it was estimated that the banking system in BiH is very stable and is very well managed. In doing so, it has been confirmed that the flow of BiH's financial resources, or so far the credit activity of international financial institutions, will continue to support BiH's development. In addition, credit documentation for the Corridor Vc Project with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development was signed last week. The 180m-euro credit so far is the largest investment in BiH's infrastructure, which is expected to play a key role, not only by giving a financial boost to BiH's development and economy but by making a significant impression on the entire region, means outside BiH. At the same time, a 300m-euro loan with the European Investment Bank is in the negotiations phase. With the CEB, so the Central European Bank has agreed on a 60m-euro loan to secure funds for domestic banks as an incentive for small and medium-sized enterprises. The above-mentioned and undertaken activities resulted in a significant reduction in citizens' mistrust. The fact that more payments than payments have been registered in banks over the last few days suggests stabilising the first negative psychological consequences of the global financial crisis. In addition, despite the fact that 589 million deposits were paid during the tenth month, by reducing the reserve obligation, increased deposits by 727 million, indicating that the inflow and outflow ratio remained significantly the same or in favour of the inflow. It can be concluded that total deposits record the trend in growth. The latest information I received this morning: 31.10. in two days in RS banks, deposits increased by 20 million marks. They don't have the same data, or consolidation of reports in the Federation and RS, so I could get a daily report. So, here, in two days in RS banks, deposits have been increased by 20 million marks, so citizens are returning their money that they raised and they probably put somewhere where they thought they were safe at that point. Any further activities? The indirect consequences of the crisis should be felt if there is a recession in the primary part of Europe. What remains to be done by the Council of Ministers, entity governments and other relevant institutions is a timely action to mitigate the indirect consequences of the global financial crisis. Despite encouraging indicators, he remains afraid that of the possible indirect consequences of both BiH's economy and the reduction of free placements. In this context, activities need to be undertaken in the way of funding for the liquidity of banks and the increase in placement through international financial institutions, as well as the creation of a favourable investment environment in BiH. Aware of the fact that there is no employment of citizens without investment remains further activity as the Council of Ministers, entity governments and other relevant institutions implement the above. In the context of certain relevances, the emphasis on further activities to mitigate the indirect consequences of the global financial crisis on the economy and citizens remains on the established Fiscal Council, which must, through available fiscal policy measures, work to reduce public spending and to secure development funds. For sure further reforms in meeting BiH's commitments on the European path are general measures that will lead BiH to a more favourable economic situation, thus avoiding any further possible crisis. Here, that would be the information, so we can discuss it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21632	I thank the Honorable Minister Vrankić. I'm opening a debate now. The first one was announced by the esteemed representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21633	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, I, above all, thank the minister for the quick reaction and preparation of this information even though I would be happier if we had received written information. My motive for initiating the debate on the issue of the financial crisis by the economy and the citizens of BiH and the measures taken to amortise it is that this home, as the most legislative body of BiH, is being transparently informed about this, not that we ourselves are dealing with return and co-evaluations and assessments. I must admit that after initiating this point, I also got certain, under quotes, suggestions and remarks in the direction that such discussions further encourage psychosis in one volatile time and ambience. Of course, it doesn't occur to me to encourage psychosis as I trust all of us, but it shouldn't occur to anyone to deceive citizens, in this case, depositholders. The results of a fraud like this 20 years ago, when we were saving our lives, convinced that their savings were safe, we didn't resuscitate today, and the citizens who believed today are experiencing nudity and humiliation for their own property. There is no doubt that the world faces a global problem of a financial crisis that is taking a step by step in a phase called the economic recession. The world has taken this seriously and has been discussing it in a transparent manner and is taking radical and rational steps, and the problem is that we are not taking enough or we are doing it late, so we are putting out the fire already. To date, the world economies have injected about 15 trillion dollars into the recovery and prevention of financial crises and recessions, and instead we prefer to do financial gymnastics that silences one and triggers another fire. The present time is serious and requires speed of action and concrete action, not shrunk hands and suggestions to be silent. The only bright spot in this period so far when it comes to BiH, I will say freely, is Governor Kozarić, who came out of the box, the truth, his constitutional jurisdiction, but his assessments and suggestions were beneficial and they woke up those who are both more competent and more in charge of talking about it. Kozarić is probably a little short of his tongue, and this is not compensated by the grades and moves of competent state institutions up to the last few days. Today, the world is less concerned with the financial crisis, and it is actively dealing with the repression of recession as its product or its second phase. I will not enter the credibility of data on the movement of deposits to banks in BiH, although I have some different data about it, but it must be said what the price of this financial gymnastics is. It was reduced, and the minister said, a mandatory bank reserve from 18% to 14% and thus was released 720 million KM. No doubt, it increased the liquidity of banks, but reduced 80 stability and increased the risk. I'll invest my deposit first in a bank that spends 18% on a mandatory reserve compared to the one that singles out 14%. How seriously we take the financial crisis and its consequences are that the proposal to increase the censorship from 7.5 thousand marks to 15,000 marks or 20,000 marks for more than a year was reportedly on hold at the Council of Ministers. It would also be useful to find in this case the possibility that the deposit censorship, guaranteed by the state, is in line with the one we have at least in the environment, which is the 50,000 euros. It may sound paradoxical, but the most impact on the stagnation of deposit-lifting from banks has not caused these several symmetry measures, but in my opinion, there have been several robberies of already raised deposits and such a danger of happening to those who transfer these deposits into stockings. Citizens today are more likely to face the risk of keeping deposits in the bank than in stockings. So, at present, the rush to raising deposits from banks is muffled, but more and more symptoms of recession are showing, and these are – the purchase of money in banks is increasingly expensive and the interest rates in absolute growth are from 1% to 5% depending on the type of credit and bank, with a further trend of growth. The tendency of the restrictive credit policy of banks and this trend also tends to further tighten. There is also a tendency of stagnation of a cost-effective demand, reduction of real estate prices and stagnation and such a low investment level. Investors are having further doubts, although even so far their mood for investment has not been something to boast about. In the case of employees, there is also an increased psychosis of job loss. In one word, we entered an area of increased uncertainty, whether we wanted to admit it or not. The only cure for this is rapid and systemic and preventive action. If we put out the fire and put it out the way we're used to, I'm afraid it'll choke us, if not the fire, smoke. At this stage and in this situation and the only rational solution to insist on systemic and preventive measures to combat and mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis, and now recession. And I, led by this belief and, of course, by the seriousness of the situation, suggest that this home draw two conclusions. The first conclusion is: - It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to draw up and bring a 'Strategy for the control and mitigation of the financial crisis and recession and their consequences for the economy and the citizens of BiH', of course, into which I would install what the minister has said is planned to take. The second conclusion is: - It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to provide three months of information to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the situation and measures taken to combat and mitigate the financial crisis and recession and their consequences for the economy and the citizens of BiH. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21634	I thank the honourable representative, Dolić. The next is the distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković, and let the distinguished representative Snježana Rajilić be prepared. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21635	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I greatly appreciate the ability and competence of the finance minister and I believe that there are more political wills in the ruling six... in order to ensure that economic measures are much more. My colleague Dolić ordered some important things. The deposit guarantee in our banks is several times smaller than in neighbouring countries. And I have a question of citizens, saving daily, "Why don't you guarantee us at least as much as the neighboring countries guarantee us?" And when you say it's so safe for the banking sector, which is where you transfer that responsibility to the savings, which you don't say isn't 20,000 marks, it's 100,000 marks. And there is a question and responsibilities for these 589 million marks raised from banks -- why this had to happen, because for so much money, it was practically denied the economy and the citizens of this country. A reduction in the minimum reserve rate may be a good measure, but it is not for this situation, but either the rates were too high before the crisis and before uncertainty, so we blocked the huge funds without need, because now that the uncertainty occurred, it was logical that those rates from 18 would increase to 22, that we had greater security. No, it had to be reduced, so we're insecurely reducing security, so that's not a measure appropriate to the situation, it can help, but it's actually not an appropriate situation where we are. We got a loan from the European Bank of 180m euros and that's great, excellent, but at the same time we lost a lot more money from banks. So it's practically the same move we did. The financial crisis has been reported to have huge consequences for BiH's economy. The external trade deficit that we have, which is growing dizzy, we have so far been covering mainly from the duties of our citizens and economic operators. In the last year alone, over 5 billion marks were owed by economic operators and owed to our citizens, which we had in the Central Bank report, and with that money we covered the external trade deficit. Our banks will certainly place less funds in the next period, because their mothers in other countries have no more resources than they had and logically will lead priority on their countries, not ours, and in fact most of the money will remain in their countries. The question arises: How will we be in charge this year and how will we be in debt next year to cover our external trade deficit? So the development of our economy is mainly based on bank loans and one part on foreign investment. It is not realistic to expect foreign investment in the coming period, as if there were no financial crisis, because normally, they will be drastically less, because economic development will be slowed down in EU countries where our investments came most from. So, without a series of measures we're going to take, we're actually going to have inconceivable consequences that, in our numbers, might not be significantly expressed, because when you're at zero, then you can't go any further below, you know, you're at zero. But the growth that we should have, as a country that wants to be in society with EU countries, is supposed to ensure that we catch up with EU countries will certainly be lagging behind. If you bring a series of quality measures, then maybe one part of that growth can be preserved. Our unemployment, where we have nearly half a million unemployed people, instead of falling drastically, will now start to grow, because we see that prices of products produced in BiH like aluminium and others fall drastically on the markets and will basically decrease 82 production and logically leave a number of people out of work. As a result, pension funds, health funds, no contributions and such small pensions, the question is how much is it going to be or whether it's going to have the desired growth that we should have, how we're going to have a health care service if we have even less money, and what we have is not enough. For this reason, I think that these proposals that Mr. Rifat has proposed are very good that we get a series of measures within 30 days, and I believe that the Minister of Finance knows what to do, but that he is given enough political will to do so, from the law on the protection of domestic production to which we should and protect ourselves at this point to raise additional funds to taxation of luxury goods, to new incentives to the economy, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21636	I thank the esteemed representative Ivanković. I don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. Here, you can have the Honorable Minister Vrankić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21637	I thank you for these discussions. I just want two things not to be explained. I would ask that we do not devaluation, in general, here I am, as Minister, to you MPs in Parliament, not to devalue the conclusions we cannot realize! Today I sit here, I respect this Parliament, we have a lot of work to do, I'm supposed to be in Banja Luka tonight, tomorrow we have a meeting of the Fiscal Council and a joint cabinet seat, etc. Normally that's what we're constitutionally competent to do. If you're in charge of some things, I'd ask you to change the Constitution and get that jurisdiction so I can do it. I can coordinate something, something I can use mechanisms like, I don't know, board of directors, something like a member of the Fiscal Council, etc. But in that context, I want to say two things. Let's not panic in BiH because it really isn't there. If such mechanisms had been in other countries, in America, there would have been no crisis. But the easiest thing to do is to prescribe restrictive measures for others, and that doesn't work for itself. They've created a mortgage crisis for the reason that they've raised 10 loans for the same facility, and when you come to the bank to raise a loan to, I don't know, your own house has to be three times the court's estimate of the loan. I think I've made it clear. And when it comes to reserves and insurance? In England, the bank reserve is 2%, and we were 18%. You see, the fact itself speaks of relationships. The question can be asked why we had 18%, and how can it be 14% now that we've adopted it? We are entering another sphere of questions and answers that enter the pure profession of both the banking and the financial system and I will give only one answer. One is a currency board; the other is our only mechanism, when we want to manage macroeconomicly with an external account. If I see in the structure of the debt of citizens to banks, the duties of total banks, to lead citizens! What are the citizens doing? They buy cars, buy modern furniture, etc., the goods come from imports, and then I raise the level of bank insurance. So I'm reducing their placements so they don't let the citizens stay out of debt. It's the only instrument I have. And often when I talked to the IMF and we discussed 83 current account deficits, then they tell us in their own way -- ban it. How am I supposed to keep people from buying a car that's imported and not domestic? So I can only take some indirect measures like here's an increase in the insurance reserves in banks so they have less placement than... How do you try to make the plasma increase in favour of the economy? Here, that's the question we need to discuss. How to create an environment in BiH to make it more worthwhile to work, to open a car factory in BiH more than in another country? That's the real question we have to make. We'll discuss the budget very quickly, I hope. Because of the adopted Law on Contributions to the Federation, we need 3% more budget in mass than we needed last year. It's not an investor's message. The social burden is probably high. People were probably forced to do so, but these are measures that are indirect, which have negative reflexes and in the overall context of measures, I think that energy needs to be spent, in such a way leading reforms, going into the process of stabilisation and association and creating an environment in BiH, at the cost of our own sacrifice, for a certain period of time to gain foreign investment. As much as someone was afraid of capital, I say that no capital is..., has only dirty and clean capital, fair and unfair, and for every fair capital welcome to BiH. We create an environment for him to have a better environment in BiH, to invest him here, then... people, we increase macroeconomic indicators and get out of the crisis. And it's the right thing to do, and that's how we can work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21638	I thank the Honorable Minister Vrankić. Dear Representative Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21639	I'd just like to replicate for a little while. He said, the truth is that there are mandatory reserves in England and Great Britain two percent, but the truth is that there is also a state guarantee for all deposits in total. Also, I have no doubt that the Council of Ministers does not know that they do not know what to do but all that the minister has said here is to put it on paper, to inform the Parliamentary Assembly as the most legislative body of this state. I don't think it should bother the Minister or the Council of Ministers and that it is our constitutional right to commit the Council of Ministers to these things in these situations.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21640	I thank the honourable representative, Dolić. Replica, the esteemed representative Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21641	I actually want to support everything the minister said. So, we create an ambience to make investments. The ruling six, listen to the minister you chose, let's get to 84 as soon as we can and have investments. Because without that ambience, obviously there won't be any. I'm willing to help wherever it takes, as long as it takes, to do it and, here we go through certain laws, like the law on the protection of domestic production is trying to... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21642	Thank you for your help. No more reports. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21643	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21644	Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21645	Thank you, Chairman. I appreciate when you conclude the debate but I really pressed the button in time to sign up, more like a replica than a discussion. I listened with attention to what my colleague Dolić read from the paper. Of course, I don't go into details and I wouldn't comment, but I do have a need, indeed, and colleagues Dolić and colleagues Ivanković on part of the discussions that concerned mandatory reserves to mention only that mandatory reserves serve to control multiple deposits, not to ensure the security of deposits in banks etc. So when you talk about that instrument, just focus a little bit in that direction. Secondly, when it comes to the security of the deposit you both called for in your discussion, I now refer only to discussions that were held by two colleagues, I would just remind you. By definition, I may be following a little bit more, of course, and I have to do it and just to remind you that the financial crisis, or this recession of the world economy, didn't start in October, didn't start in June this year, it's been pulling its roots, and since when. Take the exact stenogram from Parliament's session when I referred to the urgent procedure of the draft law amending the Deposit Insurance Act, with a proposal to increase deposits. I'm asking you to take along that stenogram, ever since the first signs of the event started, that listing that someone can often ask you to see how you two treated it. I apologize for speaking like this, but I want to draw attention to how much we sometimes put ourselves in a position for day-to-day or some other reasons, how sometimes we put ourselves in a position to get our own hands out of some pocket where they don't belong. I'm sorry I had to say this, but here, if I have to, and true, I'll tell you the dates and I know the exact state of the document as who voted. Thank you. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21646	Dear Representative Dolić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21647	First of all, I'm going to say, the teacher is usually used to giving lessons to students. I'm not a student, I'm a college graduate. About that, maybe, I'm practically less involved with it than she is. I'm sure, we can also check, then, that I didn't vote against any law that makes sense economically, because at least it's my profession. I'm sure I didn't vote. But thank Bog we've known since the start of the financial crisis, and so on, we've been following, even though we're not teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21648	No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. Proposal for a conclusion of the Transport and Communications Committee in the context of the debate on the point: Current situation in RTV BiH and implementation of the reform of the Public TV System in BiH On 24 October, the Committee for Transport and Communications submitted a proposal for a conclusion set out in this point. You've received a proposal from these conclusions. I'm opening a debate. The chairman of the Committee, distinguished representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21650	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to make a few comments this time as chairman of this committee, and then I'm going to get back to you, so I'm going to say, in a personal capacity through the discussion, and I'm going to separate those two so they don't get mixed up. So, you've got the conclusions. In the debate on the Commission we had, I think on three occasions, this would be some kind of summary and I can say that most of these conclusions were accepted unanimously, noting that some conclusions were adopted by the vote. I point out this by'revote' because at the beginning of this, let's call it a crisis, it is a crisis serious, and I would say even a political crisis, which is bad that it happened at the very beginning and the basic motto of starting this whole crisis was based or based on that one member of a people on the Management Board was too loud. So the others voted together, and one member was too loud. 86 When it comes to points 5 and 6, I must say that only Bosniak members of the Commission voted, to be direct and clear, no Hrvat and no Srbin voted in favour of these conclusions. Keep that in mind, and I will make my personal relationship to this and to these conclusions and to this whole situation if there is any need and if we discuss this session on this issue. Thank you very much. So this is in the capacity of the chairman of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21651	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21652	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, I just want to correct the wrong allegations. Namely, the chairman of this committee said that the conclusions under numbers 5 and 6. The Commission, i.e. the 5th and 6th votes were not attended by representatives of the Serbian and Croatian people, which is not true. They participated but pleaded in the Rules of Procedure as prescribed. They therefore participated in the vote, but were either against or abstentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21653	Thank you. Dear Representative Husein Nanić. It's not a replica. ... If anyone has a replica, I haven't seen it. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21654	... that they're too loud. [[no microphone turned on]] Please don't bend. I made it clear that the representatives of the other two nations were overvoted.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21655	I've got your replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21656	Thank you. Oh, come on, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21657	Dear Representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21658	I thank you, Chairman. I would like to contribute to the debate, through this item of the agenda, with one view that we here really had several discussions about the situation in BHRT as a service, with some 87 proposals – 12, as I recall, in the first debate, and finally we concluded that. Here, now we have, too, eight proposed findings regarding the situation in BHRT. The overvoted or not overvoted, mostly BHRT's condition is not good, the state of the system is not good. What we, as a Parliamentary Assembly, have become involved in these problems, too, I feel that it is not good and that we need to transfer responsibility and tasks to execute both these conclusions and those previous and resolution of BHRT status to people who are responsible for it, both by the Constitution and by law, and by the salaries they receive. Here's something that's said, I just want to mention, asking not to challenge the opportunity for replication. As the story here is that either a loud or a majority or a minority, in the decisions of the Management Board, the biggest problems resulting from this being that a representative of the constituent people, one of the constituent people, has been completely ignored in the Management Board and reputed all the time. And she has a significant result of this condition that's in BHRT. In that sense, I would only as a member of the Commission who conducted these talks, the long-term ones, we were doing some research, in the end, now we have a review report, we have a recovery plan, I would ask the Parliamentary Assembly to do more of this problem, I expected it to say and the chairman of the Commission, not to return to the Commission. Really, I don't see any point in us discussing it anymore. And, I do not have reservations according to these conclusions, these are possible conclusions that need to be adopted to give responsibility and tasks to members and board members and service management and we have new facts that have occurred, which point to the correctness of the previous conclusions made by the Commission regarding the decision of the Court of Justice on the order to return the Director to work and the decisions of the Ombudsman, etc. I don't want to do this. So I'm trying not to challenge the replicas further, so I would lobby fellow MPs to finish the story with BHRT by adopting these conclusions and to give responsibility to the people who have been elected, and that through their reports we are looking for responsibility if they are successful or not successful.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21659	Thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Is it a replica? It's a replica, isn't it? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21662	Well, two things. ... I agree that he is not going back to the Commission because it would be best if the Commission hadn't discussed this. We'd have a better situation. It has further complicated the matter and has led us to the situation, instead of fixing the matter and relaxing it and to contribute to the debate, it has led to what it has led to with these conclusions on the Commission. So, I'm okay with that, but for these reasons, it's not coming back to the Commission anymore. The other thing is, there's no recovery plan. No plan to resuscitate the BHRT system. We are on the Finance Commission yesterday to learn of even more devastating facts and an even more difficult situation that, according to the information presented yesterday on the Finance Commission, svet Petar cannot determine the financial situation. One, you don't know whose buildings or property or anything else are there, and the Commission was conducting a rescue operation for the Rajan, knowing what was behind it. Instead of objectively looking at things, not complicated them, to make a contribution, because here, this reminds me of what was in the former Yugoslavia when something was defended because of something that was unprotected. And here everyone sees that something that, in a way, one kind of policy doesn't need to be defended, it goes on. It's inconceivable, incomprehensible that the management that led to all these problems suddenly twists things, even though we all know the jurisdiction and the board of directors and everything. Instead of objectively opening up the debate and seeing how we're going to get out of it, we're defending one, we're persistently defending one policy that's indefensible. But okay, let's see what he comes up with.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21663	Dear Representative Selim Bešlagić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21664	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I have been aiming, since I am a member of this committee, and I must say that the Commission has received a very difficult task. A little, little bit, so come back to her to discuss something that seems to me that Mr. Džaferović said, when we passed some laws on the judiciary, that we did something, and we didn't prepare that judiciary for execution, so we had to return those delinquents that were inadmissible to court again, did we? Also, when the Corporation was formed, that is, when the Public TRV Service was formed, we did not then say what financial means to provide it. So what happens now? It just happens that this TV is just pulling debts from federal television, from this, from that, and what's happening now? The Management Board has been appointed. The Board of Directors shall be appointed by the Director-General the day before its expiry. We accepted it as a fact, because we thought, come on, management can get out of that situation, so they brought here a new director whom we accepted but didn't pass a year and a half and the Management Board re-scheduled management. We asked the question, "How long will you be changing directors?" So we're not going in there, I'd say, the gene of what's been going on, because there's something that can't be solved, and it's not this management that's to blame when it's happened from the moment of formation to this time. The audit committee found that this management has played its part. That he improved the condition but that the debts that weren't covered that they were literally being dragged away from the time they were going there. And the other thing, I think that we, these conclusions as our chairman said, these conclusions are, I mean, come on out of these eight conclusions, six have been reached unanimously. I think 89 that this conclusion, too, was unanimously reached, because... it was changed. But the fact is that in the meantime... what we asked of the Ombudsman, what we asked for, we expected it to happen. I didn't believe the same way Mr. Slavko Jovičić didn't believe that the court would make such a quick decision. I don't know how that decision came, but the court has made a decision that is what it is. I don't discuss it. We'll discuss the court's decision when we discuss the courts, etc. The Ombudsmen gave his, which says that the Commission, I am now speaking to the Commission, without distinction as we voted, had a good intention when she said and suggested she was under management to put, I would say, on waiting for that decision to calm things down a little bit, and I think the Commission's conclusions went that way. And one more thing that's very important. I think without the difference that we put in, if we don't solve what's very important, and that's the financial side, I think we're going to put in another director, and then we're going to change maybe the board of directors, but these things are going to go a long way for the loss that's been going away from the moment, let's say, until this corporation is formed. We have, in that sense, suggested, and this is the first conclusion where I agree with you, Mr. Kalabić, we have said here, or where it was, that the Board of Directors of BHRT should implement all the conclusions of the 32nd session, because it is said there, and that means that it will create a resolution programme and propose it and deliver it before we discuss the BiH institutions' budget. Why am I saying that?? I speak for one simple reason that there was no pressure on anyone and don't blame us. These were our views, etc., in which there was no voting, but there was a vote that was so, and we said that it was necessary for federal television, or state television, or, let's say, TVBiH to create a resolution programme and to go before this Parliament and to approve the funds. I've been trying to get some data these days. The Republic of Serbia's TV company has a 50m-euro benefit from the state. HRT TV, Croatia's TV has a benefit of 350m euros. And that's what we said: how we're going to digitise and how in Europe if we don't, like Parliament, give some kind of consent to certain means that we could go, noting that the issue of debts that are not management debts is now or tomorrow...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21665	Time, you've exceeded your time for replication.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21666	...we need to get rid of it in the time that's coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21667	Although I'm not sure who you're replicating. Any more replicas? Dear Representative Kalabić, another replica, the other. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21668	Well, as far as we're concerned, I'm sorry we can't pass on yesterday's debate, but here, they were colleagues from the Budget and Finance Commission when one of the financial directors of that house refused to come to the Commission. He's not coming at all, he has nothing to discuss with us. When the representative of the auditory house... said what was impossible there, how you could talk about the recovery program, when management wouldn't get in the way of ending that insight story in that house at all. How can 5 million covert liabilities appear? How are they possible and how he wants to get this parliament to buy a cat in a bag, in a way, and finely yesterday, it was said that some houses came out of the situation. While some were asleep, some came up with the painful scenes and everything else that went and said, the remarks of people who did not want to and from the Governing Board. Why some people do not want to participate and the consequences of this non-participation are totally visible and completely clear. We heard that from people yesterday. You can't, he says, when he presses the button, he doesn't know what's coming out. But it was done on purpose and people fenced themselves. So in order to even talk about the recovery program, someone has to participate in the story to tell us what's going on there. How is it possible for people to register as income from the Council of Ministers a million marks that they didn't receive and which is probably a question of whether they would get, and people would book, while at the same time explaining their income from the satellite programme to no one why they didn't charge it, where it stands, while much smaller television houses have booked much more income and signed it up. And so I'm not counting. On several occasions, we talked about these things here. So, without that situation, no insight, and I'm asking why? Why doesn't management want it to predicate, why won't they tell us what it's all about, what it's about, and then we'll see what we're gonna do with it? But without insight or rejection, because he has the protection of that management of someone and he doesn't want to! We also know about jurisdiction, what the responsibilities of the Management Board are, what the responsibilities of management are. Who's got access and who's responsible for what? Don't mess it up. I mean, we need to be real here, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21669	Replica, the distinguished representative of Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21670	I thank you, Chairman. This is a little more of a commentary. I really do not want to participate as an MP in any, under quotes, chasing or protecting any management under any other questions or interests, etc. Here, these are the conclusions that don't require or do. They're clear. It clearly states who they refer to, and in this sense it will also help us MPs to knowingly finish our work on this matter and to look, here, for responsibility both from the Governing Council and from management, etc. We did not have the opportunity to discuss this review report on the Commission. I wish we were. We didn't have one. He's got a competent commission to do that. When we get a position on the review, we'll figure it out. I hope you'll prepare him well. And in that sense, he shouldn't affect the overall state. Here we have the Management Board in front of us which has a lot of problems, here and management and the Management Board of certain things have done together and we have a situation like this, we have offered 91 conclusions. So I'm really not about these things getting mixed up and they're not mixed up in these conclusions, they're clear about them, and I think when we have a commitment, we're going to have a clearer attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21671	Chairman, correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21672	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, here, to make my contribution a little bit like this to this story of what an older chicken or egg is here. And the correction of the incorrect assumption is that I have to say, first of all, I don't know what this commission was caused to offer us a proposal for these conclusions. From whom did they receive assignments, from this home, or from some report, or from some information, or from some law that is in the process? On what grounds did the Committee even discuss what he was discussing? I'm not gonna say it's bad that they discussed it. There's a whole series here, I have to say, no offense to the members of the Committee, a whole series of contradictions in these proposals of conclusions. And adopting these conclusions in the package would be accepting, our acceptance to rush into a trap that someone pushed the Commission into. Why don't you tell us who pushed you into it? Where do you need to discuss this? Have you requested information from the board of directors about this? You're not. You're not, you're not, just take it easy. We ask the Management Board for responsibility and this Parliament is the only one who has the right to seek responsibility. This parliament has the right to say whether something has been done illegally. You've been giving information to the public that the board of directors has been illegally replacing. I don't know who authorized you, Commissioner. Based on what? That's what you think when you're comfortable with something sometimes, you're right. Well, then you don't have to ask Parliament to do this. Keep using that right. Don't bother us with this, 'cause this is boring. This proposal for a conclusion that you have offered here, this fifth - the Commission considers something. What's the commission? Listen, the Commission thinks something. These are Parliament's conclusions. If the proposal is the conclusion of the paralament, the House of Representatives, because in the previous one, it says - Parliament's House of Representatives proposes. That could be some kind of suggestion conclusion. It has entered something here that, in my opinion, it is not absolutely good to involve this parliament. I am for us to seriously, on the basis of serious information, discuss the state in the Public TV System, and then in this BH service, always at every session. But in principle, not only when we estimate at one point that who here is threatened there at the service. The other day, in order to prepare himself at all, I knew what I was going to discuss today, meaning this topic, called, in my opinion, an independent, someone said today an expert, an expert, a man who's 30 years of reputation, at least that's what I think, a journalist, who happens to be not working in any of the public broadcasters in BiH, who used to work and deny on one of these broadcasters and for your information, who, on purpose, wanted me to get an objective picture, is not a Hrvat man. I wanted a real picture, so I wouldn't be carried by some kind of, I don't know, I blame my emotions, to create a real picture of the state of our public service. The man first told me, after we said goodbye,... and told me about this - in that service I am to my friend the Director General, here, who was removed, so as not to be removed, so we don't know, we'll see what, I don't even know, said, 'What's wrong with you, so if the Management Board won't, what is it like, he's the extended arm of the Founder. Where do you even want to keep working with them?" And it really makes sense, man speaks logically. But then he said, "Until you change the status of the relationship in total, there is no management, no board of directors who will do the order there and that will ensure the recovery of this Public TV service." 92 If we have the will and desire to get into it, that's another question. I do, but not in this way, I have to tell you the truth. So I have both will and desire. One of these suggestions for conclusions, it seems to me to be the 7th, may be on the trail of some possible solution, a serious solution. Although I'm also an expert -- I don't want to profane a man here, so to speak, because I think he had good intentions, correct etc., so here's what I appreciate is his good intentions – he's thinking alike. He suggests to me, suggesting that Parliament set up some sort of expert commission, so I told him: "Friend, it's impossible because I'm going to propose my expert, my colleague Šefik will propose his expert, my colleague Dokić will propose his own, and immediately this is no longer an independent expert commission. And I don't know who in this country can propose anymore. And I would like to have someone who will propose an independent expert commission that will, independently, fully independent but professionally determine the true state of affairs, which we will not politically bid here and propose possible solutions to both the Public TV system and all services in this country function to the satisfaction of all of us who are talking about taking care of these services. I've used this as a replica, because I think I've got some debates, I know how many debates have been reported, I can see there's a replica, and I'm not sure how we're going to discuss how we're going to help this, or the service or the whole system. But here, if you think you should, we can move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21673	Džaferović, replica. Is it an incorrect quote or a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21674	Mr. Chairman, I am, frankly, a little surprised by your notion of the role of parliamentary committees. The parliamentary commission has an obligation to monitor the situation in the area for which it exists and to go with proposals to Parliament and what we have here today are mainly proposals to the House of Representatives to say - is good or not good. That's one thing, then. Secondly, I agree with you that the Management Board should do its job, that the Management Board is a team of people sent by this Parliament to do their job down on behalf of Parliament. But I'm just going to list a few facts right now. Is it okay for a man appointed to a five-year term at a meeting of the Management Board, according to the agenda point – shifting directors, author? No procedure whatsoever, and the term of office is five years, watch out!? No responsibilities, no stories, but no commission, no responsibilities. If I were to elaborate further, the parliamentary commission said: don't do it, put it back. They say we don't respect it. Says the Ombudsman: Guys, it's not okay! They're not even considering it! Says the BiH Court, hey, Court: get the man back to work. They say we're not clear on what job. I've just presented these facts, so let's ask ourselves now who we have chosen below to represent us or to conduct the interests of this Parliament at the Public TV Service. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21675	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21676	I have listened closely to your replica or your shortened form of discussion that you have had and I must be honest that I am also surprised by your understanding of the role of the commission. In fact, as the Commission, we were assigned by the College, as I recall, to consider this situation regarding the situation on BHRT. On the other hand, I don't know why the MPs should be asking anyone to come forward in public on any matter. And thirdly, as a member of the Commission, I consider myself responsible if we do not do anything, and it seems to me that each of us should, in accordance with the Law on Public TV Service, BHRT, Article 29, which speaks of the basic role of the Management Board, that is, its powers and tasks. So under point k) is said: "It presents to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the public annual financial plans and programme plans and reports on the implementation of these plans." Here, I've been in this house for two years, and I don't remember having one time considered this question, even though it's the legal obligation of the board of directors. It should therefore raise the question of the responsibility of the Management Board in front of this home as the founder of this service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21677	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21678	Replica, first replica. Chairman Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21679	I don't dispute your right, dear colleagues, to be surprised by my argument and my advance, but I don't know why you're surprised that I'm surprised by the Commission's advance. So one standard you have for yourself, and the other for the rest of the world, that's what I reacted to. That's the problem, you have to have the same principles. So, one standard you have to have for yourself and for me, I'm trying to have the same standard for you and for myself. So, I'm not surprised that you did this the way you did. But that's not the way I justify it. That's all I said. I do not know what provision of the Rules of Procedure, which provision you have drawn to speak, to reach the conclusion that you are bound by the Management Board to annul the decision. The commission did that. I don't know what regulation of the Rules of Procedure you're authorized to do. You have the right to propose here to Parliament, it's one dimension, but I was saying that you suggested it and that you asked the Management Board not of Parliament, but of the Management Board long before you provided information to this Parliament. To be correct, you do not have the right as much as you think you are right, nor does the ombudsman Pašić, as an individual, have the right to make a stand on behalf of the Ombudsman Institution. He's got no right either, but man obviously uses that right, which we're going to do now! That's why we need the transition of this institution. We need another ombudsman institution. But okay, he's used it many times so far, so what do we do, here's obviously not working. 94 We have a lot of things that aren't right, so it's not okay, obviously. We can talk about the work of the Management Board of the Public TV Service. We had their information, so we had information that the chairman of the board of directors, I'll remind you a little bit, sit here, and the manager sits upstairs. And after the chairman of the board of directors submitted the information, the manager also showed how much he holds onto that board of directors we sent to manage that service. So he asked him to give special information, because he doesn't respect the board of directors. Will we accept that as a rule of work? So we can't do that. So, I am in favour of us assessing the work and range of the Management Board and that's all, and the Management Board has the power to assess management. And to appoint him and to relieve him. So that's why we sent him there. Or are we doing it here? Then we have to change the law. So I'm only talking about principles, business and otherwise principles according to the law I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21680	Marković, replica. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21681	To inform the MPs. Dear MPs have been reported: Jovičić, Rajilić, Bećirović, Džaferović, in fact it was a replica; Živković, Jukić, Dokić was registered for discussion, and here is Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21682	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The replica does not refer to Mr Lozančić's presentation, while saying that with one part of his discussion, or replication, he agrees, but refers to the previous two discussions. It is incomprehensible that here, through the various performances and the elaborates that have been done so far, the Commission is trying in all possible ways, or part of the Commission... to manage this house, to say, protect and simply remove all responsibility from it. But we will also transfer the responsibility to the Management Board, so here we are to Parliament and the Council of Ministers and to all those who have not supported the work of that house. And we had in several previous reports and in several previous discussions about this house the situation is clear and unequivocal that this house is in financial bankruptcy. That she's completely organized and technically disorganized and has big problems in her business. This is what we heard from the board's representatives and from, in some reports, here's this commission, and I'm really wondering what the goal is and what is the intention of the management that is first responsible and in charge of the positive and well-organizing and business and work of that house, which has failed, to express myself, and who has failed to perform its role, should now be protected and amnested from all responsibility, and the Management Board finds guilty which asked that management to explain itself and say why the debt was hidden, why the real financial situation did not appear, why many other things the management did not want to respond to? And now it's up to the board of directors to replace it, to seek someone's responsibility. 95 Let me sit down and say it in one sentence. This house is definitely in big trouble and it will be found according to the 2007 report, we will see that, in fact, it is simply in the deep metastasis of its problems. And what he's trying to do now under some conclusions and under, let's say, to read between the lines, to prepare the situation for the future 2009 budget to get through and, let's say, to support financial and all these losses, to cover all these losses from the budget, and we'll just talk about it when there's a budget story and we'll just see if this institution and whether the Council of Ministers and even the taxpayers of BiH are going to cover someone's irresponsibility and financial coverage of what someone is, probably, wrong and wronged the law and didn't perform their role as they were meant to do. Are we just going to say, well, that is, Serbia gives so much for its service, Croatia gives, let us give! Now, we're just gonna talk about it when the budget's over and see if that's how it goes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21683	Dear Representative Selim Bešlagić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21684	Well, here I am, trying to bring some tone of tolerance and debate, I am not surprised by Mr Lozančić's discussion, except what we and the Commission have said: that these are the conclusions of the Commission that go to Parliament and, which is accepted as a conclusion, that is Parliament's conclusion. It's not this, these aren't the conclusions that we thought would pass, so we've also listed where it went unanimously, where it went with a certain one, let's say, by revote. And secondly, state television is state television. This parliament, which has been our metastasy television, must find a solution either for a good operator to cure this disease or with financial means to solve it, but to establish and establish a system that will function. Because I'm ashamed and ashamed that TVBiH turns off at 12:00 and it's gone all night, and TVRS, TVS, TVH works 24 hours. If we want, as a system, to have TVBiH, then we must make such a decision as Parliament, not obstruct that part. I'm not interested in entity television at all, I'm interested in TVBiH. And I am clear and loud here, and when the budget debate is over there, I will be even stronger in these things, if the management of television and the Management Board or, rather, the Management Board proposes the recovery programme that we have said in point 1. Therefore, I believe that the conclusions that are here are the proposed matter of this Parliament, which will be adopted, what will be the conclusion of Parliament – all that is not adopted, all that is not adopted is not the conclusion of this Parliament, it is the work of this commission. And I was surprised you didn't think the Commission was working. I would ask Mr Dokić, I think he has just insisted on these things, that we give the conclusions that go to Parliament, Parliament will adopt. And we discussed what we got as a mission and a conclusion. And one more thing, I would like to be clear, I would ask the members of the Commission to come to the meetings of the Commission, not to be lectured and lectured here. Because if we come to a session of the Commission, and they don't come, and now they're giving me a lecture here, I don't think that's right and it's not fair. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21685	Thank you. Next registered for replica: the distinguished representative Snježana Rajilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21686	And you know what, I wanted to wait for the discussion all the time and, look, I didn't think I was replicating it, but now it's really over. The financial resources, you're going to be in the budget to get, this kind of house to get the funding, and you're going to have such a debate in that sense. Well, that's a shame unseen. So, I can't figure out that you can, like the gentleman I really respect, say it. The house that we, which I, here, gave to, on July 9th and 14th, ordered what to do and she did not move her finger until the 11th month, you say you need to resuscitate the house. Oh, he's going into bankruptcy, he's in bankruptcy, he's sending her, he's making a new one, but this one's no good! I can't figure it out. Second, you're saying about the Commission? No matter what I come to the Commission, anything that doesn't belong to this house, I'll be voted upon. I don't want to come at all. So we say you should, like, like this, like this, like this, no, you have no idea. What are we talking about, the Ombudsman here, who's the Ombudsman, we want to talk about choosing him for three months? How can this man write anything at all, is he legal, legitimate? Well, he is, how old he is, how many months his mandate has expired, and he can write whatever he wants. So come on, please, so do we even have a measure towards this house? I want to tell you, right here, and I'm going to go to the discussion, and I'm asking the parliamentary question the answer to where the funds are being spent. This same gentleman is looking for funds again, he won't send one MP where he spends them. Is that a shame on this house? And we need her to protect and protect one name and last name or five names and last names sitting there? And we can't deal with it for days and we've been dragging someone around for days, and when we talk to the RS that the RTRS system, or RTRS, is in the office, and we need to copy it there, and we're looking for a conclusion, then he says no, so we need everything to get into the system, and we're going to see what it is. Why didn't the other TVs solve their problems? They didn't want to, and we didn't, and you didn't ask what it was like when the workers were fired and when we MPs called, I don't know what we're letting down the number of employees in RTRS.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21687	Replica, the distinguished representative Ajanović, and the distinguished representative Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21688	In the end, it's good to have it now at least given. First, we need to start with one fact, because that's what all MPs need to come from that fact, that RTBiH was robbed after the war. She was robbed by legal means – breaking that television into multiple systems. That, among other things, was done in the Federation Parliament, where I was and this is what I'm saying right now. And when that television was created, when it was created sometime in 63, 64, it was a terrible resistance to the creation of that television because it was considered enough television in Zagreb and Belgrade. And now we want to shut down the television that's needed as state television again. 97 And now the replica. We swear here to build a legal state. The basic premise is in the rule of law: when the court makes a decision that it must be respected! And therefore, if we were a real parliament, we wouldn't – whether the court's decision is right or not, it would be a second-degree court, because we can't say if someone complains about it – but if we were the right parliament, we would at the moment be the man who is chairing the board of directors, saying'me don't commit court decisions', so he's absolutely working against the law. And that's why I think, in order to resuscitate this situation in tv, that we need to support these conclusions made by our Transport Commission, and that the second step is that we need to replace both the Management Board and the Management Board, and only then can we make a recovery of that house. Well, that's what they do, please, and in the U.S., a private bank, if you're watching, they take away its management, because it's of particular interest to the state and they're resuscitating it to stop a particular tower. And RTBiH is of particular interest to this country. And we can't treat her like a stepmom. We have to try and find out, and last management has exactly why he came into this situation. He came into this situation because they took everything from that tv, and they let her take care of the workers. So, please, that house has to be rehabilitated, and it's got to be rescheduled by the state. So, we have to take care of it in the budget, too. Whether someone liked it or not, we have to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21689	Second Vice-President Milorad Živković, replica of this, but I apologize, before it was the replica of the respected representative Bećirović, I apologize, Mr Deputy.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21690	I have to say, unlike all the previous debaters within this agenda point, my looking at this agenda point is something different. Namely, the BHRT issue, but also some other media, I'm looking at two things in the context. And I already said that here once, so it was a salva replica after that discussion. First, in the context of unremembered and unprecedented intimidation and pressure both on BHRT and on independent media in BiH. And secondly, in the context of a major collapse of media independence in BiH. Why do I say that? We all want to join the EU here. Everyone here voted for the signing and ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. All have made a declarative commitment to the implementation of this Agreement. We all want an agreement, but when it comes to respecting the evaluations, attitudes and criteria of European institutions, then we come up with a certain problem. If this Parliament cannot come to a common position on some things, why at least we do not respect the European Parliament's views. The European Parliament resolution of 23 October 2008 at point 27 makes it very clear what the problem is in BiH. I must say that I will not interpret this European Parliament's position at all, but I will quote it in order to avoid any replicas. The European Parliament, therefore several weeks ago, literally said: "The European Parliament is expressing concern over the climate of intimidation of the media against activities to protect human rights and civil liberties in general, 98 which prevails in the RS and asks political leaders to recognise the significant role of independent media and NGOs in the democratic life of their entity." Now, this is not my opinion, this is the position adopted in the European Parliament resolution. Will we go to the EU and deny the official views of the European Parliament now? This is a shame for the country when the European Parliament adopts this attitude. But this is very clearly marked by the European Parliament – where is the problem in this country? In this way, we are destroying BiH's path towards the EU, and I think we should deal with the essence of the problem when it comes to BHRT, but also other independent media in this country. And I'll end up with another sentence. BHRT and independent media in this country can no longer be spoken of without respecting this position of the European Parliament. Whether someone likes it or not, that's another thing, but we're going as an EU, we signed the Agreement, and, colleagues, let's start to respect the official attitudes and resolutions of those bodies that we want to, is that, to integrate, to go, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21691	Thank you. The second deputy president, Milorad Živković, is respected.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21692	Thank you, Chairman. Namely, I will report for the discussion later, but the replica is about the presentation of the respected Professor Ajanović and the need for BiH to have television, as it has, so you cited Belgrade and Zagreb as having to have Sarajevo as well. The problem with BiH television is that I believe that this is your reaction and reaction from political parties, Bosniak political parties, if they can be called the Sarajevo media or media that have centres in Sarajevo, trade unions and the like, confirms that BHRT is a Bosniak institution and an institution of the Sarajevo charter. For the simple reason that all the money is there, with the money running the management, we've seen the way it is. And one Management Board that wants to revise these costs, put into legal frameworks, be attacked, not to say, and say that this Sarajevo TV should implement Bosnian-Herzegovic policy in its programme, not Sarajevo policy in this programme. That's why we think it's not Bosnian Herzegovic TV. And when Mr. Bećirović speaks of pressures, you certainly have a letter that the Independent Union of Employees of the Public TV System in BiH has announced, where he says that the Management Board is no longer welcome in the RTV building. Is that pressure on the board of directors, is that a threat? What is this relationship between employees and institutions in the same institution? It's not pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21693	Here's a replica in this order. First, the esteemed representative Marković, then the esteemed representative Rajilić, then the esteemed representative of Prodanović, then the esteemed representative of Dokić, then the esteemed representative of Izetbegović, and then we will make the order again. 99
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21694	I was looking for a word for an incorrect quote, and the incorrect quote refers to the presentation of Mr Ajanović, who tells us here the story of RTBiH as if in July we hadn't read the reports of that house, where this report and management and the Management Board and total management were. And where it's nice to say that, in the Management Board's report, BHTV has completely unexplained relations with federal television, especially with regard to marketing, where it was long obliged to organise its marketing, to organize the service. She did nothing, but hired private agencies through federal television under very vague conditions and circumstances to which big money was given for marketing that house. And you're telling us now that it's supposed to cover the state and that the state is behind it. I am telling you again, the state, or the official BiH institutions, cannot and should not cover what has not been verified, where no audit has been carried out and where it has not been proven, yet, and confirmed whether there is someone's responsibility for illegal business, and we have seen in this report that there are indications for certain things in business that they were illegal, so there was an illegal business. So, under such circumstances and under such conditions, you're asking that the Bianca State cover only someone's loss and put a point on it. I am earlier on, what my colleague Railić said, that house is in front of bankruptcy and needs to be aware of in the legal frameworks and in this situation, which is bankruptcy and liquidation, and, if necessary, to establish a new one, but based on sound foundations. You can't convince anyone from the RS, when I say from the RS, then I mean taxpayers that they should give someone of their own personal income, of their salary to finance what is first unsatisfactory, programming and editorial policy, without talking about what the public in BiH knows that this house has been doing for many years and has been doing under very suspicious circumstances in the situation that it has not been clarified and has not been proven. I'm asking for a cleanup first. So, let's see who's responsible here? Who did what wrong with the law, how did he do and do business? So we can talk about whether or not we're going to cover that debt, if we're going to bring that house into bankruptcy, if we're going to start another tv house? It's all about some new story.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21695	Dear Representative Rajilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21696	I give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21697	Dear Representative Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21698	My koleginica Members and fellow MPs, in fact, I would like a shorter replica, a correction of the wrongful quote by the respected Professor Ajanović. But, in fact, I want to say that, what the professor said, that the robbed television, the public TV service of BiH after the war that it was split up -- it's not that, it's not true. He's just being built in accordance with the law. And it is in the interest of BiH, in the interest of this parliament 100 and BiH citizens, to complete the constitution in accordance with the law. So we have public tv services of entities, federal and RS, RTRS, and that we have state-owned public TVBiH, and then we have a corporation. Unfortunately, I have to say here that I disagree with another finding that is present. And she refers to this: I am concerned about the way the parliamentary commission works, with the full respect of each member. This commission must not assume on itself a function of executive nature, not of control and legislative nature as part of Parliament, therefore of control, and within Parliament legislative. And in this story, there is endless politicisation that applies to only one marginal thing in terms of which the RTV service is encountered. I want to say, it is a completely marginal issue of the director of any institution, BiH-level institutions, in relation to the implementation of the programme and its stability, whoever it is. I do not believe in the objectivity of the institutions until as long as I am defended by a Srbin, while Bošnjak defend Bošnjak. In this country you don't defend yourself by nationality... I don't believe it, absolutely. It's absolutely politicizing. There is even one suspicion that is very dangerous for parliamentarians to question the court's decision. It's a very dangerous and worrying question. I won't, court decisions should be respected, but I must say immediately: such reactions are very suspicious. The Commission has come out of its framework, from Article 45, which defines its work. The Commission has the right to hold a debate on what Parliament has given it for its task, and these are only two issues when it comes to public service. It is a report on the work of the Management Board, as this parliament appoints members of the Management Board. The second question is that Parliament is having a debate on the business of the BiH Public TV Service, in line with the report by the BiH Institutions' Audit Office and in line with the report by the committee responsible in Parliament. Any other question is a complete inverse of these issues relating to the Commission's request for reports on the work of the Management Board, and that the Management Board should implement a policy in accordance with the law and its own specific mandate. We will never resolve the issue by leading the debate, introducing even one paradoxical situation for the union to discuss the issue. So, gentlemen, I think we're wasting our time. We here need to ask a question, this is amazing, for me it's worrying that here when the debate was being held last year the director was sitting on one side, and the board of directors on the other side. Please, Parliament cannot change the director, Parliament can raise the responsibility of the Management Board unless it works in accordance with the law. If we're discussing changing directors, we're taking over intelligence and executives. We can't do that! What kind of message are we sending to the citizens of BiH? We want to be... no capacity for either control or legislative. So much, just, so I'm against this kind of report, especially when it refers to personal protection for anyone. I do not want to speak, I believe that an institution is much more important than any individual and that in that institution should be brought into order the way of business, the way of organization, the completely clean relations between the Federal RTBiH and the RTBiH Public Service. And in this whole story, then there won't be these dilemmas that I'm talking about. I don't want to plead whether we need something or not. But I argue, those who advocate this part of the story, one is absolutely right, the other are not, that we are destroying the Public TV service of BiH completely unconscious! I don't want to influence that debate. So I just wanted to say, I don't agree with the perception of the overall state. I am against the work of the Commission in the way anyone works, with full respect for anyone. The Commission 101 was ultimately politicised, dealing with issues that were not at all in its jurisdiction. And we've been doing it in public for a few months. In a year, we're not one... and now we're gonna make unions, now we're gonna make barricades there. We're not gonna do anything to make this work properly. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21699	Dear Representative Dokić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21700	Mr. Chairman, my replica is to Ajanović. I hope that one part of his discussion is a product of ignorance in the details of things or maybe it's according to that one philosophical thought, which says, "It's obvious to everyone that the oak is obvious from the grain on the oak but if we look too much at the grain, it suddenly becomes more obvious to us." Obviously, we often look at small things and give priority to these little things. But here's what my replica refers to. The part where Mr. Ajanović says the board of directors does not respect the court's decision, I don't think that finding really stands. Here, I have to say, I'm getting the circumstances I have the court's solution in front of me and that's why I'm going to read you some things. I'm not interpreting them at all, I'm reading them. There are two decisions of the court. In this solution, one: to prohibit the defendant from continuing any activity in the selection of the Director-General, so to suspend the competition and the Management Board has suspended the competition. The second, I read, is therefore not to interpret: 'It is necessary for the defendant to return to work without delay and pay him adequate compensation during the length of the litigation procedure.' Furthermore, in the light of their decision, why they have made a provisional measure, it says, again, I read not to interpret: 'In this state of affairs, given the subject matter of the case and the claim made, the Court appreciates that there are conditions for a temporary measure to prohibit public competition for the election of the General Director of RTV BiH. The status of the file indicates that on the day of the discharge of the motionor from the post of Director-General, Jakov Jurčević was appointed as acting as acting official, thus not prejudiced the functioning of the defendant in relation to the management of the business, representation and representation of BHRT, as well as that responsibility for the legality of the business and implementation of the decisions of the Management Board, in accordance with the provisions of Article 32." The Management Board considered this because of this, this sentence, that they needed to say which job, although I don't think there's any dilemma here, going back to work on this,...what I read to you, is not returning to the director's post. But here's the board of directors made a compromise proposal that everybody's on about, okay? So, here, if I may say so, forget my comment. Take what I read. And the board of directors, here's what it says in this paragraph that I read, asked this court to say which place of work.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21701	Dear Representative Izetbegović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21702	So my replica is either on the discussion or on the replica of co-chairing Mr. Živković in connection with the claim that this is Bosniak, Sarajevo TV, right? You know, there are media that are under the influence of politicians and charters of Sarajevo, Banja Luka, etc. And if one of the 102 of them isn't under any influence, then that's this television. At least so far, I'm not... that anyone has any special influence over her and that she's ruling towards the wishes of some politicians. And I think maybe that's her problem, that that's what started her problem, that she didn't want to resort to a strong politician. And then these bankruptcy stories started, or they'll listen, or they'll have financial problems until the bankruptcy. So probably the director was wrong, right, so the board thinks he should be replaced. The Governing Board, however, may have been wrong, for the Ombudsman warns him that he could not have done something like this, and the Constitutional Court warns him. Well, maybe this commission was wrong, too, I see in Parliament there's a reaction to her work, so it can happen that... There are probably also problems and financial problems there, bad work and so much to fix, do from that television, so maybe that director will go, too, and the board of directors will probably go, so maybe this commission will go, and then one day this parliament will, in two years, split up and someone else will come, but the TV will stay. sanak lets her know that this TV is going to go bankrupt, that it's going to be new. Every Bosnian-Herzegovina institution will stay and don't go in that direction at all to stop it, not to give it money, to lead her into bankruptcy. You'll just be making troubles that you won't be able to get out of later. So, there's television, they can be changed and editors-in-chiefs, and directors, and boards, and we can be changed, and all of this can be changed, but don't go to that to shut down, because you won't do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21703	Dear Representative Ajanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21704	She used to be my replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21705	I apologize, I apologize, Bećirović before, and then you are later, right now. There's a lot of you for a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21706	I want to say something about Mr. Živković's allegations. It is clear to me that a practice has been introduced here long ago that individual decisions within BiH are interpreted differently and that is no longer unknown to anyone in this country. But I want to make it very clear that we are no longer in this Parliament or in this country, it is now truly a luxury to play with the European Parliament's views. The European Parliament has made findings – the intimidation of the media! The European Parliament reminds us in its official resolution that the independence of the media has been compromised and that I do not repeat everything that I just said to the European Parliament. And that, people, is no longer a shame just here in this parliament, it is also a pity of the Federation of BiH and the RS entities, it is a pity both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak and those who are being subjected today to the others. I think that, first of all, this is a blow to BiH's European path and this is the demining of BiH's European path and that, again, is what the European Parliament said. I don't think it can go on like this. We're tearing down BHRT! In the last session, we're discussing the Central Bank, not saying all the other things. For months, since the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we have ridiculous agendas for the country that signed the Stabilisation and Association Agreement! There are no 103 aspects of meeting the conditions that PIC said - five plus two and just what we're talking about. This isn't how it goes. And I have to say that the only thing that encourages: it is a new attitude between the United States and the EU towards BiH, which must obviously be involved in some things in this country, because this country has fallen into a difficult blockade and I congratulate those who have managed to awaken both the United States and the EU.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21707	Thank you. The next is Honourable Ajanović, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21708	Well, I don't like a lot of replicas, I don't like long debates, because it leads to a waste of time, but I have colleagues and colleagues to answer together. They're very great masters of replacing thesis, very big. In fact, you've replaced the thesis, my dear fellow Prodanović. I appreciate you very much, but in my speech, I said I'm asking you to work as a legal state, that we stand for it. And the court is the largest legal institution, from that municipal to this, if we want to build a legal state. Therefore, these are all replacements of thesis. And my dear colleague Živković. I don't know how you calculated that television isn't Srbin television, or RS television, when there's a report from Banja Luka on TV every night, and I know that Banja Luka is in RS. Therefore, I don't understand what it means to be just a television station in Sarajevo, and it reports from all parts of BiH. The truth is that it cannot fully cover the area, because a month ago it opened up there around Livna, it was, in fact, better said, fixed around the Livna transporter that has, which was destroyed during the war, which is now being repaired. So, it's Bosnian Herzegovina television, and do I, do I like that TV program, sometimes I don't like it, to tell you honestly, but also other TVs, and watch all the TVs that exist, be private, be public. In BiH, on this basis, we draw certain political conclusions and certain movements in certain places. So, please, when I speak in the future, I would ask that you listen well and do not replace the thesis. Thank you very much. Let me finish. When there's a financial report on the RTD business this year, then, if Bog does, we'll discuss the Management Board openly.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-05-0.u21709	Who's registered for the replica? Niko. I thank you for your replicas. At this point, according to an earlier announcement, with a delay of 10 minutes, we will conclude today's work, and this point remains to be considered when continuing. There's still a lot of people in charge of the hearing. The College's proposal, since it's a 24-hour interruption, that we continue this session to be 19. The 11th of this year, starting at 10.00 hours, is that after this session is over we will continue the regular one, planned for then. Wait a minute, wait a minute, you have to make a statement. 104 Please prepare to make a statement on this proposal. Vote now! 24 votes "yes", five "against", without "abstained" votes, a sufficient entity majority, I find that the College's proposal has been accepted. Thank you. The seat was interrupted at 6:13 p.m.
