ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-0.u2291	Gentlemen, dear colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers, the international community, I warmly welcome you all and open the lecture of the 17th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There are 11 delegates present at the session, four from the Bosniak people, four from the Croatian people and three from the Serb people. Mrsa Hazim Rančić, Slobodan Šaraba, Zoran Koprivica and Božo Rajić are justly absent because they are on a certain official trip by order of the House. In order to continue the 17th session, I propose a agenda starting from the 10th point to the next. I don't want to read these 16 points to you now. You all have it in front of you, the College agreed, and if you agree to continue the work immediately, that is, to move to the first point, that is, the 10th point, as it was at the last session. Ad.10. Report on BiH's Attorney General's work for the period from 1.1.2007 to 31.12. 2007 You've reached the opinion of the committee in charge. The House of Representatives didn't adopt the report. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-0.u2293	So the 2007 Law Department report, which was not adopted at the House of Representatives session, I don't think it was the 25th session, was adopted mainly thanks to the votes of Bosniak MPs. I followed that report and tried to answer what they were, to actually come up with arguments that did not make this report go away, or whether BiH's Attorney General had completed the tasks in accordance with his responsibilities. The report shows that BiH's current defence attorney, along with the defence attorneys' assistants, worked very sacrificedly and this can be seen from the following data: the total number of cases in work for 2007, was 2.966; in the reporting period 1,666 cases were resolved, 1,300 were left unsolved, which was transferred in the current year. 2 As the report points out, the Ombudsman has taken all legal acts prescribed by the legal regulations in these cases and, as it appears, there are many pending litigation cases for which entity courts and the BiH Court of Justice are before which these cases are handled. In particular, it should be noted that during the reporting period, BiH's defence attorney and five assistants worked with the cases, as two assistants spent more time on sick leave. Therefore, the work of the pravobranilaštvo, as shown in the report, is not a reason for the negative stance of Bosniak MPs in the House of Representatives. The biggest sin not only of the report but of the Advocate General is that the Ombudsman is unfulfilled with lawyers from the other two nations, meaning from the order of the Bosniak and Croatian people, which is the task of the Council of Ministers, and not of the current defence attorney. Under BiH's Law on the Defence of BiH, the defence office in accordance with the BiH Constitution and under BiH law, the defence attorney, two deputy attorneys and several assistant attorneys. By a decision of the State Service Agency since 25.4.2006, the two deputy defence attorneys, meaning from the Bosniak and Croatian nations, have been appointed as the agent and deputy agent of the BiH Council of Ministers before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Since then, the public defender's office has been held by the Serbian people's defenders and defence attorneys. In 2007, a competition and procedure for the election of defence attorneys was completed and lawyers from the second two nations were to be elected so far. They should have, but they weren't chosen. And that's why it's not the responsibility of any current attorney, but the Council of Ministers is the right address. So the lawyer and his assistant took a huge burden to compensate for the lack of these two lawyers from the other two nations and therefore should be punished, at least according to what it looked like at the House of Representatives. Is this punishment just because it comes from the Serb people? In line with the above, I propose to support the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission to the House of Peoples on the report on the work of the Advocate General for 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-0.u2294	Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? First, I think it came in, then Alma. Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-0.u2295	Mr. President, first of all, I am pleased that you are between us and today. I welcome you personally and all the members at the table of the chairman, colleagues, colleagues and everyone else in this building. 3 I won’t hold much of you. I just wanted to warn you about a fact that, unfortunately, has been repeating itself for years. These are our discussions about the report we're getting. We simply must conclude that we simply do not have built criteria that determine what it is, a report that can be accepted in Parliament or cannot be accepted in Parliament. We need to clear up what we expect from the report. I think the report is nothing but an annual stenogram of the work of an institution. In our opinion, the report can be negative for the institution, too, can be positive for the institution. Depends on what the institution did. It is primary that the report is indeed a stenogram of the institution's annual work and that we can conclude from the report whether the institution has worked well or the institution has not worked well. So, the reports simply cannot and must not be related to the success or failure of the institution's work, but must be tied to its consistency, is the report really a document that depicts the work of an institution in the right way. If it has depicted the work of an institution, and if that image is absolutely negative, we are obliged to accept this report as a good report, and then to warn, commit or otherwise act on an institution or to correct errors or even go to those unpopular measures, or sanctions. That's all I wanted to warn us about. It seems to me that we still don't know in parliaments, or homes what it is, what it needs to be and what it has to be a report. We need to learn once for the future period what we expect from the report. What form it is and what form it must be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-0.u2296	Thank you very much. Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-0.u2297	So here, Chairman, I can't help but say, I don't know why the House of Representatives rejected the Attorney General's report? But I want to say, as someone who understands the work of the courts, BiH's Attorney General is just an authority representing the BiH state before the courts. It is not responsible for cases which are dealt with in court. BiH will get some dispute or not if the D.A.'s doing a good job, because it's a state's attorney. But believe me, out of 3,000 items, last year, 1,666 were solved. They remained in the process of resolving the courts in charge. And I don't know, really, which was run by the House of Representatives and I just want to say today that I will support this report. I was very uncomfortable at the last session. We discussed the report on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. And then Dom said that this report does not take into account, because it was like a suggestion to take that report to the knowledge. And then the prosecutor, who represented the prosecution, asked what it meant that Parliament did not receive the report you received, which you read, which you analyzed and which you made comments on. I think today we should accept this report. People did their job, the capacity with which they have it is like that, five people and this lawyer, actually Mrs. Attorney General sitting there, and they couldn't do any more. They represented BiH both before regular courts and before the BiH Constitutional Court and I think they did their job well. We can conclude in our conclusion, as Mr Branko Zrno said, that we are not satisfied with what has been achieved, that the defence should have done more or that we should have received more judgment in favour of the BiH state. But believe me, they're not the ones who make the verdicts. You know that, they represent us in the way they know best and can and I think they've done their job well and correctly.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-0.u2298	Okay. Anyone else answer for a word? Then I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point and we're joining the vote on the report. Who Is For? You can vote! It's a final vote. Let's see the results. A unanimously accepted report on BiH's defence work. We're going to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-0.u2299	Has anyone suggested anything?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-0.u2300	They didn't suggest any conclusions, so we accept this report so let's do it that way. Here is the Commission's proposal for no conclusions, so we're going to the second point, or the 11th point of the agenda, that's Ad.11. Report on the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Work of the Committee on Data Protection for 2007 You've reached the opinion of the committee in charge. The House of Representatives adopted the report. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Since no one's answering for a word, I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the report. Who Is For? We just have to wait for Mladen, something's out.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-0.u2302	We don't have a quorum. We're waiting for the Mladen. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-0.u2303	I'd like to just wait a minute, and here's Mr. Ivanić. He had to come out of something. Let's vote again, please, one more time, here. We can vote! Here's what I'm realizing is that this report was adopted unanimously. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda: Ad.12. Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals in 2007 You've reached the opinion of the committee in charge. The House of Representatives adopted the report. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-0.u2305	Just one sentence. So, after a lot of time and analysis of this institution and after its 18-page report, after dealing with it on several occasions, you have seen what the Commission report is like, but I am particularly underlining this conclusion, which says the Council of Ministers is in charge of taking the necessary steps in the framework of its legal competence to remove the problems in the organisation of work and to fill in the Office for the consideration of complaints with two other members, and to inform this home of the measures taken. Without the realization of this conclusion, this institution will remain weak and will not be able to work at the pace expected of it. So, I ask that such a report be adopted and we, as the Finance and Budget Committee, follow what the Council of Ministers will do at this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-0.u2306	Okay, thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're approaching the vote. Who is “for” this report with this conclusion that the Committee has already proposed? I understand that the report with the conclusion was unanimously adopted. Okay, I'm the report suggested along with the conclusion... Committees, one conclusion. We now move to the 13th item of the agenda: 6 Ad.13. Work report and Financial Report of the BiH Post Office for the period from 1.1.2007 to 31.12.2007 You've reached the opinion of the committee in charge. The House of Representatives adopted the report. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're approaching the vote. You can vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-0.u2308	Excuse me, please, just intervention one. We have two reports. The Finance and Budget Commission discussed the Financial Report of the Post Office, and the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of our home discussed the Work Report. So I'm asking you to vote both, and they delivered it together, both of them, so I'm asking you to vote on both reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-0.u2309	Individually, is it, or together?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-0.u2310	I pray separately because the two commissions are in charge of two commissions, and they will be delivering two separate reports in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-0.u2311	So we're voting on the Work Report, and then the Financial Report, that's what you wanted to say. Okay. Let's vote first on the report on work, here. I find that the report on the work has been adopted unanimously. Now we approach again here the vote on the Financial Report. You can vote! I also find that the Financial Report has been adopted unanimously. We're going to the 14th item of the agenda, 7 Ad.14. Report on the work of the Management Board of the Export Credit Agency You've reached the committee's report. The House of Representatives adopted the report. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? If no one answers their word, I'm closing the argument. We're approaching the vote on the report. You can vote! I understand that the report was unanimously adopted. We are now voting on the conclusions proposed by the committee in charge. You can vote! I also find that the conclusions have been adopted, unanimously. We move to the 15th point of the agenda of the 17th session of Ad.15. Annual report by the Central Bank of BiH for 2007
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-0.u2314	So, you saw, the report was therefore adopted by the Finance and Budget Commission, but it is still important that these three conclusions were delivered there. The first conclusion is: - that the Council of Ministers is in charge of making a strategy and defining business policy and measures with concrete solutions to enable monetary stability, a stable investment environment, mitigate negative threatening inflation rates of more than 5% and allow for increased domestic and foreign investment, increase domestic production, and especially export-oriented. That's the first one. The second says: - that a competent committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of, together with the Council of Ministers of BiH and the competent ministries on the issues of inflation deficits, drawing up a proposal for measures of plans, programmes and legal solutions to curb the inflation deficits 8 as well as a proposal for a road to surpluses so that the next reports of the Central Bank of BiH are positive and that all citizens feel better on the ground. Third: - The BiH Council of Ministers undertakes to develop an analysis of BiH's business environment within 90 days and to prepare a comprehensive programme of measures and activities through the most extensive consultations that will allow BiH to be a preferred place for investment for both foreign and domestic investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-0.u2315	Okay. Thank you very much. You all have these conclusions that Mrs. Majkić read. Anyone else answer for a word? He's not answering. I'm closing the debate. We're approaching the vote. You can vote! First we vote on the report and later we vote on the conclusions. That's how it's supposed to be done here, or we can do it together. But here, well, here's what I said. Here, I understand that the report was adopted unanimously. We are now voting on the conclusions proposed by the committee in charge. You can vote! I also find that the conclusions were adopted unanimously. And now we move to the 16th item of the 17th session: Ad.17. Financial Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2007 You've received a financial report from the Central Bank as well as a report from the committee responsible. The House of Representatives adopted the report. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? If no one answers their word, I'm closing the argument. We're approaching the vote. You can vote! I find the Financial Report of the Central Bank of BiH adopted unanimously for 2007. 9 We move to the 17th point of the agenda: Ad.17. Consideration of the Programme of Measures for the application of the CEFTA Agreement
