ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2915	Please, if we could put the cards in the seats, we'd start working. Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and colleagues, present representatives, ministers and others present from the Council of Ministers, the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 22nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Today's session is attended by 13 MPs, five from the Bosniak people, five from the Croatian people and three from the Serb people. Mrs. Dušanka Majkić and Mr. Mladen Ivanić justified their absence, as they were prevented from attending the House session today. For the 22nd session, I propose the next amended agenda 1. Answers to envoys' questions and envoys' questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 21st session of the House of Nations; 3. Request of the Joint Committee for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minority Members by an hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 4. Request of the Joint Committee for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics to consider Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision establishing the BiH Council of Model Minorities by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 6. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer Constitutional Commission; 7. Proposal for a law on witness protection programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 2 8. Proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 9. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Production of Arms and Military Equipment (First Reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 11. Proposal for a Law on the List of Populations and Households in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011 (first reading) – Proposer Envoy Slobodan Šaraba, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, and on the consideration of the constitutional basis and the principles of that law; 12. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, BiH police and state officials in peace support operations for the period from 1. Nine. 2007-29. 2. 2008; 13. Proposal for a conclusion of the 10th plenary session of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, held on 30th Seven. 2008 with regard to the fulfilment of the obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement; Information on crimes against life and bodies, with an emphasis on domestic violence, for 2006 and 2007 and trends in the first three months of 2008; 15. Consideration of the possibility of continuing the procedure for the appointment of the Ombudsman for human rights of BiH and the deputy chief auditor of the Bosniak people; 16. Giving consent to ratifying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and Bosnia and Herzegovina; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Denmark on the Facilitation of Visas; 18. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Norway on the Facilitation of Visas; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is represented by the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Commonwealth of Australia, which is represented by the Ministry of Health, concerning certain rights of use of the AR – DRG system classification; 20. Approving the ratification of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities with regard to the cross-border programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia for 2007 on the basis of pre-accession assistance instruments – Component II. Cross-border cooperation; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities on the cross-border programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia for 2007 on the basis of pre-accession assistance instruments – Component II. Cross-border cooperation; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities in respect of the 2007 national programme as part of the pre-accession assistance instruments – the Transition and Construction Assistance Component; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on the supply of acts abroad in civil and commercial matters – The Hague, November 15, 1965; 24. Giving consent to ratifying the Convention on the supply of evidence abroad in civil and commercial matters – The Hague, 18 March 1970; 3 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements No 1 with the loan agreement of 1 August 2006 between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development – Air Traffic Management Project; 26. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan, Financing and Project Agreement between KfW Frankfurt in Majna and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Elektroprivreda of the Croatian Community Herceg-Bosnia (EP HZHB) – Reconstruction of the Rama Hydropower Plant; 27. Giving consent to ratifying the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework for the Initiative for Prevention and preparedness for catastrophes in Southeast Europe; 28. Granting consent to ratify the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Hungary on social security and social security; 29. Granting consent to ratify the Administrative Agreement implementing the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Hungary on social security and social security; 30. Giving consent to ratifying the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety with the United Nations Convention on Biological Variety. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. I'm asking if anyone needs a word. I'm guessing no one wants a word. Therefore, in accordance with Article 60 of the Treaty on the Functioning of Rules of Procedure, this is a fixed agenda. We're going to the first item of the agenda, that's Ad. 1. Answers to Envoys' Questions and Envoys' Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2918	I refer the issue to the Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers. - What did the Presidency, or the Council of Ministers, do to further improve bilateral relations with our neighbours, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia? In this context, we are particularly interested: how long has it been since the procedures for signing the Borders Agreement and what is it about harmonising views? Then what about the property-legal agreement? We all know the value of this agreement and the problems that we have in both country and country, especially when it comes to this agreement with the Republic of Croatia, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has accepted, and our Council of Ministers has not yet accepted. Then why has bilateral relations with the Republic of Serbia been held at the level of job seekers for almost two years? It's about neighbouring countries we have, so to speak, strategic interest in developing and promoting relations. A team before we have a different situation in Serbia, which, apart from President Tadić, we also have a new government that I believe is committed to resolving these issues between our countries. There are also a number of other agreements of minor or greater importance that are not concluded, which are under way, so I would ask the Presidency or the Council of Ministers to answer these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2919	Thank you very much, Mr. Tihić. Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2920	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I have asked a really large number of questions in this previous time, and I have received an answer to a few of these questions so far. So I think that we delegates who ask questions should be informed within a reasonable period of time whether we can get an answer and when we do not get an answer, and when information is given that it cannot be obtained, I personally think it is normal. And this way, wait a year and a half for answers to certain questions, which I find extremely significant, I don't think makes any sense and there's no excuse. And there is a really basic question: Does it make sense to ask delegate questions that we will probably never get an answer to? That is why I will repeat the question I asked last year, in May, which I find extremely important, given that it concerns a large number of people in BiH who have been disproved by the decisions of the High Representative and who are in a very difficult situation in life without basic human and civil rights. So I ask my delegate question to be forwarded to the Joint Commission on Human Rights. I believe and expect that this committee of parliament is finally starting to deal with this issue, because these people in this situation I am convinced they deserve it. - When will decisions declared by the High Representative in BiH that have been taken or restricted by people of basic human and civil rights be abolished, given that from the moment of the first such decisions and their adoption have passed a longer period of time, for more than 10 years, and against the removed people in the meantime they have not initiated any proceedings, nor have you brought sanctions? The explanation is this: The Office of the High Representative has so far made over 150 decisions that have been removed from the people and are deprived of fundamental human and civil rights: the right to a fair trial, the right to be considered innocent until the trial finds them guilty of acts which are in law provided for as criminal acts and sanctions laid down in the law as criminal sanctions, the right to an effective legal remedy, the right not to be subject to 5 discrimination, political rights (right to political organisation, passive voting law), economic rights (right to labour, the right to equal access to public services and employment), social rights (the right to social assistance during the unemployment in which they are located), the right to health insurance, the right to pension insurance, and the loss of civic honor, the loss of university titles and official titles of certain ones, and, of course, more than, the right to use of any kind of medicines against such decisions. They were also deprived of the right to compensation for material and immaterial damage, which was done to them by such actions. Their guilt has not yet been proven or publicly justified in the way the law requires it. The political arguments we hear are not enough. These people in BiH deserve far more attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2921	Thank you very much, Mr. Šarab. Professor Neimarlija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2922	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow delegates, guests from the Council of Ministers, other institutions, from the media, my question is somewhat unusual, as I direct it to the Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. So one decision of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly recently was declared a crime in a political show by one of the public broadcasters. In the languages of the constituent peoples of BiH, the word 'crime' marks the most serious crime for which perpetrators are subject to judicial action and proper punishment. From the Joint College of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I ask the answer to the question: - What has he done and what will he do against this most difficult public qualification of the regulatory decision of the highest legislative body in our country? When I ask for this, I have in mind the obligation of the Joint College to worry about the protection of norms and procedures of the legislative work of the Parliamentary Assembly and the obligation of the Parliamentary Assembly to protect the basic principles of parliamentary political pluralism on which BiH's political system rests as a rule of law. Such arbitrary and brutal attempts to disqualify parliamentary laws, which are likely to help a party's political option more directly at the expense of other party political options in the Parliamentary Assembly, devising the foundations of parliamentary democracy and the legal work of state institutions, so political life in BiH collapses below the level at which it was at the time of the one-party political system, although it was not a permanent political life, since real political life is not where one party has power. At that time, disagreements with the ruling policy did not publicly declare the crime, but his representatives were advertised by reactionaries, MPs... ideologies and enemies of the right policy. In addition, arbitrary media characterisation of legal acts as a crime, especially by public broadcasters, today contributes objectively to the relativisation of crimes committed in BiH and many of which have not yet been processed. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2923	Thank you very much. Perhaps it would be more precise, it would be good to specify exactly what law is in your question which you will describe and deliver to the College. Dear counterpart Ibrahimpašić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2924	I asked the Council of Ministers about a year ago: 'Why the Excise Act doesn't change', so I counted several of these elements in the law. I got the answer maybe a few months ago, so somewhere at the end of the summer, and one of those answers really intrigued me. So, I asked: 'Why does the Act of Excise on Tobacco and Tobacco Processing not change and agree with the same law in the Republic of Croatia?' It is my responsibility that there is no political will for it. Let me remind you. It is this: when our cigarettes go to Croatia, they are calculated several times by excise, rather than by Croatian cigarettes. Conversely, when cigarettes from Croatia import into our country, they are counted on by the same excise duty as our cigarettes. I'm asking today: who doesn't have the political will to change this and what does that really mean? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2925	Thank you very much. Does anyone else have a report? Anyone else want to ask a question? I'm closing this agenda. We're done with point one. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 21st session. You got a record with a call. Anybody want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the minutes on the 21st session. You can vote now. I agree that we unanimously accepted the minutes of the 21st session. Moving to point three: 7 Ad. 3. Request of the Joint Committee for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minority Members by an hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2930	I can say that on the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications, this law is under consideration at the second stage of the Commission. There was no amendment to the text of the bill. The essence of the law is to release civil protection equipment and fire brigades from customs, so that there were no objections on the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2931	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the bill. The House of Representatives adopted him in the same text. I'm opening a vote. Access the plea. Final vote. I agree, with one vote abstention, that we have received this law. We're going to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sport of BiH, (first reading) – Proposer: Constitutional Commission of our House So today we're having a debate on the principles... on which this law is founded. You have received the bill of law and the opinion of the relevant Constitutional Commission. I ask the chairman of this committee, Mr. Jović, to take his word. 9 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2933	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome you and Mr. Co-chair, distinguished colleagues, guests of our session today, as well. On several occasions, we discussed and discussed the subject of amending and supplementing the Law on Sports of BiH. For the sake of reminders, I am also obliged as a rapporteur to point out the sequence of events surrounding this law and its amendments and additions. For four years in the debate, sometimes with less, sometimes with more success, at the end of the four years, the Sport Act was passed. It was time, I'll remind you, before our athletes left and at the Olympics. As we all felt the importance of passing this law at that time and for our athletes to be at the Olympic Games, we were thinking that what needs to be changed and changed in this bill, at that time, we tried to narrow down to technical changes. So there's been a major failure in the law, and I'm going to say that the law was passed by breaking the Constitution. How? It is known that the Federation entity has its own Constitution. And in that constitution, exclusive competences are shared in one part, one area between the county and the Federation. They have issues in the Federation's exclusive jurisdiction and questions in the exclusive jurisdiction of the county. One of the areas is sport, which is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the county. At the Federation level, there is a ministry that has a co-ordinated role without the right to pass laws and has not done so today. Similarly, we have explained and conducted long discussions when it comes to the Law on Higher Education, the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education, or rather to some other laws relating to the fields of science, culture, sports and education. I need to visit at this point and those who don't know. I will tell you that professional people and in this area who should know this do not know, and they did not read, that in the Constitution of the Federation writes that those counties that are the majority of one nation with a population, and there are within that county in municipalities where another people, then sport, culture, are significant at the level of the municipality, not even the level of the county, and not the entity. However, we have received such a bill. On the Constitutional Commission, explaining in the same way to its colleagues, the members of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Nations, then we agreed that in the law where powers are given no one by asking the entity of the Federation, and that those who have exclusive jurisdiction are called lower administrative organisations, not explicit of what they belong to, name and surname, because they should be reminded at the level of the County have both the Ministry and the Government and the Constitution. Then we found what I just said, the key. In order not to disrupt the adoption of the law, we went with one conclusion, in which we stated that in those articles of the proposal for a law on sport, which mentions entities, in plural, and lower levels of administrative organisation, the entity of RS, County, Brcko District, cities and municipalities states. So, in those areas where constitutional powers are exempt from the counties, powers are transferred to the level of BiH, not to be transferred to the Federation. With that conclusion, we went out here before the House. By adopting the Proposal for a Law on Sports, I expected this conclusion of the Constitutional Commission to be adopted. However, that was not the case in the record of this home. Respecting that we have brought to the Constitutional Commission, dear colleagues, whom I thank, realizing what the problem and word is, we have agreed to go along with the amendments and additions of this law in a way to bring it into line with the Federation Constitution and the county constitutions. 10 And so there is now this proposal before you. However, we have had these problems for a long time and we have asked the Council of Ministers to give their opinion and we have received an answer from the Ministry of Civil Affairs which is not an answer, because it is not at all a question at all. This opinion we've received has nothing to do with what we're talking about. It's about the Constitution of BiH. Of course, there is no canton in the BiH Constitution. But this BiH has two entities, they have constitutions and counties. It wasn't hard to look at what it says in those constitutions. And I, I must say here publicly, with a man who runs legal affairs, when I said he was in the power of that county, the man said, 'What is wrong with you, neither has a constitution, nor has a ministry at the county level! Where did you get that?' And then no wonder we got this answer, in which, with the last sentence, it is now a solution. It's given the whole text negatively, so that in the end, what we're looking for is that it's consensual for the Ministry to change the way we're looking for it. And I can't figure out why he's breaking a law like that, which we wanted, and thank Bog we have him. And all we want is for it to change and comply with constitutional powers belonging to the counties, the Federation and BiH. It's pointless to get up on constitutional charges when there's no need for that. So there's no need to stand up for anything to prove that it's in power when it's written in the Constitution. That is why our committee has been given a positive opinion on the amendment and addition of the Sport Act. I call on this home to understand what this is about and to agree the Law on Sport with the Constitutions in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2934	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović, President of the Committee. So, I'm still undermining that the Committee has accepted the principles of the proposed law and the draft text delivered to us for first reading. The commission accepted unanimously on the Constitutional Commission. So it wasn't. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Then Mr. Tihić predicted it, and I got information from him that it was, but one was restrained. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Rančić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2936	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I fully support that in the procedure of passing laws or any other act we take into account the compliance of the regulation with the constitutions and the legal order in BiH. This is our obligation and, of course, that we must follow it, certainly bearing in mind that when we say 'compliance with the Constitution and with the legal provisions' we must certainly take care of 11 of Article II of Article 2. The BiH Constitution that speaks of international standards and their direct and priority application when it comes to human rights and freedoms, prescribed by the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. So, these things as a rule, as a principle, are undeniable to me. I'm familiar with this procedure, considering... about the law being passed and our conclusion that we're going to fix this law? However, when it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports of BiH, it seems to me that it was not going in this direction rather than bringing the jurisdiction of the state, entity, canton, municipalities and cities, it did not go in the direction we agreed on. There have been widespread changes, related to the principles of this law. In particular, the Council of Ministers' opinion, i.e. a resolution ministry which disagrees with these amendments and additions, claimed that other levels of government, referring to cantons, municipalities and cities, were covered and contained in the existing law. With all this in mind, we will support this law and the principles of this law and the first reading, but we will also pray to the Commissioner and the Council of Ministers and the Resent Ministry for these disagreements once again in the follow-up procedure to agree, so possibly, if there is a need for amendment action on that law to do so in the prescribed procedure and then finally, whether or not, we pass the law. So please take care of these opposing attitudes and resolve it in this second phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2937	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Mr. Rajić answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2938	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd just like to refer as soon as possible. So I feel that there is a will to make that conclusion that has been missed in the minutes, or in the publication of the text, before it is published, that it will try to resolve it. If Mr. Jović's proposal goes out, it goes beyond that, as Mr. Rančić says, I think we can talk about it. However, I would like to express my disagreement, in fact, with my protest according to the way the Ministry of Civil Affairs communicates on request. He cannot say, Minister of the Council of Ministers, any, cannot tell the parliamentarian or this home to say that it is understood, that this, a qualification of lower organisational levels, administrative levels in BiH, means what he has clearly defined in the Constitution, has its name, its competences. So it's unacceptable for me, absolutely, the way the Ministry of Security communicates on this matter. It was correct to say, to refer to the provisions, what Mr. Rančić was saying, so there are standards of the BiH Constitution that are binding, there are conventions international that are incorporated into this Constitution, we must respect it, but there are constitutions that correspond to the administrative and territorial structure of BiH from top to bottom. And it would be correct that the Ministry of Civil Affairs, which can be problemed again, by my deep conviction, is not competent to adopt such regulations, but is not at this moment that question, at least in a correct way, to interpret the 12 Constitution and to say, that gentlemen, the Constitution defines so and if someone insists that it is explicitly stated so, it would be okay to respect that will. And not in this way, blatantly trying to tell us that we don't understand what they don't really understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2939	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Anybody else want a word? Mrs Alma Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2940	Well, I'd like to look back on Mr. Ivo Mire Jović's discussion. He said... according to the Federation Constitution that sport was in the jurisdiction of the canton. True, in the Constitution of the Federation there is a provision that everything that is not in the express jurisdiction of the Federation is within the jurisdiction of the canton. The sport is not mentioned as an explicit jurisdiction of the Federation and it says that sport is then, by analogy, in the jurisdiction of the canton. However, he says that with this opinion adopted by the Council of Ministers, they are satisfied, because it is said that only where other levels of administrative organisation stand in law that these words can be replaced with the words cantons, cities and municipalities. So that's it. But I think this law went a lot wider. Here, I'll just, today we are, of course, pleading on principles and that is not disputed, we will support principles; however, I want to say that for example. Article 21 states that international sports competitions and sports events can be organised in BiH if the organiser gets the consent of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, the competent authority of the RS, canton and Brcko District, and ensures the conditions for the envisaged international sports organisations. I would like the representatives of the restoring ministry, who worked on this law, to say whether it is actually just a linguistic alignment of what is written by 'other levels of administrative organisation', translated into the city, canton and municipalities or something wider. Here's Minister Sredoje Nović. I think this is something bigger. This is, therefore, for some international activities of BiH, we must have the canton's consent in the field of sport. And it seems to me that's wider than what the Council of Ministers has accepted. It is the opinion of the resolution ministry, which was accidentally signed by Deputy Minister Senad Šepić, but it is an opinion that the Council of Ministers accepted as relevant and delivered it to the BiH Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2941	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo. Everyone can get to the conclusion of the debate. Here you go, Mr. Jović. 13 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2942	: It's just the point of being a respected colleague and saying. Countys did not participate, no one asked them, and at the county level we have the government and the minister of sports and its competencies transferred to BiH. And we supported it, but we can't support it being transferred to the Federation when there's no constitutional authority. I don't know, I think we understand each other enough. Well, even here, if we say the competent body, then it's the Ministry of County, which is why, and I believe here, I can say, if the powers are transferred and it's at BiH level, please, it's nice, but it can't be at Federation level, so the competent body is at canton level.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2943	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? Mr. Zno. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2944	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to do anything, I'm just going to show one deep dissatisfaction with the way we do the most elementary things in the laws that we ourselves bring without any need and we're simply leaving out what's defined, arranged, established and constitutional and, that is, in a constitutional way, spoken by the Constitution. Why are we now in a position to explain what is explained? We can negotiate, we can transfer powers, we can give them to someone else in that ranking list: state, entity, county, cities, municipalities, and that's undeniable. However, it is controversial that we are in a position to bring ourselves into a dilemma with a simple, constitutionally defined and predetermined matter and bring ourselves into a debate that is absolutely, even if it is unnecessary here. What's proposed is actually elemental, I'd say, not elemental but technical changes and additions to what we already have. What we have, these additions, in substance, change neither derrogate nor do anything, only technical complements, or constitutional confirmation, means, for the second time, they confirm the constitutionality of what we will get by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2945	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. Anybody else want a word? Is there a need for honourable Minister Nović, given the doubts expressed, to say something? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2946	Dear Mr. Chairman, respected delegates, since this is the first reading, given that today it is the principles of the law, I really don't think it is necessary to elaborate today and, if there is enough desire, I think any problem can be solved in one 14 civilized way and in a normal way. I must admit that I never came to the conclusion, nor was your conclusion sent to me, so I don't know what you've concluded here at last about that law, and in the end the law was in the debate here and we could have challenged it or not challenged it, accepted it or not accepted it, with amendments and no amendments. However, it is no problem for us to sit down and that the amendments proposed by the distinguished delegate Mr Jović, which may be suggested by all other delegates, to sit down, this ministry is always ready for a constructive conversation and that, within the framework of both the Constitution and the laws and other regulations, we come up with the most qualitative solutions. I don't think it's good and we don't need to open up some big questions based on this or that attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2947	Thank you very much, Minister Nović. I am concluding the debate and I am asking the resolution ministry, I believe it will be, that it will follow the amendment phase in Parliament, especially... when it is in the commission phase so that we can have prepared and removed all doubts until the debate in the second reading at our home. I am closing the debate and I am opening a vote on the bill's proposal in the first reading. The vote is open. Here you go. The vote is closed. I agree that we accepted the draft law unanimously in the first reading. Moving to 7th point, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Witness Protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers And we're also having a discussion about principles. You have received the bill's proposal, you have received the opinion of the relevant committee and at the same time information that the House of Representatives adopted this law in the first reading. I'm opening an argument and I'm asking who's answering the word? Mr. Koprivica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2949	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, present, I also held a session of the Constitutional Commission when we discussed this law, the proposed law on the witness protection programme in BiH, expressed a special and separate position on the one which the Commission voted most of the time at that session and, in that sense, I want to repeat that position now. 15 In fact, the proposal for this law is essentially needed to be fully amended. First of all, Article 1 in this law requires that this law applies to witnesses who testify before the Court of Justice of BiH, not to the courts in BiH, because the RS has passed and implemented the Law on the Protection of Witnesses in Criminal Procedure, and that law is published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" 48/03 and provides for the protection of witnesses in criminal proceedings conducted by courts or prosecutors in the RS for crimes which are in the jurisdiction of the RS courts. Otherwise, the adoption of such a law would lead to the transfer of competence from RS institutions to BiH institutions. In this connection, it is also necessary to amend Article 3 and specify that this protection programme applies when one of the crimes in the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of BiH is proven. In Article 8, it should also consider cutting deadlines for calling a meeting of the Commission to participate in the Witness Protection Programme, as well as its decision on a request for application of the Protection Programme, given that it is cases of facing witnesses with threats to life, health, freedom, physical integrity and property that require urgent treatment. Of course, one such law of BiH is necessary but I suggest that this law be returned to the Council of Ministers, with such provisions, with such a text as this, is generally unacceptable for us, and therefore I suggest that this law should be restored to the Council of Ministers to bear in mind these remarks that I have spoken of and that, in the further procedure, we should not be in a position not to simply fall into the position of coming to the new proposal that we have, which we would soon get in the process and adopt the law that BiH needs, which is in line with the legal system of this country. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2950	Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivica. So I understood this discussion as a discussion of the details of the articles. That's what we're going to do in the amendment phase, and today we're talking about principles here. Here, among other provisions in the transitional and final provisions, if we have carefully read the proposal of this law, if it passes in the parliamentary procedure this text of the law, some earlier laws that regulate this same matter will cease to apply. So, I'd like us to focus now on discussing principles, not on details. The word was answered by Mr. Jović or Vidović, and here is Branko Zrno. Make a deal... I get the impression that you suddenly raised your hand. Mr. Zrno, let's say we give the president a head start.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2951	Okay, thanks. I mean, now, after what my colleague Koprivica said, I was just going to find out that we have the Witness Protection Act. So I read because this is about the proposal for a law on witness protection, although this is essentially a 'witness protection law', and when 16 are passed, then a programme is being implemented as a legal decree. So, that's about it. Secondly, I would ask my colleague, Koprivica, not to go into the debate again, that is, not to prejudge things. Zoran's a lawyer and... he knows that. This is about first reading. So, we only plead on the principles of the proposal of this law, and in the second amendment phase, Zoran, I stand at the point where you too need to change, correct and coordinate everything that you have warned about and which is not in line with the act of transfer or take over power, given that this law already lives at the entity level, or at the level of the RS entity. The second I wanted: we really need this law. He should be comprehensive and really foresee every little thing. In this law, just in these final and transitional provisions, it is not explicitly stated, although it is understood that money is needed, it does not need it here. If there is already enough, it should also be said in those provisions that this money, i.e. material resources, is provided by both the agency or the agency in charge of implementing the Witness Protection Act. Secondly, I'm not saying this for nothing but because it's ugly when any law, especially this law, turns into a cartoon, when it's what it's not, and it can't be. Please remember, about one law that preceded this, only the protected witness Galijašević, who for two years as a cruel witness of the prosecution in a terrorist act and the consequences of the act of killing Minister Leotar, was more media-exposed as the main protected witness than any person in the full year in BiH. If we are to protect a protected witness in this way, if we are to enforce the Witness Protection Act, then we have done nothing. We don't have much new to say here. This law is the most normal thing in all orderly and functional states. According to this, we also accept the law and practice of the regulated countries, and thus we need this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2952	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. Mr. Jović, then Mr. Šaraba. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2953	: Eh, may I be allowed to make a note: but it did not bother Mr. General Klajn and Mr.... that a million marks should come from the bank and do so legally in their pockets, based precisely on those charges as she was punished. So I was also asking in the last term here a question: will anyone answer what a million marks the Federation has paid to such persons? But, well, it's not the subject of this debate today. However,... I think we have a legislator here and I have something that is questionable or I don't understand. I also asked that question on our commission. What's this about? We have the Witness Protection Act under threat and threatened witnesses. And I understand: it's one law. The second law is on a witness protection programme in BiH. And I understand that these are two separate laws. They were adopted at different times. I was told that today we have a new law on witness protection in BiH because it has been seen that the current law cannot meet the needs of 17 and that I am not entering the needs of those now, so we have before us a proposal for a witness protection programme, I said, since it was necessary to amend the law much, it is now a whole new law. I am interested in one thing: whether it was possible for the Witness Protection Act to be taken and one of the other witnesses to be incorporated and made one witness protection law that would include this programme. I think that would be both rational and reasonable. If, I repeat, I'm right to have these two laws that treat me, the same problem. When it's time for the content of the law, I won't be, I believe, denied to speak, I'd just say what I said at the Committee. I'm interested, I don't see anywhere here that people who are lawyers who are involved in the procedure, not a single word that a lawyer is also a person who can be a witness. Why not? And security services can be, people, representatives of these services under the given circumstances, witnesses. There's not a word about them! I mean, there are shortcomings, but it would be better if we had offered this whole problem that treats the two laws, which permeate each other, with one solution. Maybe, I say, I'm wrong or I don't understand it, but it turns out to me that it would be much, much better.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2954	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. If the proposer's authority assesses the need to say something, although this issue concerns the second stage, violates the concept, it is not a matter of principle, but concepts of the draft law and what it will contain, we will give the word after we hear Mr. Šarab and Mrs. Alma Čolo who applied for the word. Mr. Šarab, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2955	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I took part in the work of the Constitutional Legal Commission on which I voted against this law, believing that indeed in the drafting of this law, those who participated, who prepared this law, should have really done far more extensively and far more extensively than they did. If all this was done, we wouldn't be having problems here today and not talking like this. That is why I believe that, indeed, in some future work, representatives of all ministries participating in law-making must indeed carry out certain consultations and with relevant governments at entity levels in order not to come into this situation where they are now. I, Mr. Chairman, would like to request on behalf of the club a brief break of five minutes before we enter into this law, because I think it is really necessary at this point to try to remove certain misunderstandings that certainly exist, which can lead to an uninvited situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2956	Thank you very much. 18 We will conclude the debate, we will conclude the debate. When we close the debate, we'll give a five-minute break. Mrs. Čolo, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2957	Thank you, Chairman. I would look back a little on what Mr. Zoran Koprivica said they had a witness protection law in the RS. The truth is also at BiH level has a Witness Protection Act under threat and threatened witnesses, and in the Federation it is also called the Witness Protection Act under threat and threatened witnesses. But I think these are two separate laws. This law seeks from persons who testify in criminal proceedings to take their testimony in a manner that will not compromise them and who will represent a certain secret. These laws prescribe the procedure for making such a statement, for example, in the Federation that statement is given before the Supreme Court judge and comes in a sealed envelope before the court. And that is a statement that is not read in the main search but listed as evidence under a certain number. So, in my understanding, this is a completely separate law, a law relating to the ‘protection programme’, the protection of witnesses who are threatened with the right to life, who are threatened by what they have shown good will and the willingness to co-operate with the authorities of criminal prosecution and the authorities of the judiciary. And of course it is in our interest, given that we now have the Law on Witness Protection at the level of BiH, which should be put out of force by this law, because in its implementation it has shown that it is not enough and that it has not answered all the issues of protection. I think there is a certain error here with the delegates from the RS when it comes to this law, because we now have it, we need to pass a law that is better, that will enable the effective protection of witnesses, and therefore make our criminal procedures more effective. Because unless you give protection, especially in the crimes of organised crime, the crimes of terrorism and very serious crimes such as war crimes and other crimes against the constitutional order of BiH, and I do not list another unless you give adequate witness protection, of course he will not testify. This law allows us to bring the perpetrators to justice by means of protected witnesses, and that those who demonstrate their good will to testify are protected by adequate law and by all these measures that this law provides. And that's why I don't see any reason, Mr. Koprivic, to keep you out of this law, because we already have such a law at the level of BiH. It's not usurping the jurisdiction of the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2958	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo. Mr. Rudo Vidović answered for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2959	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the Council of Ministers, here I also feel the need to say a few words that go into favor, let it stand in a stenogram, that I will support this law in the principles of first reading. And I'm one of the members of the Constitutional Commission who, here, when the debate was open, was in a dilemma just about what 19 of my colleagues, Čolo, was talking about. And so, in his presentation with me personally, the authorized proposer removed the dilemmas. And especially in that part of what was actually meant to be achieved by this law, which is to ensure a more effective witness protection system in progress and after criminal proceedings. And here, in that sense, so not to go any further, I supported the Constitutional Commission and, of course, I will vote for the principles today, and possibly possible remarks, is it, in the second phase, when it is amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2960	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba, next time.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2961	Well, here's what I'd like to rephrase for a moment my esteemed colleague Alma Čolo, to say that this law is really something that is the jurisdiction of the entity. Therefore, all that is not precisely and strictly established in Article III point 1. The BiH Constitution, where entity assemblies have not made their decision and carried out the transfer of their powers to BiH level, really falls within the entity's jurisdiction. Therefore, if I were to really closely observe it, then this law would be in the exclusive jurisdiction of the entity and everything my colleague Koprivica said would be absolutely correct. So there is no specific decision by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to carry out the transfer of jurisdiction and what is written here in the position of the Government that we have received regarding this law would be absolutely correct. So we're just trying to find a solution here and figure out how to open the space for this law to live on. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2962	Thank you very much, Mr. Šarab. We lost the quorum by going out with Mr. Ljubičić. The Srbin Club is not complete, we only have two representatives of the Serbian People's Club. And I'm taking a break until the entire club composition is complete. You asked for a five-minute break. [[PAUZA]] I'd also like to ask the Honorable President of the Tihić to get us started. Words are like water, you know, flowing, flowing. Secretary, get the MPs in here and we'll get back to work. It's been a break for 20 minutes. šaraba, take your place. Hey, Rančić boy, sit down. Shall we start working? Well, five minutes can't be 20 minutes! We're continuing our work. We have a quorum here. I'm asking the Srbin klub to say why he asked for a break. Here you go, Mr. Koprivic.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2964	Thank you, Chairman. I thank you for the pause you gave us to carry out certain consultations, and in that sense I will briefly convey the position of the Serbian People's Delegates Club. I don't think there's any need to repeat what I said in the opening part of the discussion on the proposal for a witness protection programme in BiH. We are not in principle against the adoption of one of these laws, but we believe that this text of the law that we have received is simply impossible in the second phase, in the amendment phase, to comply with the constitutional tax in BiH, and that would mean needlessly coming to a stage in which we would slow down this law again. I therefore propose, on behalf of our club, that this law remain alive, that we return it to the Council of Ministers for Dorada, that we do not declare it today, and that we task the Ministry of Justice, in accordance with everything we have heard in this debate, make up a new text of the law that would be acceptable and consistent with the constitutional justice system of BiH and entities, and that we later consider and eventually adopt in a further procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2965	Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivica. I don't close the debate, I leave room for the proposing's authority to say a few words. You asked, here you go. For the record, just introduce yourself, because I didn't register your name properly. Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2966	Vejo Damir of the Ministry of Security, president of a task force that has been working on a law on witness protection. I pointed out on this committee that this is about us having two laws. So, the Witness Protection Act under threat and threatened witnesses and the Witness Protection Program Act. So there are four witness protection laws in BiH under threat and endangered witnesses. They apply means in RS, the Federation, the Brcko District and BiH. However, the Law on Witness Protection in BiH is one and a unique one. We are relying on the Law on Witness Protection, which was passed in April of 2004. So the Parliamentary Assembly has already brought it. Due to certain shortcomings provided by the law on the ground, experts have seen a series of inconsistencies and inaccessibility in the witness protection system, and have therefore joined the creation of a new law. The Council of Ministers said a new law on the BiH witness protection programme was being drafted in 2006. Why did we put 'in front of the courts in BiH'? So the witness protection program doesn't exist. We have put in transitional and final provisions that the adoption of this law ceases to apply the witness protection programme adopted in 2004... a single law applicable at the level of BiH and therefore does not cease to apply the laws that exist in the RS. It's the 21st Witness Protection Act under threat and threatened witnesses. To separate these two laws, the Witness Protection Act under the threat of endangered witnesses is a procedural part of the law that provides psychological, sociological, any kind of assistance during testimony. Then, order of evidence, and testimony through telecommunications, etc. The witness protection program concerns the post-festum, meaning works, that means when a man can come, go to court with his name and last name and give a certain statement about the works that we have listed and then enter this program. There are no two witness protection programs anywhere in the world, not even in America. And the Witness Protection Act, under the threat of endangered witnesses, exists depending on the structure, but it's one program. That's the first thing. Why did we put 'in front of BiH courts'? Because there's no other program. If they put only before the Court of BiH, it means that those witnesses and the judicial system, i.e. witnesses who are being prosecuted who are subject to the jurisdiction of other courts in BiH, would be entityally lower, denied assistance because there is no such programme in BiH. So, the exclusive right to enjoy such a protection programme would only have those witnesses... where proceedings are being conducted before the Court of Justice of BiH, i.e. witnesses who are being processed by SIPA... State Investigation and Protection Agency, BiH Prosecutor's Office. It would thus put the justice system in jeopardy, and the witness in an unexplainable situation, because he could not enjoy, this witness, in the Witness Protection Programme in BiH. We put it on. Why didn't we do witness categorization, lawyers and so on? I thank the gentleman, distinguished representative Ivo Ljubić, for asking. For reasons we cannot perform the categorization of all witnesses. The witness is a universal thing and this applies to everyone whose life is at stake, so his, his family or close persons and he can be any person in BiH. If we put the categorization that it would be a lawyer, that it would be the bearer of some other duty, maybe we could predict another function and that one couldn't get into it. So under the term 'witnesses' we put every person in need of that protection. And the third thing, in the urgency of measures, Article 8. We have established by this law a Commission that will respond to such requests in the Witness Protection Programme: Should this witness enter the Witness Protection Programme or not? Of course there are cases when it appears, this commission cannot predict that such a case appears tomorrow. For this reason, we have given jurisdiction to specialised departments at the Agency for Investigation and Protection which has already implemented this law since 2004: to adopt emergency protection measures, i.e. to receive such a witness to cover his protection until the meeting of this Commission. That would be the main point, I don't think there's a certain interference in the laws. The witness protection programme in BiH is one unique and there is no other. ... The laws on witness protection under the threat of endangered witnesses exist at the level of BiH, entity levels and... these are two different laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2967	We've heard that before, you repeat yourself, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2968	Thank you. Have a nice day. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2969	I don't know if things are a little clearer now, but I'm not closing the debate. I'm asking you, who wants a word? If no one wants a word from the MPs anymore, I'll conclude the debate and put it on, so I'll remind you one more time, we've got a positive opinion from the competent commission. We now consider this law in our first reading, we decide the principles of this law. We heard all the arguments... the opposite. And more information: The House of Representatives passed this law in the first reading. I'm opening a vote on this proposal in my first reading. We have three votes "against". So we don't have entity support from the RS. Now we're coming into a situation where we should approach the second round, there'd be consultations, then a second round of decision-making. As foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, so that the quorum is made up of two members of the College, the College makes its decision by consensus of the members present. If these efforts to reach consensus fail, the decision is made by the House. Do we have a consensus? __________? We have principles. For principles: yes. So, I ask now that we approach, if we approach the second round of decision-making, let's see, only those who are "against" of this law will be declared. We're approaching the second round of decision-making. I'm opening a decision. Those who are "against" and must be two-thirds of the members elected to the entity "against" that the law would fall in principle. Here you go. So we have three, two thirds is four. So this law is in principle accepted. Moving to 8th point, Ad. 8. Proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2976	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I really want to say the reasons that motivated me to approach this law and refer it to parliamentary procedure. Namely, my primary goal was to draft a law that would allow this important job that was planned to be done in 2011 and in BiH to prepare quality and to prepare all the preparations that should be done in the coming period, and they are indeed numerous and extensive, in the time that stands before us. That time, if we look at it by 2011, looks long, but it is really short, given the really serious and responsible jobs that need to be done, which are standing before the BiH Statistics Agency, which is established in this law as a central body to run, coordinate, monitor and ultimately do all the most important jobs concerning this census. The law also clears and precise distinctions between all the authorities that need to do this significant job, from the BiH Statistics Agency, through the competent entity bodies, to the list committees, as well as those of the lowest authorities that need to complete what is set out in this law and what is its subject matter. Indeed, dear colleagues, I believe that this law should receive support just as I think there is enough space for it to be upgraded in the amendment phase, but I also believe that this is a job, here to be open, all parliamentary parties have made it clear that 25 is a job that needs to be done, that it is a job that stands before BiH, that it is a job that we should devote ourselves to, and I really think that this is an opportunity for all of us to test together whether what we are saying really and seriously think, because I think the law has enough quality to go through this first phase and that, after that, in the amendment phase, it is a quality upgrade. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2977	Thank you very much, Mr. Šarab. So we've heard the word "proposer." I will now open the debate and believe that it will be interesting, since we have three different views of the three constituent nations on this very, very important issue. I think Mr. Rajić first asked for the word, so Mrs. Čolo. Here, I can get another one, we'll figure it out. So, after Mr. Rajić, Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2978	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers and media representatives, I think that this point and reason and reason are sometimes important to it and individually and as representatives and as members of certain political options, because in BiH, unfortunately or fortunately, side issues sometimes become important, and we turn important to the side. This is, in my deep conviction, one of the very important questions. The census is, above all, a statistical category but this statistics creates a basis for making extremely important decisions for the life of the whole society, for the whole community both on the economic and on the political and social agenda. This is a basis for planning, a basis for identifying certain processes, for encouraging them if they are positive, or for controlling them if they bring harm. However, this is, first of all, first-class under a), under b) and until the end of the alphabet, a political issue. And that's why I'm in a position of duality today. I have a principled knowledge that a census is a necessity. It takes one hundred reasons for society to know what it has, what its assumptions are, what its possibilities and limitations are and, on the other hand, I know that its implementation would produce, which directly, which is indirect, direct political consequences, and for some dangerous and major damages. Unfortunately, I belong to the least numerous and in the political sense to the worst-placed people in BiH of three constituent people in BiH, and I am obliged to say that without these political implications, I would support the bill proposed by the honourable representative of the Šaraba, but the political reasons oblige me to say and why I will not support this proposal. Often in BiH, and this becomes a habit, unfortunately, relations between the three peoples in BiH are simplified and come down to the relations of the two entities, so we have also witnessed in the media of all kinds of these recent months when it comes to these opposing views about the possible census of the population, yes or no: that the RS for the law with all the elements that the statistical census contains, hence the indication of national membership, religious, language, etc., and that the Federation is against, in fact, that 26 Hrvat and Bošnjak in the Federation have a unique position. It's my duty to say we don't have a unique attitude. Some Croatian options in BiH may think the same as Bošnjak, but I leave it to them to them to say so. On behalf of the political option that I belong to and on behalf of myself, I say that HDZ in 1990 does not share the opinion of those in the Federation who think that a list should be implemented without these three extremely important features that represent political qualifications, namely nationality, language and religion. And since it is not possible at this time to implement such a census, so neither is Mr. Šaraba proposing that he has a statement about it, nor is it acceptable for me to suggest that the other political options in the Federation are to go with a census of the population that would be an economic and statistical category, and not this content that we are talking about, I must say that for me, or for my party, is an unacceptable census of the population that is bristle and unacceptable is any list or statement that contains significant political decision-makers in BiH that would have been adopted and implemented before the constitutional reform for BiH. So, until constitutional reform is achieved, we have no reason, the Hrvat in BiH in general have no reason, I think so, and I especially think so, and I will not support any legislative project that would determine the situation after the war in ethnic, religious and any other respect before a thorough reorganisation of BiH is carried out in constitutional terms, of course in accordance with the agreement of three sovereign peoples and other citizens in BiH. For this reason, with all the respect of counterpart Šarab, I cannot vote in favour of the law but even less I can accept the concept that gives some Bosniak political options for the census to be executed without these three features.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2979	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Mrs Alma Čolo, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2980	Well, I'd like to make some arguments as to why our club believes that the census should not include these three elements that Mr. Božo Rajić spoke of. You have received this law Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration. We here today need to give consent to the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The agreement stems from the obligations for BiH to bring its legislation in line with the communal legislation. The Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration states that for EU members, the European Parliament and the Council's regulation of 9 July 2008 is a measurement for the census. The Regulation also states that the reference year for the list of EU member states is 2011. Of course, our club doesn't mind the census, and I think it's good to get to the census after 20 years. And this war and the condition in which we were in, we were prevented from carrying out the census after 10 years after the last census that was held in '91. A year. However, the Regulation obliging EU members states that these are mandatory elements to be contained in the census. We, therefore, are already coordinating our entire legislation, and we have a period that the European Commission has given us in order to bring our legislation into line and we 27 are already doing it. So, when it comes to the census, and when we pass a population description law, of course we should keep in mind the European Parliament and the Council's documents as an executive body relating to the census, so that we don't have to change our legislation later, and here are the mandatory data that the census should contain. 27 EU members do not list their population by religion or language or by nation, but rather by those elements and indicators that are relevant for the census, both at regional and local level. And that's why we're against the principle of this law. Of course, we will be for the census to meet the conditions required by the European Commission and the EU but for those benchmarks that are common to EU countries.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2981	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo. Mr. Zno, then Mr. Vidović, then Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2982	I welcome you all once again. Just a few words about the Bill's proposal for a census from our esteemed colleague, Slobodan Šaraba. Thank him for his efforts and for trying to make a very important law and send it to procedure. I'll probably repeat myself here in the context of what's already been said by my colleagues. But it doesn't matter. This should be talked about and a little bit wider, because I agree absolutely with Mr Rajić that what might seem irrelevant in the world somewhere, which is really just statistics, is really important to us and it's not just statistics. Chuck, it's not even supposed to be politics, it's a lot more than statistics and politics. Because, I'm sorry, the fact is that today as a country we function, we live and work on the principles, the statistical principles of the last list because everything else is disturbed. We have preserved these principles as the form and formula that we are acting on today and through which we are working today or, better say, we are trying to function. I will conclude that the census needs us and that this list will happen in 2011, and that is the fact. We, of that fact, better said than required, which is no longer our only European, that is the year of the EU census, we will not be able to avoid it. But until then, we have a few more things to work out so we don't have this kind of discussion about the need for a list. We all know, by different committees, we have so far faced a hundred problems resulting from a lack of statistical data, where the list is exclusively in the function of statistics but, unfortunately, it is much more than that and we are talking about it today. We are talking, or I will first conclude that the normal list is indeed an abnormal process before what we call a change to the BiH Constitution. The change of the Constitution also implies this process, i.e. the list of both households and the population, although I would not now enter here the reference of certain elements of each list, because not all lists are the same, you will forgive me. The list of us is referenced by something else we try or don't recognize or exclude from this. The constitution defines this country as a nation of nations and national minorities, but it is fundamentally defined as a country of three constituent nations. According to this, 28 which is, now I'm asking a further question, what is it referenced to every nation? Is it as referenced as it is, is it referenced to what language it speaks? If that's not a reference, then what's really a reference to us? And if that, or if we question that reference, or if we can question that reference, then we can't talk about the reference at all anymore. There's no more reference. Then we relativize absolutely everything. So we're entering a phase of absolute relativism that leads to what I personally, truly, and as a member of a nation I won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2983	Thank you very much, Mr. Zrn. Mr. Vidović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2984	Thank you, Mr. President. A lot of what I was going to say was said completely by colleagues Rajić and Zrno. But when I answered, of course I don't want to give up. In some parts, I would like to confirm what is said, and especially for the reasons that I and as a member of the Constitutional Committee spoke about it when we discussed the constitutional basis of the adoption of this law, and it can indeed be confirmed that the statistical list is needed for every normally regulated country. However, when we talk about the principles and the moment at which we talk about the adoption of this law and also respecting and esteeming the efforts made by the envoys of Mr. Šaraba, here, who has joined this business of an important law for BiH, therefore these efforts should certainly be appreciated. However, such an important law would make sense and open up as a debate in the Council of Ministers, especially for political reasons, which the predecessors spoke of. And they're already explained in their discussions, I won't repeat it, but I just want to say because of the stenogram that I also have no willingness to support the principles of this law today, because that same thinking is among those four that were against when we spoke on the Constitutional Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2985	Thank you very much, Mr. Vidović. Mr. Ljubičić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2986	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow delegates, distinguished guests! Mr. Šaraba, as the legislator of this law, gave his comment and explanation of the bill. And I only answered for a reason to say that we will support this bill. I also want to repeat only the findings that have been made by colleagues before me: that the census of BiH's population and households is for several reasons necessary and necessary for this country, so BiH is needed. I wouldn't repeat what my colleagues said about it, I just support that finding and I also want to say the same thing. 29 The demographic picture in BiH has changed significantly, and it is clear to everyone. And we can't get away from that picture, either, meaning the state and reality that is present in BiH. Any time that list happens, that list will show for sure that reality. Try to run from that reality, so today, we won't be able to escape tomorrow. I don't know, and I wouldn't want to judge it at all. To escape from living in BiH with Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin, to speak Bosniak, Croatian, Serbian in BiH, to live alongside these others, which the census should show!? I think really, I don't know what we want to do with this list. Because BiH is such a country, and that list should confirm that it is. For these reasons, we will uphold this law. And I want to mention more. So, the attitude from the RS on the list is well known, and I don't want to repeat it here and comment on it, and I also want to point out that the attitude of the party I belong to also means Mr. Koprivica, and the attitude that Mr. Šaraba belongs to, here I am speaking for him, also known. So I just want to say in the end that we will support this law. And we're pushing for a BiH census based on those principles that have been talked about a lot so far, and I'm saying, here, I don't want to repeat it now and take away... time, because it's also famous. Just to confirm that attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2987	Thank you, Mr. Ljubičić. I've only reported Mr. Jović. Here's a word. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2988	Thank you very much. I'll try to be very brief, because the predecessors, the distinguished colleagues have talked a lot about this issue, but I'm also finding out what they are and they needed a lot of thoughtfulness here that didn't miss the gentleman, the esteemed representative of Šarab, to make a proposal, to encourage thinking that this is one need, the civilization need of a country to come to this, and I would be extremely interested that as soon as possible to get to that list. Because unfortunately there would be a black painting in BiH, which is that the Croatian people are missing 40%. And the loss of war and everything that happened about it would have been addressed, I believe through these indicators, exactly what happened to the Hrvat in BiH. However, I also cannot support at this time to come up with a list of the public for reasons that respected colleagues from our club have presented and, in order not to repeat myself, I would not even say that, we appreciate the time. But something I haven't heard here today, and it's necessary to say. We have here, I have a feeling, polarizing what they need and what questions are on the list, it is unquestionable and unquestionable to me. And the reason? BiH, apart from being on its way to the EU and being a geographical European country, is a UN member. And what we have received The Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration is quite logical to be presented with such a document telling us what the EC needs from the indicators and the statistics of the public? So, they did not say or dictate to their members what they should do and what is the subject of the list, but simply said what are the values they are interested in, and here in this opinion it is said that they would also form EU institutions and enable the monitoring of the policy of the community. Normally, the functioning of this community’s policy does not apply to how many a believer is, and how many nationalities, etc. 30 But gentlemen, I will repeat, we are a UN country, a member of the UN that prescribes it, and the Directorate could not give us such an answer, because it does not refer to the issue of European integration, quite logically. And for those reasons, there's no question for me whether it's going to be, here's said three, there may be more questions to discuss, whether we're going to list nationality, religion, and I don't know what else is said today, and it's not necessarily, yes, it's worse... we're going to talk about it, there's no dilemma. We simply must and should do so in accordance with the needs of the UN. Each year, the UN comes out with its calendar statistically and for all countries of the world that are members of the UN. And it just starts every text: the first is the name of the country, the surface and then the relevant indicators are coming in at the UN's disposal. And especially for our internal policy and the state in which we are, in which it is emphasized by the Constitution, it is necessary and I don't think that it should be a discussion of such issues, let alone confrontations.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2989	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. It wasn't very short. Anybody else want a word? Mr. Šaraba. Is there anyone else who answers your question? We'll close the debate after Mr. Šaraba. Here you go, Mr. Šarab.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2990	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's why I answered, wanting to say only two or three sentences after discussing all my distinguished colleagues. I am really glad that in the discussion of my colleagues, I heard that everyone agrees on three key things together, which is: that the list is needed in BiH, that this is a political issue, too, it is very important and very important to find out, and I think everyone agrees that the list of issues that should be opened, that is, to be completed in 2011. I truly believe that in the ruling coalition and in that part of the ruling coalition's parties, no matter what happens today with this law, there will be overcoming awareness and one need to overcome certain things that exist between them unresolved, in order to ultimately eliminate all the dilemmas that exist and this significant work, I say, which everyone has advocated should be done and completed by 2011. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2991	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and I'm opening up, just to remind you, before I open the vote, we're now going to make a statement about the opinion of the Commission that's negative. Supporting, so I must stress what it means, by supporting a negative position, this law is out of the process. By failing to support this position, we return this to the Committee for Co-operation in relation to the remarks we have heard in the debate. I'm opening a vote. Access the plea. 31 we do not have support from the RS entity. Support is unanimous in the Federation entity. We'll wait for Mr. Tihić, because the two of us should – please call him someone, he went to the office – to join the match as before. May I have your patience, please? We don't have the consent here that this law goes into further procedure. Since we do not have an entity third, we are going to the second round of voting in which I ask them to vote; if we have two thirds and more votes "against" from one entity, then this law, this report, in fact, we vote on the report, this report will be returned to the Committee. I ask that those who are against this report be made known. Only those who are "against" this report from the RS entity vote. Wait a minute. Join the vote. So we don't have two-thirds of the "against", this law remains, this report has been accepted in a negative sense and the law has stalled in the procedure, so there is no longer a procedure in the House of Nations. We're going to the 12th point, that's "Ad." 12. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, BiH police and state officials in peace support operations for the period from 1. Nine. 2007-29. 2. 2008 You have received the Report – please just a little silence in the gallery, be good, hear the echo here, mind our work – you have received the report from the competent commission and I will give you the information that the House of Representatives adopted this report which is now on the agenda. We have the report, and we have this conclusion. So, I'm opening a debate and I'm asking who wants a word? Mr. Zrna, then Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2993	Thank you very much. I will be harassing you a little more, although we are not used to the report to make some arguments and introductory opinions, but here is a specific report, and therefore I wanted to ask you to manifest yourself or accept yourself, because I call on you to accept this report, with the Report you will also accept the Opinion of the Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, police and state officials of BiH in peace support operations for the period from 1. Nine. 2007-29. 2. 2008 This report has passed the prescribed procedure, so it was accepted in the BiH presidency, it was accepted by the Council of Ministers, but in its coming to Parliament it was also required to pass the procedure adopted, i.e. assessments in the Defence and Security Committee. What was probably not seen in either the Presidency or the Council of Ministers – it was seen on our commission. First of all, the delay in this report and the warning to the competent institution, the Ministry of Defence, that neither it will nor can be tolerated in future work. That attitude is accepted, 32 here is written. And what's even more important here: this report contains some elements that don't belong to it, they stayed here and warned us about this. It is points 7 and 8 that discuss future missions, please, about future missions in the 'ISA Mission in Afghanistan' and 'UNAMID Mission in Dakfur in Sudan. This report is about what didn't even start, and it didn't end the procedure. In order for this report to contain these two elements, decisions must first be taken in the presidency, in the Council of Ministers and in the BiH Parliament. So we simply accept the report without these points, points 7 and 8 That was my intention to tell me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2994	Thank you very much, Mr. Zrn. You haven't said anything about this conclusion. It's short, so I'll read it later. Mr. Šaraba, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2995	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I had a need to say more about this report. Given that I was in a situation in the past not only to read these reports but also to walk into Iraq, so I believe that we in Parliament really need to open up a broader discussion of this extremely important issue, which is to send members of the Armed Forces of BiH to such peacekeeping missions which, I will say my own personal opinion, extremely, extremely dangerous, extremely difficult, and I would disagree with this finding standing here in this report, which is: that the security situation is complex. What I experienced in Iraq during that stay is a state of war. So we're either down or we're in a war situation and I'm really asking a question here because of the general public, and also because of ourselves, my distinguished colleagues here: Do we really know the real situation that's down in Iraq and do we really know the real situation where we send these young people, who go down there for a few months for a basic reason that people have a hard time living and people are having a hard time living in this complex time, and going to Iraq is a situation for people to solve some of their life's problems after going down!? So, I object personally to going on a mission to Iraq for the following reasons. The first is that the conditions of stay in Iraq are extremely, extremely difficult and complex. We've come down to a temperature that's over 50 degrees, so 52, 53, 54 degrees and more. In such conditions to move, to stay, to work, to go to the field, indeed to pull up a number of problems, mostly health and I personally think that the work of people from this space in such weather conditions to send people to work in such weather conditions is really not human at all. The second reason is because it's there, I said, so it's a war situation. What happens very often there is shelling and, thank Bog, it is a happy circumstance that so far the BiH teams... have not had any problems in this respect and, thank Bog, everyone has returned from the bottom healthy. Meanwhile, there was an expansion of this mission, so two months ago, to one extraordinary, so I point out my personal opinion again, a dangerous place we sent a mission, we sent 50 young people to control the entry from one part of Baghdad to another, so that's the contact with civilians who are extremely dangerous. And I personally believe that this mission, regardless, may have had some other opinion, is faced with a very risky position in which it is located. 33 And in the end, I will say my own opinion. Where I wouldn't send my child, I wouldn't send anyone from BiH! So I don't think this mission should be extended in the next period, that this mission should be kept at this level and that this mission of sending it to such a risky area should not be extended and should be completed after these two rotations that are finally down and halted, until the conditions of human beings are truly different and until the Iraq area is a war zone. And in the end, I'm going to say that, in my opinion, these positive and negative effects of these missions have not been well established. Of course, that's what we're going to talk about on our commissions, on which we're normally considering these materials. I believe that the positive and negative effects of sending members of the Armed Forces to BiH and police officers need from a positive and negative aspect to be far, far more broadly explained than they were done in this document. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2996	Thank you very much, Mr. Šarab. Reports are no more, I'm closing the hearing. And we will approach the vote first on the Report, and then on the conclusion with this report contained in point 3. b). It's very hidden, one sentence. Read it in the meantime. I'm opening a vote. Access the report's decision. The plea is closed. With one vote "against" the Report was accepted. I will read the conclusion, so the conclusion is: ‘Because the report has been re-delivered with a significant delay, it is expressed dissatisfaction with the failure to comply with the reporting deadlines from the competent institutions, which is necessary to change in the next period by making it necessary for each reporting period to submit the report to the parliamentary procedure within 60 days of the expiry of the reporting period.’ Please, approach the vote. The vote is over. The conclusion received unanimous support. So we exhausted the point of the 12th agenda. Very soon, although there are 30 points, I don't think we're going to spend more than 30 to 40 minutes, most of all we're going to be at one of those points. Point 13 is: 34 Ad. 13. Proposal for a conclusion of the 10th plenary session of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, held on 30th Seven. 2008 concerning the implementation of the obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement I would remind you, at the 10th joint session of both homes after the discussion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, a conclusion was adopted which the conclusions were drawn in the debate addressed to the Joint Committee on European Integration in order to give an opinion on the proposed conclusions and, accordingly, to the adoption of conclusions on which this committee gives a positive opinion. The commission acted the way both homes concluded 10. 9th delivered an opinion proposing the adoption of the conclusions in six points agreed in the Joint Committee. You have received the opinion of the Joint Committee on European Integration. I'm opening the debate. Anybody want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a plea, opening the process of declaring this proposal. Here you go. I would like to conclude that, with one "abstained" voice and 12 "for" we accepted the proposal for conclusions from the 10th plenary session. We're going to the 14th point, that's "Ad." 14. Information on crimes against life and bodies, with an emphasis on domestic violence for 2006 and 2007 and trends in the first three months of 2008
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u2999	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it's very good that we here in front of ourselves today have this information about these crimes that are, indeed, specific, given their character and since it leaves deep psychic traces on the victims. What's very good is that there were finally conditions in society that began to be talked about in public. But what's very worrying is that lately, in the last three years, there has been an increase in the number of these crimes. In fact, if we look at statistics in the Federation of BiH and in the RS, it can be concluded that the number of... of these crimes is increasing, that their trend in growth is and I really support the 35 conclusions presented at the session of the Constitutional Commission, which is to hold a public debate on this information and to try, indeed, to agree on very concrete measures that will allow us to face much more force in the fight with this problem that exists in our society. What is my personal objection, and of course I will talk about it at the debate that will be, and what I presented on the Constitutional Legal Commission, is that the 'Proposed Measures and Actions' which were proposed at the end of this document should be much more concrete, in particular point 1 and point 2 of the proposal for measures and actions, since it speaks of the introduction of stricter sanctions for these acts and since it is referred to in point 2 of the court procedure which should be updated for the short term. So I think that the public debate on this is very necessary, as I also believe that the 'Proposed Measures and Actions' proposed in this document should be quite concrete in order to have far better effects than this information and what it will produce at some later stage.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u3000	Thank you very much, Mr. Šarab. No one's answered their word again. Wait a minute, replicas. Replica, Mr. Rančić first answered, electronics doesn't lie, and then Mrs. Čolo. Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u3001	Thank you very much. I want to correct the quote of my esteemed colleague, Šaraba. Namely, he claimed it was an increase in these crimes that did not stand in the Information. The information says that in 2007, for example on page 3, 2,634 crimes against life and the body were recorded, which is less 3,91%, and 66 murder crimes, which is less 12.12% compared to 2006. The same trend is on page 4 regarding the murders,...so important fact that 28 cases have been lit up, which is 96.6% of that serious crime, adding that 10 previous-term murders have been lit up during the observed period. The Brcko District in 2007, so on page 5, 64 crimes against life and body were recorded, which is 11.11% less than in 2006. In one part, therefore, related to domestic violence, there has been an increase, it seems to me, in the Federation of BiH, while in RS it is falling, therefore, while crimes from the area are falling. Thus, it is not estimated that there has been an increase in criminal acts. Here, in 2007 compared to 2006
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u3002	Thank you very much. First, the answer to the line: Mr. Šaraba, then Mrs. Čolo. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u3003	I just want to say that I made a certain mistake in my explanation. So when I spoke of these acts, I meant the crimes of domestic violence. So all my reasoning went that way, for these crimes. I find them extremely specific, extremely complex and my discussion was focused on these works. So in that direction, I think this clarification and this answer of mine will help Mr. Rančić clarify the situation I was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u3004	The problem observed by Mr. Rančić has been removed. Mrs. Čolo, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u3005	Here, I think it is good that this information was found today in front of our home, although when I read it, I was thinking why we are discussing today the crimes of domestic violence, and we are not discussing some other criminal acts, and then I saw that this came from this conclusion of the BiH Parliament when we discussed the Information on the security situation in BiH for 2007. I think the information is very good, because it is comprehensive and it has been shown that data available by internal affairs authorities, as well as data available by BiH courts and prosecutors. However, I cannot disagree with one of the data given on page 10. These are the records of the cantonal prosecutions. So, what did the Federation cantonal prosecutors do in processing these crimes? So we have Canton Sarajevo. We have the Cantonal Prosecution here, we have a total of 225 charges received, that there are only 40 charges brought and 20 proceedings pending. There are 165 procedures left, which you don't know what's going on with them. 165 reports involving 201 women in Canton of Sarajevo, the BiH capital, that we have so many unprocessed applications for domestic violence. I really don't know what the High Court and Prosecution Council is doing following the work of the judiciary. We as a BiH Parliament and as a legislative authority are constantly reminding us not to interfere in the work of the judiciary, but I think it is very important to protect the victims of the crime. It is very important for the BiH state to end the proceedings within a reasonable period of time, because it is a Article 6. The European conventions and BiH are responsible unless procedures are carried out within a reasonable period of time. Unlike the Sarajevo Cantonal Prosecutor's Office, which is so inefficient, we have an example. The Cantonal Prosecutor's Office of Unsko-San canton, which of the 160 cases has 143 indictments and Tuzla Canton, which of 139 has 91 charged. I think that in this public debate a report should be requested from the High Court and Prosecutorial Council – what has it done to analyse this data? Because they have, every year, collected data from courts and prosecutors and means what measures they will take to ensure that these actions in Canton of Sarajevo do not last this long and that they do not end up like this without any data – whether these perpetrators are prosecuted or not, which is evidence that the victims of these crimes are not protected, and given the international convention and the rights of the child and other international 37 conventions that protect both women and children who are victims of domestic violence, which, of course, does not exclude members of the male sex, who also, and men who may be victims of violence.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u3006	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo. So I conclude that you suggested one conclusion, if I can be free and interpret it in the way I understood it. That you are proposing a conclusion that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council would carry out an analysis and determine the measures it will take. To run an analysis of the information we're discussing today. Is that it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u3007	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u3008	Write a conclusion while we're having a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u3009	... cases of long trial, non-judgment, especially in the Canton of Sarajevo prosecution, of course the Cantonal and Municipal Court in Sarajevo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u3010	We'll transfer your conclusion from the stenogram, we heard it. Anybody else want a word? I hereby conclude the debate and propose a statement of information and two conclusions. The conclusion we have in our opinion, in the opinion of the Constitutional Commission and this conclusion that we have just heard. Access the information statement, which I suggest we take to the knowledge. I realize we did it unanimously. Thank you very much. We will now approach the vote on this conclusion which is very shy, at the end of this opinion of the Constitutional Commission, written. I would suggest to Dr Hasić, the secretary of the Constitutional Commission, and to all others who serve constitutionally and all other committees, that the conclusions be drawn as a special act in the composition of that opinion, that we do not have to find it, but that we can see it very easily. He says, "The conclusion which obliges the Constitutional Commission to participate in an extended public debate and to deliver the results of an extended debate to the House of Peoples after its completion for information." Access the plea. I agree that we unanimously accepted this conclusion. 38 Now I ask you to approach the statement of the proposal of the conclusion which the ministry will take off the stenogram and which Mrs. Čolo has made. You can vote. I also find that we unanimously accepted Mrs. Cholo's proposal for a conclusion, thereby exhausting point 14. We're going to point 15, that's ad. 15. Consideration of possibilities to continue the procedure for the appointment of the Ombudsman for BiH human rights and deputy chief auditor from the Bosniak people Even though we're tired, we've been working around the clock since this morning, I'd just like to remind you, and you listen carefully. So, in order to clarify the problem of the appointment of the BiH Ombudsman and the deputy chief auditor from the Bosniak people, a joint session of both homes was held on 10 September this year. Business opportunities have been sought to end proceedings without breaking the law regulating these issues. Before making initial proposals, I would like to inform you of the facts that might help you in the process of showing these questions. When it comes to the appointment of the Ombudsman at the BiH Ombudsman Institution, I will remind you that the House of Representatives is at the 32nd session, held on 14th. Seven. In 2008, the majority of votes in the BiH Ombudsman institution were named by three persons: Mr Ljubomir Sandić of the Serb people, Mr Mariofil Ljubić of the Croatian people and Mrs Emina Halilović of the Bosniak people. The home of the people is held at the 19th session, held on 23rd. Seven. In 2008, Mr Ljubomir Sandic of the Serbian people, Mr Ivo Bradica of the Croatian people and Mrs Jasminka Džumhur of the Bosniak people named Mr Ljubomir Sandić at the BiH Ombudsman's institution. The procedure was carried out on the basis of a proposal from the candidate list for the appointment of the Ombudsman submitted by the Ad hoc commission. It is clear that we have identical decisions only when it comes to candidates from the Serb people, until homes have appointed the same candidates from Bosniak and Croatian peoples. HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: The Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH has been found that the Ombudsman's institution consists of three persons under the obligation to appoint all three ombudsmans at the same time. On this issue, the High Representative for BiH sent a letter to the members of the Joint College and to the heads of the club of MPs and clubs of the people, which states, quoting: 'The Joint College of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is encouraged to reach an agreement on which two candidates, one Bošnjak, or one Hrvat, will appoint two homes. Both homes will then vote on candidates, so that the three ombudsmen will be both appointed to the Ombudsman institution." 39 While cijeniti everything previously, the Joint College of both homes discussed the possibilities for finding a compromise solution and suggested that homes be shown about one of the proposals discussed at a meeting of the Joint College of both homes. First proposal. The first proposal is: 'Fomit a commission whose members will be three representatives and three MPs, which will work to agree on proposals for the appointment of the ombudsman from the Croatian and Bosniak people, according to the principles of harmonising the text of the law. Article 117 The Rules of Procedure specify the procedure for harmonising the law, but they are not prohibited from agreeing, so the conclusion on this issue would be treated as a regulation of specific issues which are not regulated by the Rules of Procedure, as indicated in Article 158 of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the House.' Second proposal. The second proposal is: 'Renovate the entire procedure of the appointment of the Ombudsman in the BiH Ombudsman Institution and appoint three members from both homes in the Ad hoc commission that would implement the procedure and refer proposals to homes according to the law.' Dear colleagues, the solution we accept today will be implemented and I suggest you engage actively in order to overcome this situation and ensure the establishment of the Ombudsman institution in BiH. When it comes to the procedure for the appointment of a deputy chief auditor from the Bosniak people, I will remind you that at the 29th session, held on 4th. Six. In 2008, the House of Representatives for the Deputy Chief Auditor of the Bosniak People appointed Ms. Munevera Bahtić, and the House of Peoples at the 18th session, held 17. Six. In 2008, Mr. Dževad Mekić. In order for the candidate to be appointed deputy chief auditor, he must obtain a qualified majority of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. I remind you of the obligation set out in Article 24. The Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions which found that, I quote: 'The Chief Auditor and Deputy Chief Auditor shall appoint Parliament on a proposal from the Committee for Elections' (almost a quote). In this case, there are no provisions on a single institution consisting of three persons or provisions on simultaneous appointment. In order to address this problem, proposals have been submitted to those of the previous issue, i.e. we should decide: (a) to agree on candidates for the post of deputy chief auditor from the Bosniak people and the appointment of three representatives to the Joint Committee for the Implementation of the Consensation Procedure as with the Ombudsman, or (b) to repeat the procedure of appointing three members to the Ad hoc Commission for the Selection of Deputy Chief Auditor, which is indicated in Article 4. The law on the revision of the BiH institution, and the solution it accepts as the House, we are obliged to implement and make a decision at the House. These are the suggestions and suggestions that we discussed at the Joint College session of both homes and at today's session I expect your understanding and insight that would help solve the problems that have arisen. I'll remind you further that the House of Representatives has adopted a conclusion on the accession of the consent procedure. The House of Representatives appointed Mr Ekrem Ajanović, Drago Kalabić and Velimir Jukić to the Joint Committee for Harmonization of the Designation of 40 Ombudsmans for Human Rights. The Joint Committee for the Consensus of the appointment of deputy chief auditor from the Bosniak people was appointed Šemsudin Mehmedović, Vinko Zorić and Hadži Jovan Mitrović. I would, after this chronology of events, after all this has happened, and as determined by the House of Representatives, open a debate in our home. Mr. Šaraba picked up the first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u3012	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I've carefully listened to everything you've brought out here and I haven't really been able to find an answer to a basic question that I've asked myself here, which is: what is this business foothold for this agenda point? So, Article 116. The Rules of Procedure refer to the appointment of a joint committee to bring the text of the law into line, and that is what does not stand in this case; and Article 153. The Rules of Procedure which you have now made, Mr. Chairman, speak, or 158 about: it speaks of regulating certain questions. Then, in that case, it would be necessary to draw an appropriate conclusion, and that conclusion here is not proposed in this agenda, because then the agenda point should be 'Making the conclusion of the alignment' and then, of course, could be talked about continuing further procedure. So, we don't have that conclusion here, and in my opinion, we don't have the possibility of agreeing in this way, because the text of the law is being brought together, and the alignment of the name can't be done, nor, in my opinion, has such an opportunity to match the name. We've got one name on one side, we've got another name on the other side, and now we're going towards forming a committee that will bring names together. I really don't think that there's any basis, but here's what I'm talking about, I have to say that in this job about the election of the Ombudsman there's too much politics involved and that the consequence of this political interference in this choice, and politics should have absolutely stood aside, we have this situation right now. During the election, such stories were created about individual candidates that it was already out of the media, from the means of information, it was clear that they had been eliminated at the beginning. And I have to say the name of Mr. Vitomir Popović. So it was clear from all the signs in the press that he was one of the candidates who absolutely had no chance and that was to be discussed elsewhere, not by means of information. So I personally express my opposition to this way of choosing the Ombudsman and this kind of variant that has been approached in the end to bring the name into line, and that, in my opinion, is absolutely not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u3013	Thank you very much, Mr. Šarab. I'm just obliged to explain. I also warned that you were following me, I believe that I made this argument so clear that it was quite clear how it was going to this day. I also mentioned the provision of Article 158 of our Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure are before us, and we can see 41 that this provision provides us with the possibility that the House can reach a conclusion and regulate that question that has not been regulated or has not been correctly regulated by the Rules of Procedure, and that conclusion is only valid for the question that we are making. So, after the debate, I'll suggest a conclusion. Don't worry about it, Mr. Šarab. Who wants another word? Mrs Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u3014	Well, believe me, when we made that decision at the House that wasn't identical to the House of Representatives' decision, I was thinking about how to overcome this situation. So the agreement procedure itself, the truth, is foreseen for laws, but we have one provision in Article 143 relating to other acts that the House makes, and the House and the Club can make declarations, decisions, recommendations, conclusions and other acts, and the position (3) states that the vote is carried out in accordance with the established decision-making method in the House. This way is the same for both the laws and these other acts and I don't think they are specific names, these are election decisions, or the appointment of an Ombudsman in the Ombudsman's institution and the election of a general auditor, because in the end, these are acts taken by this Parliament and I think that analogy can be applied to laws, when it comes to the harmonisation of laws that have been adopted in different texts in homes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u3015	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo. Excuse me, I followed the Rules of Procedure. __________? [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, I've got here now, you just checked in, I've registered your application. Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u3017	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, at the beginning, I join that opinion that does not accept, firstly, this way of working, and, secondly, this way of resolving this extremely important issue for BiH as a whole. So I object that this important item of the agenda is orally referred to. It would be the least to do that the College made a written proposal and delivered it to the representatives so that they could consider it, not to remember every detail up to the interoperability values. That's the first question. 42 Second question. In his reasoning of the proposal, Mr Chairman reminded of the provisions of Article 3. The Law on Ombudsmans and warned that they, as well as auditors, were elected, as I understood, at one point, or in the package, which is a very problematic interpretation of that provision that we listened to and listened to various texts. So they are an institution like three people who choose, and nowhere is it clearly defined and clarified whether they have to choose at the same time or package. I wouldn't deal with controversy about that question. The question stemming from this knowledge is: Is it possible that the College of the House of Representatives and the College of the House of Peoples, when deciding on the selection of the Ombudsman, or the auditor and their deputies, did not know about the provision of this article, which Mr Filipović today quotes. So, it's about later brains. It is very common in our practice that some political options are very united, very close to BiH, especially in the Federation, have changed their minds after certain decisions that have been voted upon, and could be eliminated very easily in the House of Representatives. So it could not have happened that the candidates, very explicitly I will say that, which is supported by the SDA and HDZBiH – had then had this belief that they had later before us, could never have chosen other names that were selected. So, that's an ex-post mind, and now we're bound to suffer the consequences of that subsequent agreement. I just don't accept that approach. The question of people doing human rights protection work, so the Ombudsman, should be a question of our moral and political sensitivity, when we talk about these candidates. It is obvious that political motives have exceeded here and that, among other things, we are offered such responsible and highly sensitive functions by people from the former repressive system. The most orthodox representatives of the repressive system have become the candidates we... should choose. So I'm against it, even though I know, I'm aware, I know the ratio and the law of numbers, I know that three more than two, that seven more than six. I know I won't change your intentions or your decisions, but I'm obliged to say it for the public and for my conscience. I don't accept repression, bringing people from the repressive apparatus to protect human rights and freedoms of citizens in the BIH. Here, one of the colleagues already mentioned the question of doubt by applying Article 117. Rules of Procedure, including Article 158. A kolegica, Čolo, now found an opportunity in Article 143. Even if it were legally correct, I oppose the analogy of dealing with such important issues as the Ombudsman issue and the matter of the BiH auditors. Therefore, the only logical way is the way, and it should not have waited this long to be announced, that the contest for the election of ombudsmans and auditors at BiH level failed and that it was being renewed. Because it says here that the procedure for the appointment is restored, or the election. I mean, it has to be... that it's a renewal of the competition, no procedures, no alignments and voting over some names. And in the end, I'm going to say something that's falling away from the practice that we can follow on the political scene in BiH. Many in BiH are justified and often unjustly calling for something called the international community, the Office of the High Representative, the OSCE, NATO, the World Bank, etc., when they need arguments for something. I don't call on those institutions ever, because I know they're not here to solve our problems but to help us solve our problems. 43 As far as I know, the Office of the High Representative reacted very negatively to two opposing decisions by the two homes on the issue of the election of ombudsman and auditors in BiH. When there has been a change in their attitude that they accept this bargaining behaviour here, through various committees, or commission, I am not familiar with it, but for principle reasons I am opposed to both the procedure and the way this is presented to us and I will vote against, of course, which will not stop the will of the coalition in the Federation of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u3018	Thank you very much. We heard the position of Mr. Božo Rajić. Anybody else want a word? I am concluding the debate and I propose that we vote on the conclusion number 1 which we approach the process of agreeing on different decisions of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, which reads: 'As this issue is not regulated by the Rules of Procedure of the House of People, in accordance with Article 158. The Rules of Procedure, access to the procedure for agreeing different decisions, and for this purpose, the House of Nations will appoint three members to the Joint Coordination Committee." In preparation for this session, I also received proposals from clubs for the composition of this commission. I'd rather make a statement about this proposal to the conclusion I've made. We've got the Košnjak Club, there's four people present here, there's plenty of us. I would like to make a statement of the proposal for a conclusion that as well as the House of Representatives, we will approach the consent procedure, and after that we will appoint a working group of our home from one representative from all three clubs. Who is it to suggest that we approach the agreement of different decisions of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, to reach such a conclusion? The possibility of a vote has been opened. We have three votes "against", one vote from RS. We have the necessary entity majority, nine votes "yes". So we approach the process of agreeing with different decisions. We must now appoint members of this committee. So, I have a proposal that from the Bosniak People's Club it's Hazim Rančić to agree to the appointment of the Ombudsman for human rights. So from the Club of Bosniaks Mr. Hazim Rančić, from the Croatian Club Mr. Branko Zrno and from the Club of the Serbian People Mr. Drago Ljubičić. I'm putting on a statement of the suggestions you've heard. I'm opening the voting procedure. Access the plea. I find that with three votes "against", with nine votes "yes" and a sufficient entity majority, this working group is accepted: the Committee for the Consent of the Ombudsman for Human Rights. 44 As for the appointment of members of the Committee for the Consensation of Deputy Chief Auditor from the Bosniak People, I received a proposal from the Bosniak Club that it was Mrs Alma Čolo, from the Croatian Club that it was Mr Miro Ivo Jović and the Serbian Club that it was Drago Ljubičić. Please, there's an open possibility of a vote. Access the plea. We have the same result: nine votes "yes", "against" we have three, enough entity majority and I agree that we have appointed Mrs. Alma Čolo, Mr. Ivo Mir Jović of the Croatian people and Mr. Drago Ljubičić of the Serbian people as deputy chief auditor of the Bosniak people. I hereby conclude the debate and the declaration of point 15. We're going to the 16th point, that's "Ad." 16. Giving consent to ratifying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and Bosnia and Herzegovina I thank you for the persistent and patient monitoring of our home to Ambassador Topčagić, who is here as director of the Directorate for European Integration, and has joined us here also as Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr Alkalaj. I will take this opportunity and welcome more Professor Sejo Avdić, who has been following our work since the beginning. It is a longtime representative and president of Parliament. So I welcome him in a special way. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise before I give my word to the authorising officer that, immediately after the entry into force of this Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we have held consultations in the College, called this session, in order to give consent to its ratification because of the importance of the Agreement for BiH and us in the House of Peoples. Meanwhile, we have come to the realization that the Interim Trade Agreement does not need to be considered in order to give consent to ratification, so the Bureau has been asked to make a statement. On 17 October, the Bureau submitted a new letter replacing an earlier letter requesting only a review of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and BiH, on the other hand. As you know, because of the vastness of the material, only clubs have provided the Agreement in writing, and it has been delivered to all MPs in an electronic version. The House's competent committee discussed the Agreement and delivered an opinion to the House proposing that the approval be given to ratifying this international legal act. I remind you that we in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly carried out and presented the Agreement, and that we held a full debate at a joint session of both homes. 45 I would like to invite the Director of the Directorate for European Integration to present to the House a shorter opening statement on the Agreement. So, Mr. Topčagić, introduce us to the very act of giving consent to ratification. I believe it won't be too long. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u3020	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear delegates of the House of Peoples, as you have heard and as you know, at a joint session of both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Interim Agreement were presented. Afterwards, I would like to inform you that it was accepted by the Council of Ministers and the Action Plan for the implementation of the obligations under the Interim Agreement that came into force immediately after the signing and was published in the Official Messenger. The Action Plan for implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement has also been adopted. One important commitment under the Agreement is the adoption of the 2007 European Partnership Action Plan and the Council of Ministers adopted such an Action Plan. Also, our part of the Interim Committee was appointed as bodies that follow the implementation of the Interim Agreement and held the first Interim Committee meeting on 7 October, together with representatives of the European Commission. The general assessment is that the Interim Agreement in BiH is successfully applied and this is an important incentive to continue to apply all other obligations in the coming period. Here, in this short introduction, I would like to point out that on 22 and 23 October, the European Parliament adopted a Resolution on BiH which, among other things, calls on the European Union Member States to join the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement as soon as possible and, as we are informed, has already been notified by one Member State and has ratified the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. This is how, citing what we have done in this context, after a joint session of both Houses of Parliament, I would like to ask you to give your consent to the BiH Presidency to ratify the Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u3021	Thank you very much, Mr. Topčagić. I again find that we lack one Serbian voice. I'm going to ask Mr. Ljubičić to bring in Koprivica. A little patience. Until Mr. Koprivica arrives, I'll open the debate. So, we can lead the debate, but we can't decide. I, just a little bit, don't lose any of this story from this agenda point, I'm opening a debate. We can discuss it. We can't decide. Until he gets here, so quorum, we'll discuss it. When we close the debate, if there's no quorum, we'll wait. Here you go, Mr. Jović. 46 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u3022	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am pleased that we have also welcomed this ratification from the EU of this Treaty. I'll do something about this document we didn't get here. As it is a document that involves finalising the contract with the EU, we have received three pages of the text from the relevant factors. How often in my remarks I say that what is important for Europe, and that means the principles of equality, human rights, should also apply to us, so that we have received one document in Serbian and two in Bosniak! In signature, if I may say so, there are three men from three nations. So, as it is a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU, it would be at least instructive if we had also received these documents in the languages of the people of BiH. And the second thing I was interested in saying is that in a letter from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that was delivered, you have it in the attachment, he says, "I submit a proposal for a decision to ratify the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and Bosnia." I think it's incorrect and it's not good. We well, here who are all sitting, know that it is an agreement between BiH. I think it's good to make it right.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-27-0.u3023	Of course it's necessary to correct it. In the Constitution of the States, there is no keybinding. The state has its full name and last name. Her name is Bosnia and Herzegovina. Anybody else want a word? I am concluding the debate and I call on you to give our consent to ratify this important agreement for BiH. The possibility of a plea has been opened. Please plead. I agree that, unanimously, with 11 votes "yes", we have declared our agreement on ratification, not one vote "against". In this way, I would like to point out once again the importance of this act that we have done and given our consent to ratify this important act and stress that there is only one major obligation for us to implement what this international legal act – the Stabilisation and Association Agreement requires of us. I would call on all the factors involved in implementing this Stabilisation Agreement, in meeting all the conditions, to accept jobs, not politicising. That's what we concluded and exhausted point 16. Since all the international legal acts that we need to give consent to ratify them are below, I suggest that from the act in paragraph 17 to the act in paragraph 30, we give the package one decision to ratify the proposed international legal acts. I'm asking who's for the decision package. Please plead for the decision package. Join the vote. 47 I conclude that with nine votes "yes", without any vote "against", with a sufficient entity majority – we have agreed to declare our consent to ratify all the acts proposed from point 17 to finalise with point 30. Ad. 17. - 30. Please, I'm opening up the possibility of a plea. Access the plea. The plea is complete. I agree that, unanimously, with 11 votes "yes", without any vote "against", we have given consent to ratify all proposed international legal acts from point 17 to the conclusion of the 30th agenda. I hereby conclude today's session of the House of Peoples. Thank you very much. The session is closed at 14.19.
