ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2494	Dear colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers, international institutions, media representatives, I warmly welcome you all and open the 19th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 13 delegates present at the session, five of them in the Bosniak order, five in the order of the Croatian and three in the order of the Serb people. Mr. Slobodan Šaraba and Zoran Koprivica justified their absence, since they were prevented from attending today's session. Compared to the draft agenda when we convened the session, today we received a revised agenda that was agreed, where two points of the agenda were downloaded, and one was added due to urgency, the question of ratification of this water supply agreement, it seems to me, in Srbec. Right? I'm asking the delegates if there's any objections to the agenda, that I'm not reading it now, or do you think I should read it? I don't think there's any need, since you've all got it, right? Is anyone answering for a word? He's not answering. Since there are no amendments and additions, I find that the agenda has been adopted. It shall not be voted upon in accordance with Article 60. Rules of Procedure. We move to the first item of the agenda, that's "Ad." 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions The answers to the delegates' questions at today's session were received by Mr Koprivica and Šaraba, but they are not present at today's session, and cannot be made known whether they are satisfied or not. So I ask if there are any new delegate questions? There is. Mr. Rudo Vidović. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2496	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers. I have two short questions for the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency. In fact, it is known that in BiH TV viewing services provide more than 40 cable TV operators with an estimate that they have more than 200 thousand users somewhere. It is also known that all of them were obliged to submit signed statements to the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, i.e. agreements on resolved copyrights for the distribution of TV programmes that can be offered to users via their networks. In that sense, I am asking two questions to the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency. First of all: - Have all BiH cable TV operators delivered such contracts and have contracts defined financial obligations towards television stations whose programmes are distributed? - Does the BiH Regulatory Agency have data on how many users in BiH are watching and paying cable TV through cable operators networks? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2497	Thank you, thank you very much. Mr. Neimarlija also has a delegate question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2498	Mr. Chairman, members of the College, fellow delegates, esteemed guests, I have two short and related issues to the Federation of BiH. According to reports by the European Commission and the results of the survey by the reference international institutions, BiH is the last in the region to protect the natural environment and waste management. According to the 2003 survey, our country, therefore five years ago, was an infamous record recorder in southern Europe by the number of ecological hotspots and manufacturers of various pollutions. According to the 2007 report, limited progress has been made, but it is minimal. In the area of industrial pollution, old industrial contaminants, just at that time, joined the “Prevent” in High. And this modern skin processing plant is probably the most aggressive and certainly least controlled organic waste producer and air pollution in BiH at the moment. The process of processing in "Prevention" is at the level of EU technology standards and waste management is at the level of a pre-industrial relationship. In the first place, until the protests of the local population occurred, organic waste from "Prevent has been drained into a frenzy dump around. After that, the waste started to be treated by three being removed in good time and sometimes forgotten and left to natural degradation. These summer days, a passer-by through the High, or in a closed car, cannot avoid the terrible smell of Prevent's waste and the nausea from its gases that choke the local population. In Italy there are towns with dozens of skin-processing plants such as “Prevent” and whether this should be highlighted without similar gases and smells. So I refer two questions to the Federation of BiH: - How did the "Prevention" in the High get an appropriate ecological work permit? - Why haven't federal and cantonal inspection services done anything for years to prevent and sanction the prevention of violations of European environmental standards and domestic laws on the preservation, protection and improvement of the environmental quality of life? Members of the College and fellow delegates in the House of Peoples, of course, I would like to inform you that in the event of the absence of timely and reasoned responses, I would like to submit an interpretation of the chair. BiH's EU integration assumes the adoption and implementation of European environmental laws. The fact that competences for environmental protection are largely at lower levels of government, does not free us, delegates and MPs in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the obligation to engage in jobs that bring BiH closer to European associations and to oppose practices that distance us from Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2499	Thank you very much. Any more delegate questions? There isn't. I'm finalizing the first item of the agenda. I'm going to the second point. It's "Ad." 2. The adoption of minutes from 17th and 18th sessions First we adopt the record from the 17th session. You've got the record. Is there, uh, is anyone answering for a word? On the grounds of this record, no one is answering for a word. We're approaching the vote. Since we're voting again electronically, please prepare for the vote. You can vote! Final vote. The record was unanimously adopted with 13 votes "yes". 4 You also received a record from the 18th session. Is anyone answering for a word? He's not answering. We can approach the vote. Prepare to vote. You can vote! It was adopted unanimously, with 13 votes "yes". I welcome Mr. Belkić because we have just reached the point I believe Mr. Belkić will help. So I find that the 17th session record was unanimously adopted, with 13 votes "yes". Moving to the third item of the agenda: Ad. 3. A request from the House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2502	The Honorable Presidency, respected members of the House of Peoples, respected guests, media, therefore, I am here as representatives of the proposings, therefore the House of Representatives and, as soon as possible, to remind you, because you were part of this process, that this is the result of the work of the Interresor Working Group in which the people of your home participated. So this is the result of knowledge, i.e. this initiative, these changes are the result of the knowledge that there are many things that should be changed in the existing Law of Conflict of Interest, to make this law more understandable, more enforceable, and to remove some of the things that practice, to say, have been denied. I have to say that we were having a hard time getting to this, the fact that we adopted these changes and additions. In fact, following the results of the Interresor Group's work, there have been some initiatives in the commission phase, the amendment phase, etc., but these initiatives have mostly been rejected and this text that you have is practically what the Interresor Group level agrees with. So this is a possible consensus, or possible degree of change and addition that has been achieved, so to speak, in the Interresor Group. In the House of Representatives, we simply followed that fact. Of course, the Central Election Commission 5 was very actively involved in the work here with its participation in the Interresor Group and followed the whole procedure. Here we have people from the Central Election Commission today. I recommend that you today accept these amendments and supplement them in the same text, so that we have them effective, and we remain, sure that we remain able to think and see whether we should go into the making of a new law, a completely new law, conceptually, conceptually different... set up, because many experts and people who understand better in this area say that it is so perceived that it is very difficult to intervene in, so to say, a situation that would be absolutely acceptable and rational to our opportunities here. Here it is, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2503	I thank Mr. Belkić. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2504	Dear Chairman, honored guests, I'd like to say a few words about the procedure itself. So it's about her. In accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House say that 'when a proposal for a high degree of urgency or a law is put forward in such a simple way that it can be adopted or rejected as a whole, it can be considered in one reading.' I believe that this law is not even simple, and even less that the level of urgency is that we must have it tomorrow, because the Interresor Working Group's position is well known that we should work on a new law and no one argues that this may be a good solution too far, but I really don't see any argument that speaks in favor that we can't look at it in detail, or change action if it seems to us that we should do so. Otherwise, in principle, I really think a little law should be in emergency procedure, and this law at least. So, I suggest this law goes according to the ordinary legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2506	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2507	Go ahead, go ahead. Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2508	Thank you, my dear. The home will decide... how he feels he should decide. However, I feel the need to comment very briefly and try to make arguments that might go the other way. So it's not about the unknown thing, this is the thing that's been in this Parliament for months and people have been completely involved in this in different ways. So, with great effort and quite a long time, this happened. If now the House of Nations decides to go into regular procedure, of course it is your right, and the amendment phase opens, believe it, believe it is going to be intervention and there will be amendments that are reasonable and that will be accepted such, but then we, then come to the fact that we have it in two different texts adopted. It then raises the question of harmonising the relations of the total etc. and I'm afraid that then this whole venture will practically end and I'm really asking,...we had a full consensus when we adopted, so all political parties, all MPs, a complete consensus when we adopted this text. There have been attempts at interventions, amendments, improvements, etc. But, like I said, we gave up because we couldn't get a consensus for all the interventions that were offered. So we just said, let's go back to what we did on the Interresor Group and do it now in this first step. And I'm really asking... Mrs. Majkić to consider this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2509	First Mrs. Čolo, after she called earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2510	I wanted to give some preliminary clarification in front of the Interresor Working Group. In that Interresor Working Group, as you know, there were three representatives of this home. This is Mr. Mladen Ivanić and Mr. Ilija Filipović and I. There are three ministers from the Council of Ministers, Minister of Justice, Minister of Civil Affairs and Minister of Human Rights. There are three members of the House of Representatives and three members of the Election Commission. So the Interressor Working Group has been working on this law for a long time, and this is the only consensus we could come up with. I will only tell you that in the beginning there was an initiative that this law applies to all elected officials throughout BiH. Of course, we couldn't reach the consensus. And this is what could be arranged and what can be fixed by the current law. Representatives of the Central Election Commission have a number of difficulties in applying the current law, as they directly apply the law and impose sanctions. You know that sanctions under this law are rigorous. This is a ban on running for the next four years, these are high fines and you know that according to these laws there is no possibility of making an appeal, which is, of course, contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, because the right to legal remedy is guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights. This law establishes the Institute of Appeals for the decision of the Election Commission, which is not the case now. This law defines the circle of close relatives in a simpler way, and narrows down the circle, and introduces a special category of interested persons, meaning persons that may make a selected official a conflict of interest. I think that it's certainly better to pass this law than to stay, it's better than what we have right now, and of course, in some future procedure, we need to work on some new law. And it was an emergency that we once regulated the issue of conflict of interest in the whole of BiH, which did not lead to results. Here, RS. The National Assembly has since 2002 been... In the law that we now have, which was passed in 2002, there is one transitional provision: that entities will pass their laws within six months. The RS didn't do it until today, the Federation didn't do it until today, only the Brcko District did it. We have a situation where we don't have entity laws, and we have a law that's hard to enforce at the state level. And of course this proposed law will improve the 7 situation we currently have, at least for a reasonable period of time until we pass a comprehensive law or the entities solve it on an entity level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2511	Thank you. First Mr. Rajić, I apologize, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2512	Mr. Chairman, I understand Mrs. Majkić and agree with the reasons she stands here, because the Law on conflict of interest is one of the three disastrous laws in BiH. It is the Law on conflict of interest, the Law on civil servants and the Law on Public Procurement. It's three laws that stop life and I know it, and I would personally vote if I didn't have any other elements in mind, and I would vote against a law like this. However, I believe that the intention is good and that in some quieter atmosphere after local elections we will sit down and deal with this law in a way that Mrs. Čolo says universally, we will say that this is equally binding for everyone, and therefore I do not think this is a persuasion but simply an invitation to try to accept this today as a minimum solution that is needed by the electoral, state election committee, and that we remain obliged to do it again, because it is obvious that this law is not good as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2513	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2514	I got this... this memo that I got, so where's the motion representative's home, and the Proposer to the House of Representatives is not an Interresor Working Group, but a Club of Members of the SDS. Are we talking about the same thing at all? Please, the document I have in front of me is a proposal adopted by the House of Representatives on the basis of the SDS proposal and that is not an Interresor Working Group proposal. Explain to me... whether I'm right or wrong at all. If this is an Interresor Working Group proposal, I agree and vote immediately. But if that's the promoter of a political party, I beg your pardon, I have the right to take a closer look at that. Not that I don't have any right to deny it, that I have to do it now for an unknown reason, I don't know why someone's in a hurry right now; indeed it is, I need, a terrible law, I need it; we've made a decision, this home has made a decision that needs urgent access to the new law. We made that decision. And now suddenly he's coming... in the meantime, a proposal from the House of Representatives on the SDS proposal. So please, if the Interresor Group were standing in the signature, I wouldn't make any more comments. Here, these are my arguments, if anyone can help me... 8
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2515	Mr. Branko, did you want Mr. Zrna? But let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2516	Here, we'll get this straight. It's signed by the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2517	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2518	But here's why you didn't ask me right away, so I'd tell you. So, if you understand me, after the Interresor Group's work has been completed, there have been some attempts, well-intentioned attempts, I suppose, to complete the results of the Interresor Group's work, so to intervene further. But that didn't go away and we went back to the old text. Procedurally, we came before the vote and we had to vote. And the text of the Interresor Group with the amendment that has passed..., when you are already pulling me by the language, on the Constitutional Legal Commission, which was installed, most of the votes passed, without support from the RS MPs did not receive an entity majority. In order not to put all this back in the process, we agreed that one of the MPs with the text of the Interresor Group should appear as a promoter. The Interresor Group cannot appear. So, the House of Representatives behind this stands, and the MPs of the SNSD and all MPs of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2519	So, the proposal is the Interresor Group, but because of the way the House of Representatives was led, someone was the promoter to bring back, revive the law, and the text is no different from the text that was agreed, which I can say for myself because I was a member of that group. I would just like to add, if I wasn't going out for a pay phone, I personally think that the work of the Interresor Working Group was very positive, very correct, that the three slightly difficult laws were quite correctly agreed within this Interresor Working Group. Thank you very much. Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2520	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I won't... I won't bother much, it's mostly said. Come on, and my one dilemma was this procedural nature. However, I really want to welcome any shift that is at the same time away from the disastrous Law on conflict of interest. And here I really want to talk about changes and additions, not the law, because in this law what we have received new and what we have gained quality new are its changes and additions. Although I agree with my colleague Dušanka, we need a new law, we have already applied, we have already said that there must be a new law to be done, but as an interphase, as a solution to those so-called. burning issues or burning illogicalities and, even a little worse qualifications, the burning nonsense of the Law of Conflict of Interest, these amendments and additions, even if they eliminate these nonsense. And that's why I think we really need 9 to support this bill and, at the same time, support the work of the Interresor Group, so we're going to give them the task of making a whole new law after this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2521	Thank you very much. Mr Filipović asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2522	Thank you very much for your word. I welcome all present. So, very briefly. I would only ask Mrs Dušanka Majkić to withdraw her words against the hasty procedure and to allow us to accept the procedure as he had the House of Representatives. I guarantee, therefore, as a participant of the debate over this draft, that he is authentic to what the Interresor Group has managed to agree as a consensus, although I have a lot of doubts – I spoke on the subject – about the Law of Conflict of Interest and expressed my views on the fact that it is a disaster of the law, someone has already used that word, and I am absolutely at the point that we have to work a whole new law. This law that we are now trying to fix, and these repairs that are now ahead of us, as changes and additions, means one big step towards improvement, which means this legislative act imposed by the High Representative. We did not, it did not come from our BiH workshop, but were imposed on us the most rigid solutions that could have been imposed at that time, probably by the judgment of the relations of rhetoric within BiH, at the moment the High Representative estimated it must be so rigid towards elected officials in BiH. The agreement has been reached, we can today, accepting the requirement to do so in a hurry procedure, accepting these changes and supplementing the conclusion that an internal Interresor group doing its job, and doing its work intensively – has two, three sessions each... in the month, is doing very seriously its job – to approach very urgently, immediately, after local elections, prepare and create a brand-new 'The Law of Conflict of Interest'. I am also an advocate of a brand-new, new solution, but I would ask you not to interfere with the procedure or the passage of these amendments or the additions proposed by the Interresor Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2523	I remind you that during the review, since we have done three laws, one of the laws has already concluded that the Interresor Working Group continues to work, to prepare this law new on conflict of interest, that the Interresor Working Group is working and that the debate on the Immunity Act is now on the agenda, in the end. So the Interresor group is working and I don't think there's any need to give this conclusion again when we've already discussed it from one of these: both Houses have reached the same conclusion. 10 Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2524	Since I didn't know there was an Interresor Working Group behind the law, none, no matter what the Proposer is a House of Representatives, I have no reason not to support this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2525	Okay. Any other interested in the debate? If not, we approach the vote. First, we are voting on whether the proposal for a law will be considered in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Prepare to vote. You can vote! All 13 delegates have been declared ‘yes’. Now we're voting on this law. I guess in the previous debate, we've already exhausted what needs to be done, that there are no interested, so get ready to vote. We can vote! Thank you very much. The law received unanimous support. Moving to point four, that's ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. The House of Representatives passed this law in the proposed text. You've received a report from the committee in charge. The Commission adopted this law in the proposed text. There was no amendment to the bill. Is anyone answering for a word? Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Is anyone answering for a word? Nobody's answering. We're approaching the vote. Prepare to vote. You can vote! I find that "for" this law voted 12, no one "against", no one "abstained", because Mr. Tihić only went out briefly. The law received the required majority and was adopted in the same text as at the House of Representatives. 11 We move to point five: Ad. 5. Proposal for a framework law on secondary vocational education and training in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2531	I would like to say something: to respect the engagement of the Interresor Working Group that worked on the draft of this law, and I believe that it analysed all the elements, or all the proposals, primarily that came to the Interresor Working Group. There are some solutions that may not be solved in the best way, so some members that we should certainly intervene on, but I think that when it comes to the principles of the law that we can support, and that in the amendment phase we can change those elements that we think are not well set up. I think most colleagues agree. So I support the principles of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2532	Thank you. Is there more? Mr. Rančić. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2533	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, therefore, are considering the law in the first phase and, of course, me and my colleagues will support this law. What I want to draw attention to is that in the amendment phase, I will ask, with respect to the work of my colleagues and colleagues who have worked on this law, among other things, to pay attention to Article 10, of course along with the Electoral Commission, and that position (5) that speaks, here I will quote it, talking about the distribution of funds related to coalitions and parties. The position (5) of this member reads: 'Members... of the coalition of political parties participate in the allocation of funds under the terms of the article (4) of the Agreement on the distribution of money deposited in the Central Election Commission of BiH and, if no agreement exists, the funds shall be allocated between members of the coalition of political parties according to the number of mandates received'. So this agreement is being introduced as a way, an agreement between these coalition partners for the distribution of funds. We have had these 2006 elections and how budgets of different levels will be shared if this agreement is now introduced by this law. So, what about the positions, the state of affairs regarding the 2006 elections? And secondly, this last part of the sentence that says that if there is no agreement,... will go according to the number of mandates received between coalition political parties, parties. Therefore, the electoral solution in this law is that the mandate belongs to a selected individual official, not to a political or coalition party, so it cannot be taken as a rule in the distribution of these funds. It could be said that, on the basis of this agreement or of any agreement or agreement previously reached between coalition partners, and not handed over to the CEC, could be allocated to these funds or, even if the agreement... is not made up or cannot be subsequently made up, then on some, possibly, even distribution, the same percentage to all members of the coalition partners. That's it. Therefore, to take care of this because, if it remains this way, there may be problems when it is implemented, after the law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2534	Thank you very much. Now I'd give myself my word, just for a second. First of all, I think this law is also one of those laws that are very important because more order is being introduced here. But I agree, just now, with Mr. Rančić, that one of the key problems that arises in this law stems from the Law of Elections. And I really think that we have made an unnecessary complication in this Law of Elections when each term is personally assigned. The compensation mandate, here's an example of working, at the House of Representatives and the compensation mandate... according to the electoral units in entities has nothing to do with the individual, it is exclusively party, because it is the result of the party's votes. But it was designed for us to make that mandate more compensatory and then to be personal, so that the man who came thanks to the votes of the party could change tomorrow, and then also affect the funding. 14 I really don’t think that’s correct, but here’s another result of the pressure from international institutions to change the political structure by making individuals change the party to one side or the other. I understand that at the time it made sense, but I don't think it makes any more sense. These are all things that we, in one normal procedure, should bring and then there wouldn't be any of these problems. In my opinion, what Mr. Rančić was talking about, if there is no agreement, and apparently there was no agreement in 2006 and you cannot conduct retroactively, then it must be determined according to the number of mandates and mandates at the beginning become permanent. Afterwards, the MP can do whatever he wants and go from one party to another, but the funding schedule should remain permanent after... the first verification, the first distribution of money, when the coalition took place. Here, that's my opinion, but I think there's going to be a little more opportunities in this amendment phase, if necessary. Here you go. Are there any more interested? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We approach the statement... on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties in First Reading. Prepare to vote. You can vote! 13 delegates voted. Unanimously, this law was passed in the first reading. Moving to point nine, that's ad. Nine. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on bottled drinking waters of BiH (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You have received the bill of law and the opinion of the committee responsible for accepting the principles of the proposed law. The House of Representatives passed this law in its first reading. Who's answering for a word? No Niko's answering for a word. I'm closing the debate. Prepare for a plea. You can vote! Thank you very much. 13 delegates were declared, and they unanimously supported this law. I propose one agreement of ours, and if it is interested in the amendment of this phase – given that they are going on vacations – and it is taking a short while, I suggest that we have one general conclusion that for all of these laws, which are in the first reading, the amendment phase can last until 1 September. 15 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2542	Maybe you should have this commission before.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2543	If, as Mrs. Majkić said, this commission is at stake, then we will. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2544	: We respect each other and I thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2545	It could've been the Commission, but okay, here. I'm kidding. Here you go, Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2546	:Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished members of the College, distinguished colleagues, our Constitutional Justice Commission adopted, i.e. the report on the work of the Central Election Commission for 2007 but how is it that our decision is not clear enough, if I can say so, I only want to clarify that the intensity of our commission was to agree with what colleagues in the House of Representatives have already done, and that means that the proposal for measures and conclusions, which are within the Report, become... A proposal for the conclusion of our commission. If that's not how it was understood through this opinion, here's how I explained it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2547	So the proposal for a conclusion highlights the conclusions that... Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2548	: The conclusion of the measures... within this report becomes an integral part of our commission. It may not have been accurate, but it is in agreement and what colleagues in the House of Representatives have done.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2549	Okay. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2550	So I feel the need to say a few words about a good report and about a good institution. It's rare for us to say that maybe, besides the CEC, I'm sorry, except for the Central Bank, this is another institution that we can say that what should be a role model is how other institutions should behave. What about the report? Methodologically, the report has been done so that we can simply conclude what was done in the previous period, where the problems in the work of this institution and what it suggests should be done in the next period. By quality, the report is relevant, relevant, comprehensive and professional and we know exactly what the conditions of business were in the period 1.1. to 31.12.2007. This conclusion is not enough just to read this report. I made contact with the City Election Commission from Banja Luka who told me about the work of this institution. I was told about this good communication, the professional relationship between professional people who work here and a very good joint solution to the problems that arise during or outside the election process. Also, it wasn't enough for me either, so I looked at the results of the audit reports for the year of this institution, and I saw here that it was an institution that received a positive report, that it was an institution that respected all the recommendations of the audit and that it had made a budget of 92%, that it had almost received the planned number of workers within what was projected. 18 So, from the Parliamentary Assembly, the institution also asks her to help solve a few things. It is, primarily, to get rid of this legitimate part that depends on us. Here, here we are in today's session showing that we are going to finish this job. But it also stresses that for the quality functioning of this institution, in the years to come, in addition to the knowledge and experience that this institution lacks, two preconditions still need to be met. The first is to provide an adequate business space for the institution's permanent accommodation and the second is to implement a single electoral information system for BiH in order to provide daily up-to-date communications and information support to the BiH election process. Accordingly, I propose: 1st to adopt the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission to the People's House, which adopts a practical report on the work of the Central Election Commission; 2nd, that this institution be publicly praised for its work, and I also propose one conclusion which would be of this text: - The House of Peoples asks the Council of Ministers of BiH to support the project of a single electoral information system of BiH, and to provide the funds of the reserve with the necessary financial resources for its implementation. Also, the House of People asks the Council of Ministers to find an appropriate permanent solution to the accommodation of the CEC, creating the necessary preconditions for the enforcement of its law-set competences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2551	Thank you very much. Are there any more interested? There isn't. I am concluding the debate and putting first the Commission's report to the vote, and then we will talk about these conclusions; I will try to define something... although, while adopting this report, we are also adopting conclusions, but since there is also Mrs. Majkić's proposal, we will see. But let's get ready first for the report vote. You can vote! Vote 13, unanimously adopted report. We now have this conclusion of the Commission which has proposed that... 'The people's home obliges all institutions to realize the conclusions contained in the report.' Shall we?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2552	It's just a compliment...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2553	It was practically adopted by the adoption of the Report. Okay, so I suggest you don't then. I think it's practically one piece of cover, Mrs. Majkić, your conclusion except for this part of the commitment to the Council, but it also says here. 19________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] For? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2556	... I wouldn't insist on this if I were to be sure that someone would respect the conclusions that come from here. Given the experience I have, especially when the findings of such a general type..., so very bad experience I have with it, I think that... these two things are necessary for further successful work of the Central Election Commission and I think those two conclusions we... specify explicitly. And for other things that are minor problems, which the Election Commission itself can solve, here, let the President of the Central Election Commission say himself. I think these two conclusions, for them we can insist, we can seek the position of the Council of Ministers why it is not respected. So we have influence, control, if the explicit conclusions are stated! If that's just general, in the context of the full report, there's nothing of it. That's what I think. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2557	If I can?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2558	Here you go, let's do it. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2559	:... A report from our commission, I do not mind that we also plead on the proposal of the distinguished representative Majkić, but is it not clear enough when it is said that the competent authorities are obliged to take all activities out of their jurisdiction to implement the recommendations of the Central Election Commission. So we adopted those conclusions. Then this would be a double, in my opinion. And these conclusions cover what a colleague is saying. We also say that they are obliged to take all the activities, and we can make a statement. Here, I'm just explaining.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2560	20 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2561	Come on, Mr. President. Mr. Mikić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2562	Thank you, Chairman. I must, before I give my opinion, thank Mrs. Majkić for these words. From my heart, I thank you both on my behalf and on behalf of my colleagues and the entire institution. This proposal, proposed by Ms. Majkić, which the President of the Constitutional Legal Committee of your home somehow sublimated in another way, is actually the same, because the same conclusion that Mrs. Majkić divided into two levels, at two points, was adopted at the House of Representatives. Therefore, it would be good if, here, if the adoption of what he has proposed in this way by a representative of the Constitutional Commission meant the same thing, and these are actually the conclusions drawn from the recommendations of ours that you adopted along with the Report.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2563	So, I suggest this: to adopt a conclusion which, here, lies somewhere in combination between what the Commission said and what Mrs. Majkić said; therefore, the House of Nations suggests the conclusion: - Ask the competent institutions to implement the recommendations contained in the Report and report to the House. Is he all right? Prepare to vote. You can vote! Vote 13. All 13 “for. ” I find that the report was adopted earlier, and this is, and this conclusion has been adopted by the House of Peoples. Moving to point 13. Ad. 13. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the audit carried out in 2006 by the following institutions: (a) BiH Ministry of Defence, (b) Ministry of Finance and Treasury There's been a report. You have received a report from the committee responsible as well as information with the correction of the report on the work,... reports from the Office for Audit. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Please. Mrs. Majkić, is it? 21
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2565	Just for a little while. The Finance and Budget Commission later found that reports, in the 2006 report, made a mistake in the absence of secretaries... two institutions. It is the Ministry of Finance and Treasury and the Ministry of Defence for which the Finance and Budget Commission has taken a position. But during the processing, because of the secretary's illness, that mistake happened. So, we're on the adopted reports just supplementing these two points and thus being... it was the position and the Commission. So, I don't have anything special. So the reports have been processed and completed.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2566	Thank you. Are there any more interested? Mr. Izbrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2567	... intervened on this report. The BiH institutions' 2006 audit office, on the other hand, to specify the financing commission's conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2568	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2569	Well, wait, but there's something in here that we've canceled. So, in conclusion, you were running the session, there were four. The first conclusion was rejected and said that the Commission should consider it and inform the House. The Commission has sat down and rejected that conclusion, and it is now emerging here again.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2570	What is it, what paper do you mean?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2571	The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges the Council of Ministers of BiH to immediately consider the need and adoption of a new "BiH Public Procurement Act". We were talking about amending this law, not about it. Now it's going through here again.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2572	Dušanka, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2573	... that you have this record in front of you that only speaks – which should be completed with two institutions. So we're not discussing this record that the gentleman is talking about. That's the record. We later made a change, but this record was made. We're not talking about a session of the Commission,... The Commission's report of 30.11.2007, but we are merely saying that in this minutes under paragraphs 26 and 27, it is necessary to supplement these two institutions, for God's sakes, Mr Ibrahimpašić, you were at the Commission's session, as you do not understand. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2574	So, please, let's be clear, let's be clear. You received a report from the Commission, which the Commission considered, all the materials, and made such conclusions. We later said to check that conclusion. The conclusion was verified – it did not enter and it was not the subject, so it did not enter into the definitely adopted conclusions when you, as the Commission, said you did not adopt it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2575	... We never adopted him. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2576	Even today, we're not just discussing him, you have an old report that was who he was. But the wrong service didn't enter two documents, and now we're just discussing those two documents. Those conclusions are not valid, but that was the Commission's record, you didn't sit down afterwards, you understand, that's why. Am I right? I did. Don't go any further, so there's no conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2577	I don't mind, but that conclusion by the Commission was never a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2578	... You're talking about different things. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2579	That's what it's all about, he's been compromised, he's never been the conclusion, and now he's showing up here, I mean, I don't care. But we've had so much work to do with this, that...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2580	So we won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2581	... Public procurement law. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2582	We're not going to make a statement about this law, and we're not going to make that conclusion. And you from the Commission sit well, and make fun of one another, and at last do not go back to the House of the Peoples on that conclusion of yours. We said, "What do you do?" That's it! Because you agreed not to, there isn't. So let's talk about these two laws, these two reports, that's the point. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2583	I don't think there's really anything controversial, but if the Commission had made a correction to this report, it could have made a correction to that part if there really wasn't a consensus, and most of the votes hadn't adopted it, they could have made that correction. I mean, it's not a questionable 23 now, we can't retroactively change their report, but they could have done it with this correction if some members of the Commission objected and claimed it wasn't so agreed on by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2584	Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2585	...things you don't understand. So in this session, if we are already talking about this report that is not the subject of today's agenda, we later had a session of the Commission and corrected that point, we threw out. But it's another session of 15th, 17th, not this one, and it's not the subject of this. This is the subject of only two reports. I can't be, Mr Filipović, you were when we talked about these two reports, you were at that session. And I thought, here you are, and you thought it was absolutely clear. A man opens a story about a record that is not the subject of any debate today. He, a man, is not aware that this, this story of the record, is not a session for this House session, for God's sake. So let's know what we're doing, let's get into the essence, not hasty, superficial thoughts.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2586	Please, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2587	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, this is about one misunderstanding. As the MPs Ibrahimpašić and Mrs Čolo said, we had a debate over that conclusion. We have returned to the Committee, point one has not entered into the conclusions, the House of Peoples has declared that and there is an archive about it, there is no need to talk about it. However, this material here, in its original form as it appeared before our revision, is due to these interventions and corrections concerning these two ministries, and it should be understood that way, and not... If there is any interpretation that this is somehow becoming an integral part, we have a stenogram of the assembly session, a session of the House where it's decided as I say. Let's get over this. It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2588	They won't say anything about it at all. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2589	I really can't accept that we don't understand essential things. We have an observation here, at the House at the time, of the people who are members of the Finance and Budget Commission, who objected to this report and said that this was not how it was concluded. And then, here we are reportedly hearing, the Commission sat down later and corrected its report. So this corrected report is this report, which is metricated now and in which there is no - urgently amend the Public Procurement Act or refer this procedure to the Council of Ministers. So I don't know how 24 of the time this report was originally metricated. If they were correcting it, there should have been a corrected report here. I really don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2590	If I understand correctly?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2591	It turns out to be the same thing as...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2592	Only because the Commission had discussed these two audit reports for the first time in that session, not later. And only in addition that she debated, and we miss her by mistake, which is why she was made. Here, I suggest we have a fundamental debate on what these reports say, and the conclusion will be: The Commission's report is adopted without that part, if it's up to that level, and we're done. Well, here, I'm done, and if anyone wants to talk about the point!?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2593	... Chairman, please. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2594	Yes, Dušanka.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2595	The correction of this article was made by correction, not by a new report. It's not a new report that's been made, it's only that point being corrected, Mrs. Čolo. Well, I mean, I don't know what it is. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2596	Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2597	...the report is an official document just like the law. When you change it, that change becomes an integral part of that document, so don't teach me the legal alphabet. This report wasn't metricated, it was supposed to be thrown out if you delivered it here today. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2598	I beg you, I, or I don't understand, and I'm really pretending, I'm not pretending I don't understand, I really don't understand. We had, I realized this, the Commission's report as it was... along with the other documents, informed, we know that that conclusion wasn't adopted on the House of Peoples because 25 had been corrected and it doesn't exist. And by circumstances and by mistake, it happened that in the papers when we discussed all this, it wasn't these two ministries. And yet, to prove that they were, that report came when they were. And, here, I'm ready to say at this session: this report is being adopted without point 4 because it's been revised and the point is (we're done). Let's get to the point, if at all. Here, we're talking about these two auditors now. Is he interested?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2599	...we're making it unnecessary. We didn't do the report, this is what Mrs. Čolo insists on. We have spoken to the presidents that this point one is not the result of our will on the Commissioner. And we at the House of Peoples have reached the conclusion that point one has been thrown out. But now, in this situation, it continues, the dispute is being set, whether this is a hoax to bring this text of the original report. He was placed here, by my understanding, because at that session, that date, these two ministries were discussed which were dropped, and that is how it should be understood. And if we think that... we have some problems, I suggest that for the next session of the House of Peoples a stenogram be delivered at the adoption of this point, so let's be clear about how we adopted, so that this is no longer a dispute. It is, and you see, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2600	Here you go, Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2601	... I completely agree with that formulation that you made. I'll vote for the reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2602	Well, no, my proposal for a conclusion will be: The Commission's report is being adopted. The home has been informed that the Commission has concluded that point 1 is not an integral part; therefore, point 1 is not even an integral part. And that, that was my suggestion from the beginning. Come on, is there any need for further discussion about the report itself? If not, then prepare to vote. You can vote! I find that 13 delegates have joined and the reports mentioned have been adopted. Are we going to do this now; this conclusion says: Since the House of Nations has been informed that the Commission has implemented the correction, that means that point 1 in the Commission's Report is no longer; well, that is, the House of Peoples has been informed by the Commission that the Commission has implemented the correction and has excluded that conclusion from its report. Is that it? Well, that's it, there's no such thing as part of this report. Well, I suggest that this just as a finding be, as information, which means there's no need to vote. You don't even know how to define. Thank you. Let's move on, point 14. 26 Ad. 14. Annual Information and Security Policy Platform – submiter: BiH Presidency You've reached the Joint Commission's report. The House of Representatives adopted the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2604	...here that the chairman of the Commission said, but that here is Mr. Božo Rajić in charge of reporting to the House of Peoples, but I really must say that, to express my dissatisfaction with such a document as we have received. So, the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform is, as it stands here, directing the document that the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and the Parliamentary Assembly directs the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency. It is clear that this is not a strategy and that it cannot contain all the security elements, but I wonder: couldn't this platform have been more elaborate and more content and could it just direct the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency wasn't regulated by law? Now, this document looks like that: wherever you go, you're gonna come around and you're gonna finish something. Written on three and a half pages of a large font, so on the 14th, we're probably just writing titles with that letter size. This, it contains an introduction – the whole page of these capital letters; priorities of action – one and a half pages; means, Annual Platform one and a half pages and this agency in the security system – half a page. It is the important document called the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform of BiH. From this superficial and extremely stretching document it is clear only one thing: that we will have introduced new and modern standards and methodologies, which will begin... that so much-expected listening process, so we will not know where it begins and ends. And the transformation of this institution, so OSA, will be carried out as from security intelligence to intelligence and security agencies as well as that so far security has not been in the jurisdiction of the police, and this intelligence section in OSA's jurisdiction. I don't really understand how he could first, from where he could bring a document like this, that was only designed to fill the form. So there's no substance here, and I don't understand how he could have gone through the procedure in the presidency. Couldn't the presidency have taken care of it and been a little more seriously insisting on this kind of document being done. I'm ashamed of where this document came from to Parliament. My proposal is that this unworthy and speedy written document is not adopted and that the Council of Ministers is obliged to deliver, within 30 days, a whole new document entitled 'The Annual Information and Security Policy Platform'. Thank you. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2605	It's getting interesting. ... Mr. Rančić. Mr. Rančić, then Mr. Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2606	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform is a document stemming from the Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH, which is Article 7(1) indent 5 of this law. So this is the necessary document and its adoption is prescribed by law. Me and a few of my colleagues are members of the Intelligence and Security Agency's Committee, and we regretted last year, and here are these, that our competent institutions, and there is the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, with a special emphasis on the Council of Ministers chair who, by law, has a proper role to play in the work and competences of this Intelligence and Security Agency, are unfortunately not in this year or in the past, and as far as I know, this document has never been drawn up before. And he's very important because it's a strategic document based on work, the annual work of the Intelligence and Security Agency. As a member of this committee, I initiated this document last year. Unfortunately, that's not what we did. By working on this commission we have managed to ensure that in July we see the light of day and here in our home a document called the Annual Platform and every story that we do not accept this platform is going for us to actually this half year, which is that the Intelligence and Security Agency does not have its annual platform, and that it is placed in a position to work only on the basis of the law. And I personally had objections to the competent commission regarding the contents of this platform. It is, in my opinion, quite general, inaccurate, there are errors there and we are, but are we in a position that, if we were to possibly act as amendments in order to extend the time period of adoption of this document and then, given the occurrence of the annual holidays, we would not have this very important document for the month of Ramadan and all of it, in fact, been brought in that we do not have this very important document. With all this in mind, given that this, here, is the beginning in this area, I would ask all my colleagues and colleagues to support this document not only because it is excellent, which it contains there all precisely etc. etc. but as opening and pushing once for BiH institutions to, among other things, start bringing this document, which will be done by our Intelligence Security Agency. With the adoption today, I would like to ask my colleagues and colleagues, this document, and I would like to propose and support the conclusion: 'If the Presidency, Council of Ministers, Intelligence and Security Agency, our competent body parliamentaryly, which has the authority to oversee the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency, immediately launch activities on the development of an annual work platform of the Intelligence and Security Agency for 2009. year.' It makes sense, and this is the time when we have to access the design, to adopt the 2009 platform at the end of 2008, it just makes sense, everything else will lead to us not having an annual Information and Security Agency platform again. Thank you very much. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2607	Mr. Ivo Miro Jović, then Mr. Neimarlija, then after Mr. Rajić, there will be Branko Zrno. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2608	: With all this finding that this document is extremely important and that it is too modest in its boredom and without any particular ambition to change things in this area, and especially not advanced, I cannot agree with the one here under number 6 when it is said that there will be... threats to collect data on the classical forms of organised crime, so it says trade in white slaves. This means that in BiH we can automatically with black slaves yes; otherwise the whole document is overcrowded with one breath or spirit of the past. And indeed, it's probably about a man who worked well in the '70s in intelligence and security services. Or, look here without a hint: the appearances of money laundering. By hand or by machine? I don't know how to wash it, because there's no quote and it should, if it's some illustration of money traffic. Economists know better than that. But what made me especially talk is this 7th point whole. So he says he's going to press, influence and create political and economic, as if we still have a cold war. We've got Eastern and Western countries, and there's still a Central Committee signature missing here, and people being intimidated to work here. The country that has a gifted Constitution of the High Representative has sides, that is, whether it has an army from abroad and then says it will influence, impact negatively on politics, when in public, on our public radios and televisions, the ambassador of a country says, "I am financing the SDP." So here we will now... bring the platform to fight it. But the man publicly says, 'We are financing SDP in BiH for now.' It's political. When it comes to the economy, how here, or the economy, then, if we have what bilateral, regional, etc. whether, the country belongs... to the signed contracts, so here are the stories of CEFTA and others – how it is possible to prevent influence from outside on the economy when we can't wait for people to invest us here. Or I don't understand it. Being a country with pride and desire, intensity and all structures of politics, to be a country in a Partnership for Peace, then says to prevent the impact on the defence system. How do we become under the hat of such a powerful world organization, then these others? I'm, I don't know, thinking, I really don't know what this whole point 7 is about? Likely, in that case, it would become even shorter or unusable.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2609	Thank you very much. Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2610	The chairman, fellow delegates, guests, I am surprised by the fact that no report from the Commission has been delivered to this platform, as the Commission has had very precise conclusions to meet the House. Well, here I am, for the first time, really a little bit out of bounds to find out that that report wasn't sent. 29 The account included, and I will try to remember the conclusions, and if I miss one, don’t mind me, my colleague Rančić said in part. So, the Commission has carefully considered whether this platform proposal discussed its shortcomings. To these examples Mr. Jović added a number of others, let's say, I could now say that there is room, for example, already in point 5. ... which testifies that someone who composed or first text offered to be still in this language 30 years ago; you have, for example, classical bureaucracy, we need bureaucracy, here is classical bureaucracy; then you have replacements, I don't know, obligations that are legally defined OSAs and inspections, for example, work on black. Well, I mean, they won't. But I could further cite other examples in the sense that classical crime and crime are being monitored, and some modern, new, post-modern, not to be followed, not to be respected. But above all, it was found that this is the first platform, the first proposal of an act needed and which came after 2002. So, for the first time, we have something that we need and despite all these shortcomings, so we were welcomed by the fact that for the first time we have received a final platform proposal for this. Number one. Under number 2, these inaccuracies and linguistic inadequacies were said to stand, but the content of this platform was created, among other things, and on the insight into a similar platform in Croatia. So the composers had in mind here's the first neighborhood and on that basis they were, so we're told, whether or not they were others, but I remember exactly that the platform was mentioned, that it was downloaded from the internet, here, and it was... pointed to the fact, please,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2611	A little attention, boys, a little attention!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2612	...please. So, the shortcomings are there, but the fact is that we have this act for the first time, and the Commission has fully agreed after a long really long discussion to accept this text with the conclusion that it is immediately beginning to prepare the following in terms of, first of all, grooming existing material, because this is a platform that does not require a calendar change. We won't have any fundamentally new texts next year, a whole new content. It's about taking this existing one as the initial text to answer one of the obligations that we normally have. And therefore, here, this report has arrived, I apologize. We have this report. Then it was me, I didn't get the total reports, I didn't see him. I'm asking you to name here... Joint committees and these reasons that are in the report, which I have tried a little bit quickly to reproduce, to accept this report and to accept, of course, the need for future platforms to work with here a little more attention, more sensitivity, with more specificity.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2613	Thank you, Mr. Neimarlija. The word has Mr. Rajić. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2614	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, it's hard... to wrestling at this point and not say anything about this document or call the document. We who are members of this committee for the supervision of the legality of the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Service, in fact of one intelligence and security service, are faced with one rather discouraging finding that neither the Council of Ministers nor the BiH Presidency pays much attention to this area. Practically, information collected by the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency should be provided to them, and should be used to carry out their duties under the Constitution. The experience so far shows that neither the Council of Ministers, or the President of the Council of Ministers, chaired or the three-member Presidency, has shown a minimum interest in relations in this area, for its editing or in particular for its promotion. My colleagues were talking about this material. Actually, I don't think it belongs to the category of decent behavior to send a document that no one has even initialled. He has an accompanying act but no document, he can be completed tomorrow, changed, completed in any way. Secondly, his content in terms of commitment has been proceeded, which he should do, attention to which he will direct the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency. There was talk of the spirit of this material, which, unfortunately, has too much smell of the time we wanted to forget, and I think we've forgotten it. The fact that it was taken down as a model from the Republic of Croatia does not surprise me, because I know who the President of Croatia's Office is writing such materials, I know them, all together, according to it, but I think that the progress has been made so much, because for the first time the Presidency is offering at least an insight, on the information one of these documents. How pointless it is to adopt this document at the end of the seventh month is a story for myself, but I, despite all this because of the future,... important functions in society, call on us to accept this document, and to make it clear to the Presidency and the Council of Ministers that this way of their relationship with this service so far and the relationship that shows in this way is not acceptable for the Parliamentary Assembly, or for this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2615	Thank you very much. Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2616	I don't know what else to say, Mr. Chairman. First of all, by respecting my colleagues from this committee for this security-intelligence segment, I will support this so-called. A platform, an intelligence-security platform, although I must conclude that this is about an absolute diletantism with, as far as this platform is concerned, I would like to say that it is a civil matter without professional diletinism. Because if it's about professional diletantism, then it's not good. Then not only is this platform not working, but then something really rotted in the state of D. 31 Second, what is truly missing and missing, and he gave the impression of fellow Rajić, this platform is the following. The intelligence and security sector is part of BiH's overall security system. So OSA is not outside or especially, I repeat, especially above that system. She, if it's not part of it, then what Božo said will happen to us. Not only the smell of something that was in itself and state and above the state, but indeed what would turn into both state and state. According to this, if it is a platform, it must be part of the security system, both professionally and by task and by control. If it isn't, then I really don't know what it is. So he has to put himself in part of this country's security strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2617	Thank you. Before the plea, does your proposal remain unacceptable?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2618	So I didn't speak for myself. I speak for the club and the Serbian delegates' club will not support this platform.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2619	That means we need to approach the vote. No more interested in the debate. There isn't. Thank you. Come in. We can approach the vote. You can vote! Therefore, this platform has received 10 "for", "against", two, one "restricted". The entity majority isn't there. The annual platform has not been adopted. I'm supposed to be in college now. We can't agree, let's go to that second vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2620	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2621	Well, there isn't, there's nothing here... because there's not one third, is there?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2622	There's a third.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2623	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So there's no vote. 32 [[Common discussion]] Nothing, he says here: if most votes do not include one third and do not include, there is no vote, the chairman and his deputies will meet as the Commission and try to ensure consent. There's no consent. If that doesn't work, decisions are made by majority vote. Those present vote on the condition that the votes "against" shall not contain two-thirds or more delegates elected from each entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2625	It's got to go round two, it's got to be voted in the second round. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2626	The club president's looking for a break. Right, is it a break? A five-minute break. [[PAUZA]] Let us continue, although in the first version of the agreement, we as the Commission have not reached an agreement. Since we have a three-day deadline, I've managed in this little break to arrange for us and the Commission... The College as a commission agreed and the Annual Platform will be adopted, with the College proposing one conclusion to the House which would go along with this, which is: "The People's House is expressing dissatisfaction with the quality of this platform and asking... for the authority participating in the adoption of this document to prepare in time for 'The 2009 Information and Security Policy Platform' and to respect the comments raised in the debate on the People's House." If there is no need, I suggest – there is no need to talk more – I only put this conclusion to the vote. Prepare to vote. Who is “for”, or you can plead; this is who is “for” when it is paper. Thank you very much. I find this conclusion unanimously adopted, and thus this platform. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's Ad. 15. Proposal for a list of candidates for the appointment of Ombudsman in the BiH Ombudsman Institution
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2629	I just want to warn that this, therefore, is the second time that we have chosen an Ombudsman, that all procedures relating to this election have been respected, that the transparency of the work of the Commission that has done the proposal, so the lists of candidates for the appointment of the Ombudsman have been made very transparent, that it has included a number of NGOs and international organisations, so I would ask that all three clubs agree their views, so that we do not have a choice that will have to be declared invalid, because if we do not choose in the same way as the House of Representatives did, then we are in a position that... the competition has to be re-pronounced. So mine, as a member of the Commission, I want to say it, and as we're going to vote, that's the thing at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2630	Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2631	Mr. Chairman, I have one question for the representatives of this committee who have been doing this job and for you as chairman of this House. Why..., is this a technical mistake or intention in all of us here, we see us four or five here together, in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Ad hoc commission to elect an Ombudsman there is no text from Article 17 to Article 19 of that Rules of Procedure, which seems to me to regulate the question of the score of candidates who have applied for the contest? And before we get that text, I don't think we have any real assumptions that we can decide.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2632	From 17th to 19th? I do. It's in my file. I do. Who doesn't have those pages please?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2633	There's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2634	I do.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2635	There are biographies of Lagumdžija. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2636	No, no, no, here it is said, if I understand you correctly, Mr. Rajić, that you do not have the pages of the Rules of Procedure in which the criteria are laid down.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2637	From page two to page six, we don't have anything else.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2638	From?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2639	From page two to six, it's empty.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2640	But I have it, I mean from the second to the sixth of that document, it's 58th, 59th.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2641	Rules of Procedure on the work of the Ad hoc commission?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2642	I've got everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2643	We don't, here's Rudo gone, I don't, Jović doesn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2644	Who doesn't? Let's see which one of the delegates doesn't have? Just to see which of the delegates aren't here? You don't, you don't, you don't, Mr. Jović? IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2645	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2646	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2647	In my, please, in my document it's a total of page 56, I speak for you now what the Cyrillic was done, it's page 56, it's Rules of Procedure. I have a whole Rules of Procedure. You have a whole, the chairman has a whole, you two whole, whole, whole, whole, except... from the order of the Croatian people has a problem. Three delegates don't have a whole Rules of Procedure, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2648	We don't decide... A businessman rather than this commission has been working on the Rules of Procedure. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2649	Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2650	We have unnecessarily and set up a Rules of Procedure here, because this is the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Ad hoc Commission. So it's not about the work of the House, it's about the Rules of Procedure of the Ad hoc Commission. And I don't think it's necessary, I don't know why it's even put in like... not a contribution to this. So I really don't know why, you have biographies of people we're about, so we really don't have why, I don't see a reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2651	Replica, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2652	I mean, it's not right that you're teaching me what's important, what's irrelevant in this case. The Committee, the Ad hoc selection committee of the Ombudsman, provided all the material, including its Rules of Procedure, to show us in the interest of the public, which you so boast and transparency, how the score came. I have the impression that several of us MPs have hidden elements based on which the score was made and it has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I have the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, but I want to have before me, before I say so, and the contents of this Rules of Procedure that set out the way in which the candidates applied for this contest were scored.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2653	Your Honor, the College has made a decision 15 minutes off to take delegates who do not have a missing page to deliver this. 15 minutes break. [[PAUZA]] We stayed a little longer because Mr. Tihić had... one delegation, an international visit, so that was why instead of three we started at half four. I hope these... elements that were missing came in the meantime, so now I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. We start at point 15. Here you go. Who's interested in the debate? Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2655	Here, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I have asked for these missing pages of the Rules of Procedure to be delivered to us on the work of the Interim Commission, which, by decision of the Parliamentary Assembly, was tasked with carrying out, to conduct a tender and to propose a list of candidates who reported for this distinguished function. 36 Since I know that the ombudsmans will now continue at today’s session of this house, then I am obliged to say my position in advance, that it may be known. So I believe that the whole story is carved and that the annulment of an ombudsman's election earlier made by the Parliamentary Assembly is a single game, a party outwitting, which should be finalized today. So, I object to such a way of working, I object to the annulment of the elections, the legal election of one candidate, and I oppose the attempts that we feel today, both today and yesterday, here that the entire procedure that has passed the House of Representatives today and that some new candidates are being elected. I'm saying that for principled reasons. First, I think there is no great need or real reason for us to go into unnecessary conflicts of compliance with the House of Representatives, because we should, with a little more confidence, at least on these issues, look at their decisions. The second reason is, I asked, not for no reason, for us to get this Rules of Procedure, so that I could stamp out some of his provisions, literally unscathed. In the Commission Report that we received on page 1 and 2. ... according to 2nd is said: 'taught by experience from the previous commission and given complaints to work', that the work was not transparent, 'the Commission concluded at the beginning of the work that its work should be transparent, open and public, so as not to give cause to anyone that it gives wrong grades of work without foundation'. At the beginning of this text we have a letter from one of the candidates, professor of Dr Enes Hašić, who cancels his participation, withdraws his candidacy for reasons of manipulation that he clearly stated here, I will not interpret it further. Therefore, this formulation, presented in the Report on page 2, then in the following paragraph, says: 'The Commission will establish in its Rules of Procedure, inter alia, an interview - public hearing of candidates, benchmarks, score-pointing, and the establishment of a list of candidates and other issues'. It sounds nice, a beautiful phrase, which is a desirable phrase can be read here, and then when you take the Rules of Procedure and look at it, then you'll see what it is, what that commission declares objective. So, in this rulebook on fighting, setting a ranking list, there's not one objective criterion. They're all subjective, and I call everything an artistic impression. Nowhere is said to be appointed a BiH citizen, in addition to the general conditions, a graduate lawyer with a legal exam and at least ten years of legal experience in the legal profession in which he was appointed, remember this word pointed out, with proven experience in the field of protection of human rights and freedoms, civil liberties, and high moral reputation. Not a single criterion to prove it and to show it. In order for this phrase to be translated into the provision of Article 18, which says: '(Critory for points) the Commission will score a candidate on the basis of the following criteria: an interview of zero... It means six candidates. 'The range ranges from zero to 180 points per category' means an artistic impression after talking to the candidate. If it was not possible to objectify the criterion here, then at the next evaluation of 'The Work experience so far', it had to be objective. And here it says: 'the current work experience from 0 to 30 points. How and how much, it doesn't say anything! Isn't it possible to say here, if it's a minimum in the competition of 10 years of work, experience in the legal profession, that it's, say, 20 points every year, that it's a point or two. No, and it's changed, it stays on the artistic impression. 37 Third element, the candidate's public reputation and high moral reputation. Imagine, please, these formulations, which proves it. Again, the artistic impression, or the party impression, of how I'm going to assess someone's moral reputation! And the fourth point, 'Achieved experience in the field of protection of human rights and civil liberties'. And it seems that the most points were won by those who were representatives of the repressive system in the old country, and at least those who were in the function of protecting human rights and freedom. But that's why Article 20 continues to say, 'the data on the score is secrets.' They're not even available to the candidates. So this is why I'm saying this so that someone today doesn't try to manipulate us, sell fog, talk about transparency, fair criteria, score and interest in the common good. Today, there will be an attempt to break through party candidates, whether or not they have one of the only five references that are prone to the requests. And to end with that, it is likely to show up here as well as in all other parliamentary procedures that the number of hands will decide everything. But I'm going to paraphrasise a folk who says that a hundred judges tried an unfortunate one. One of the councilmen kept saying to the court, "I'm against it, I'm against it!" They ask him, "Well, good thing you're yelling, why are you against it? He says, "I know you're going to hang him, but I want you to know that I'm against him." So, I want it to be known that I am against this manipulation by the Commission, that I am against the manipulation that the two parties play here today in this house, about the election of the Ombudsman, and that I remain faithful to what this House of Representatives voted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2656	Thank you very much. Mr. Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2657	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I would like to express my clear position on the election of the Ombudsman in BiH. Especially because I was a member of this Ad hoc commission in the first session, my colleagues know it and I am the only one who is not again, here, according to the College's proposal, which I have naturally respected and it is not a problem at all, re-proposed even in the second convocation of the Ad hoc Commission. For these reasons I feel the need to express myself, I would say, my dilemma or reservations in the way the Ad hoc commission has determined how to finish this important job. The colleagues will recall, and here are most colleagues who are on the Ad hoc commission here are witnesses that we in the previous session have advocated that this commission performs its work in a way that does formal-legal verification of the application of candidates, prepare lists and direct them to statements to homes that are actually in accordance with the Law on the Selection of the Ombudsman and in charge. Moreover, Article 3(2) of the Law clearly states what the task and the role of the Ad hoc commission is, therefore, to publish a public call, then implement the procedure, sets out the list of candidates who fulfil the conditions. Nowhere does it appear that it was necessary and it was necessary to perform an interview and make a ranking and in any way prefer candidates. However, I appreciate and appreciate these efforts, and it was worth talking to a number of people who ran, who have their experiences, etc., in the end, take their right to determine 38 points the way we got, whether, in the report of the Commission. However, what is more important to me and most importantly that... here after two years, since nearly two years, since the open procedure of the ombudsman election we have come to the situation today at this session to end or extend the agony, so on the choice of ombudsman. And in that sense, what got stuck last time in the House of Representatives was now off and the House of Representatives did their part of the job and chose candidates from a number of those who applied, did, of course. Today I want to make it clear here how I'm going to stand up to this situation. So, I will clearly support, no matter how it is decided, the vote publicly or secretly, however it may be, to support the House of Representatives' proposals for two reasons. So, the first reason I want this agony to end and, here, after two years of procedure, I honestly don't want to participate in the extension of uncertainty and certain politics that have really been created by this Ad hoc commission and this procedure. So I personally convinced myself that it was a very complex job and you were responsible and in the end on target you were no one else, from the media to, I don't know, which institutions. And of course we end the procedure... in proposals supported by the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives. And secondly, as far as candidate quality is concerned, and from résumés is visible, who read, of course, I believe that you have all read: that many candidates meet their both professional and moral abilities, but here is what makes the House of Representatives designated for the names of these three candidates. There is no shortage of any of them, neither of them, nor of experience, nor of moral ability. I am particularly speaking for candidates in the Bosniak order, so I personally know the lady, from the Croatian people, without contesting that such qualities also have a proposed candidate in the Serbian House of Representatives. And here I am, on the trail of what counterpart Božo Rajić was saying, I will support, therefore, that this whole story ends today, the proposals of the House of Representatives and that today we have BiH ombudsmans in the names proposed in the House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2658	Thank you. Is there any further? Mr Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2659	I'd just like to do something here for the future. A similar situation was, if you remember, the election of auditors. Or it stings and they have objective criteria for that score, even that artistic impression, so let's make it 10, 15, 20% don't know either. And we were now forced to do it in fact to be the only criterion, so that only people in Parliament would be named, or just to say, they were responding. So we need to influence, so let Parliament choose who it wants. I do not dispute the right of parties that have a majority that, ultimately, will always be so, choose it. But now let's not trouble ourselves with the situation of these rank-lists, who never go the way some of them did, so why make them if they're not going to be something to determine, determine the first, second, third, etc. We're just making our own lives miserable. Well, here's to the College, I don't know, the idea of trying for a perspective in the future that where it affects these Rules of Procedures, they're 39 different, that choice is either like this or like that. Or that they say who's best so that we can just name or compare, they say they match the competition, and then Parliament chooses it. Like this, we always put ourselves in a position to ourselves, I don't know, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2660	Is there more? Mr. Rančić, I'll have a few sentences.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2661	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, I was a member of the Ad hoc commission to conduct procedures for the election of the Ombudsman both the first and second time. And according to his respected counterpart Rajić, the work of this commission is absolutely not true. This can also be discussed by counterpart Branko Zrno and co-worker Dušanka Majkić, who participated in the second commission, and here is counterpart Vidović's statement regarding the work of the original commission, the Ad hoc commission for the selection of the Ombudsman. Namely, both the work of the first Ad hoc commission and the work of the second Ad hoc commission was, responsibly, professional and professional and transparent and the choice or non-election of the Ombudsman cannot go to the work of individuals or the entire ad hoc commission. The Ad hoc commission had no mandate to elect the Ombudsman either the first time or the second time, but only to implement the procedure, did it, and proposed to each and every other home the choice of the Ombudsman. The evaluations of the work of the second ad hoc commission are also not correct. In fact, the Commission has worked fully together with the presence of all the time and representatives of the international community as well as the non-governmental sector. We've been given an evaluation by certain officials, and that's what all MPs and delegates got, and you could... you could read it, so I wouldn't repeat it here right now. Namely, behavior in style that if you don't choose who I want... on this total list, then the work of this committee is not good, the work of one home is not good, the work of another home is not good. If you happen to be, is it, the chosen candidates that I like... like or like or are my relatives or party... members, then the work of the ad hoc commission and the work of the House of Representatives and the work of the People's House is fine. Such arguments are not valid arguments, and they cannot, can't, can't be accepted in advance, should be, should be rejected. My esteemed colleagues, one criticises the Commission's work, and the other says I will support the selection of candidates confirmed by the House of Representatives. And three of what the House of Representatives has chosen are selected from the procedures carried out by this committee. I can't do it, so it can't do the Commission's work if those who I like or absolutely don't like the Commission's work if, by chance, God Bog, someone else goes by. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2662	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Rajić. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2663	Well, distinguished colleague Rančić very skillfully manipulates, twists thesis. I didn't say anywhere that the work of this committee was both in the first session and in the second, bad or malicious. I said that this whole procedure and inventing non-existent criteria, quite subjective, was unnecessary. What Mr Ibrahimpašić was talking about, what you're making a rank list, what you're trying so hard about when these ranks don't bind anyone alive, it was smarter, as Mr Ibrahimpašić said, or say - this is the best candidate in the order of this nation, the one from the other, the one from the third. Recommended to Parliament to choose this or these seven candidates in this group, here five, there four, meet the conditions, you choose, it is your right. So in that sense, my objection was that this was a pointless waste of time and the introduction of a subjective element. And as for these other remarks, Mr. Rančić, that the question of my pleasure or your pleasure is whether to be chosen by me or not, I was merely reacting because I know that today is preparing for the collapse of the House of Representatives' decision and selecting some new candidates. I'm just asking-- why? What are the arguments to do that? Nothing else, no one here is of any kind or help to me Bog, nor am I apprehensive about the party; I would accept the will of a fellow MP from the House of Representatives and have accepted so many times so far. Don't impute me... some bias because I didn't show it at any point, so I didn't do it today. I'm saying that the Commission makes sense if her job... commits someone. If it's not binding, then it's really a fog sale.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2664	Replica, Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2665	So, the first Ad hoc commission did exactly that, without a score, proposed to Parliament the lists and again the Ombudsmans were not elected. Another Ad hoc commission enters into the business even more detail, makes criteria that are general and were valid for all candidates, is that, it wasn't from one candidate one criteria, for another, etc. Here we go again... not good for the Commission. And the second part of my speech was: it was not you, colleague Rajić, but your colleague to you. You had a general, and then a colleague said – yes, we will support if the candidates who have already chosen the House of Representatives are elected. Well, then! Is the work of the Commission or is it not good for the Commission? Or should the Commission work on which one will be selected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2666	Ivanic. Well, here's a few sentences. I haven't been in this house for a long time, and otherwise I haven't been in Parliament for a long time, but I think it's one of the most difficult things that Parliament faces: choice, choice of people of the ombudsmen type, independent auditor, and that the most time is spent there and the greatest conflicts are being made. We have, on the one hand, formal things where we all swear for both the expertise and responsibility and the criteria, the rank-list and everything else. And real life says candidates are elected either by party line or dominantly. 41 We have a congregation majority that is inside of each other, and that is why we have, realistically, that we did not have auditors from the Bosniak people's order and that, by what I feel, we will have a problem with different choices again and with the Ombudsman. And on the other hand, when you look at it realistically, except for the political bloating and the real consequences, I don't know, the real benefits of it are actually gone, it's people who have to do their job and the institution hasn't worked in a normal way for two years. The numbers will decide, so is parliamentary democracy, who manages to provide more numbers, and will get a majority. But apparently if things don't change that one other structure in the House of Representatives is going to have a different majority than it is in the House of Nations today and we're going to be spinning around all the time. And no one will win, and we will always swear to God for principles. And in principle, I think it must be less hypocritical and open-minded. I, to be honest, think that this was the obligation of key leaders... the parties that make up the majority to reach an agreement on this, and not that we here, let's say, we argue, we argue, we convince, we look for arguments that we all know together are basically not real to us. So I think that this whole procedure, in fact, the question of the functioning of the congregation's majority much more than the criteria and procedures themselves, we are all behind the procedure in these discussions. And that's why I think it would be good for the assembly majority to sit down with or council of ministers who are a real body and make some kind of deal once. The situation in the RS knows who the majority of the assembly is and there are no internal problems, unlike... a little tension, here I say, within the parties... from which representatives of the especially Bosniak and Croatian peoples come in this House of Peoples, so probably, as if we are persuading and spending a lot, we will hardly have any great benefits. It is likely that the vote will decide, and it is my opinion that we will most likely re-enter the procedure of the election from what I hear and that the election process of the Ombudsman will be repeated. It's not good, it's really not good, but it seems that things like this, which, in relation to the laws, to fundamental political decisions, are not so important except for a bit of vanity from political parties. I think we're gonna get a lot of public criticism here, but it's real political life. So I mean, I'm saying, it's hard for us to do something about conversations and arguments, but I guess it's going to be a vote. Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2667	I agree with those speakers who say the question of choice is not an easy job at all, especially where all of these procedures that need to be solved in the best way... to help choose the best candidate. I don't think that the procedures have been worked out in the BiH Parliament, but here are certain remarks that the retail criteria are mostly subjective and less objective. And that's why we have these problems that arise in the election itself. We have different interpretations of whether Parliament should only choose on the list how it is scored, or first from the list, if it does not pass first, second, etc. Or he can choose anyone who's been chosen. Most of us don't know the candidates very much. I don't know maybe two or three of these candidates in the line of all three peoples. We in the U.S. didn't decide who our candidate would be. I thought it was perfectly normal, logical to be the candidate who won the most points, who won the most points because we don't choose a party personality here, we choose one person who needs to protect human rights, no matter what party he belonged to or doesn't belong to. And, if you remember, when it was an auditor's election, we voted for both the Hrvat and the Srbin and the Bošnjak, who was first. Is that right, it's not, I don't know, but it's the only thing we have as some kind of, let's take 42, objective criteria. The rest can be interpreted differently, you know. So we and this time, at least, MPs, or delegates of the SDA, will vote for candidates from one, the other, from the third people who are first on the list. If that first one doesn't pass, we'll vote for whoever else is on the list. I also agree with those who say it will create problems, that it will mean a new competition, a waste of time, etc. But apparently, until things like this happen, we won't and we don't know how to sort out that question, that area, not only when it comes to the Ombudsman, we're going to have some other choices tomorrow, you know. We must have a clear attitude. Either this commission will check out all the candidates and say that you and those candidates meet the requirements without ranking and then we have the freedom to choose who we want or, as it does now, score, I don't know, those 600 points to somewhere there 300-400 points, as which candidate on this list appears. Whether it's a good score or not, I see here and I want to believe that this commission of ours that did it did it knowingly anyway. And we, like the SDA delegates, will still respect what the Commission has proposed, and we will vote for the first; if they do not pass first, we will vote for others; if the second one does not pass, then we will vote for the third, etc. Will that agree with what it's like in the House of Representatives? Probably not, you know. But after this, we need to sit down and talk seriously and negotiate, you know, how to make these choices. We can't, the House of Peoples can't accept the role of being just the home that's apologising, just like the House of Representatives did. There must be arguments both in the election and in all the decisions we make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2668	Thank you. Is he still interested? There isn't. I'm closing the debate and we're approaching the vote. sekretar, it is voted in a way to first elect a candidate from the order of the Serb people and to go, puts it to the vote. Am I putting in the first one or am I putting in a proposal for the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2669	... the election carried out by the House of Representatives. [[no microphone turned on]] Let's be business clear with that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2670	These are questions for the secretary, not for me. Last time I... was it the 3rd or 4th, he ran into something that... Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2671	Please, Chairman,... Ad hoc commission report. [[You don't understand.]] There are no candidates at the House of Representatives in that report. We therefore have the same right as the House of Representatives to plead on the Report submitted by the Commission. And you can't 43 deny us our right to decide on this report. That I accept now something the House of Representatives voted and determined because we don't even have it here!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2672	I have no intention of denying anyone's right, I'm just procedural, and I'm not a real interpreter of this Rules of Procedure. I'm asking, since I know there's a proposal to put both of them together and, if it's interpreted by the College, then the College will have to meet, yes, and answer this question by Mr Rajić. Here you go, Mr. Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2673	....we had the same situation during the election of the auditor and that we did not move a vote on what the House of Representatives did, but had the Commission and that practice was introduced. We didn't ask any of these questions at the time. So we have to go back to what we have here and vote in order.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2674	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2675	Just one more note... We have a proposal for a list of Ad hoc commissions, no proposal for a list or candidates established by the House of Representatives. [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2676	Just a minute. Please, I know, I know how, but I don't want to hide the answers or anything to the questions. I knew there'd be questions about the House of Representatives' proposal first. I asked for an opinion, it was said: The College will interpret it properly because it is not intended for the Rules of Procedure to be precise. Given the Commission's report, the College considers it necessary to vote on the Commission's report, so the candidates in the order they are listed here. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2677	Where in the Ad hoc report does the commission say that the order is respected? They deliver the Report and say in the final section and refer it to the parliamentary procedure for Parliament to decide who to choose. Nowhere does it say that their order should be respected. Find me where it says it. If that's how we're going to start with our Ad hoc report, then we can propose from that list, so let's say, here's the candidate and that one and we'll vote on it. Nowhere, can you tell me where in the report the Committee obliges us to respect the order? Because he didn't respect the House of Representatives either. No, where does it say we have to respect? 44
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2678	Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2679	Just information, no one says we have to respect the order.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2680	So here's the vote if you...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2681	Please, we're going to have to vote for something, we can either back or from the beginning. So he's not saying anywhere that we have to choose first. So, the artistic impression, as someone calls it, is an artistic impression, because there are no precise ways in which you can measure the previous work experience in the legal profession. What an artistic impression that can be expressed in a measure. An interview? For me, one candidate made a better impression, for a colleague he left a worse one. So, that's all the artistic impression, you can sneak under it. There's no other way. Here's that art, who are we going to choose? The commission did its job. And we can say, here, the last nine here, the sixth here, the eighth here. No Niko's trying to stop us. So, any of these people, they've all met the conditions, they're all satisfying, let's pick anyone on that list. No, we're not arguing about it at all. Let's vote, and then we'll take the turn, and then we'll go where we come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2682	Some sort of decision-making order.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2683	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2684	Mr. Rajić
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2685	We're trying... to shut our minds out of this debate. Nowhere, not in power to appoint this committee, nor in its report, does it say that we should vote in their order. They've provided us with a list of candidates from every constituent nation that meets the requirements. Therefore, Mr. President, it is wrong to give a vote by regular numbers, in order, but you should give us the opportunity to make a proposal within the constituent people, and then vote on proposals..., one or two. And there's no other way to go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2686	Mr. Filipović. Just please, please! Mr. Filipović got his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2687	Chairman, thank you very much for your word. 45 So we have to get out of this. So here is a situation where the College is deprived of the right to modernize, chair, this session in accordance with the agreement in the College. The reminder for running this session was created in the usual way that reminders are usually made to each chairman in both homes. We have received an official act of the Ad hoc commission and we have received for each of the constituent nations the order that established this Ad hoc commission. Logic in our College is such that we go through constitutional nations. As only one of the constituent nations is chosen, the moment when a person from one constituent people is elected, we find that this person is elected and moves on to the given order of the Ad hoc commission of another constituent people, from the first until that person from that people is elected. If a person from all three is not chosen, but only from two constituent nations, we have a proposal from the Ad hoc commission; and from the order of others, they will join the selection of candidates from the order of others. So, as foreseen, as we agreed in the College and what a reminder to the chairman, the first choice would go from the order of the Serb people, it is a order that we did not determine, but which was determined by the Ad hoc commission that delivered the list. The list lists eight candidates who have passed the checks and have been identified as such from 1st to 8th place and stabbed from the order of the Serb people. They would then join the election of candidates from the Croatian people where there are six possible candidates. Then candidates from the Bosniak people where nine candidates were identified and we have one candidate qualified from the ranks of others. So, I ask that we accept it as a method and work in the election, and in the selection of Ombudsmans in the House of Peoples. It's our right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2688	Any other interested in the debate? So, the College believes that it should go according to peoples and candidates as the Commission has given, because we have a report, i.e. Proposal for a list of Ad hoc committees to appoint three ombudsmen. That's our interpretation. Of course, if it's any different, I can put it and then even put it to a vote, to define myself, but I suggest you do it in principle.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2689	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2690	Thank you. Mr. Neimarlija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2691	Well, here it is, although my colleague Rajić actually gave... The college now has the right to resort to the vote, I, here in a moment, however, before he did so, signed up and set out to sign up, to relieve this as little as possible, this situation, in a way that this is not the first, first experience of 46 of us with this mode of work. Last time, however, my colleague Rajić was not at the session where we chose the auditor and where we were actually acting the same as today, here, we were supposed to act, to react to the list, in the way that this Ad hoc commission actually proposed, and this is very logical. The Commission was not formed to give us a list of candidates who meet the requirements, but also to make a ranking of candidates, so this is a logical sequence of events that we therefore declare by sticking to the list that the Ad hoc Commission has prepared for us. However, I fully understand the insistence of fellow Rajić, who, in other words, repeated something of what I was saying last time, trying to affirm simply the truth and not some of our gentlemen's, I would say, the obligation to respect the results of the statement in the House of Representatives, who also voted following this list proposed by the Commission. In that sense, therefore, I just wanted to relax, I don't know, this situation, although here's the solution, and I expect fellow Rajić to appreciate that this is the only logical sequence of our behavior, actually, to our behaviour, but that it was also needed to show a little more understanding, I would say, for the results of the vote in the House of Representatives and not to refer to it, last time I said the same thing, as purely formal. If we are bound by the position of the House of Representatives in making important decisions, it should also be in this obviously delicate situation, a delicate choice. We've all pointed out that this is quite a delicate job. To oblige us on this side, therefore, it has the understanding to insist fellow Rajić on respecting it, but it is obviously not formally respected, but everyone has the right to make clear that he considers it necessary to make a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-23-0.u2692	Thank you very much. Well, if it's gone, I'd close the debate and join the vote. I will remind you once again, what I said, that the House of Representatives has chosen as the Ombudsman Ljubomir Sandić, Mariofil Ljubić and Emina Halilović, that you simply know that that is what I said. First we choose a candidate from the Serb people's order. The first on the list is Rad Kafedžić. Please prepare to vote. You can vote! By the time I get this entity, I guess it will be, I hope it will be. So "for" voted five, "against" seven. There is no majority, this candidate has not been elected. Next on the list is Ljubomir Sandić. Prepare to vote. You can vote! It's a final vote. The candidate received 11 votes "for", one "against", one "abstained", needed entity majority, and candidate Ljubomir Sandić was elected. 47 We move to a vote for candidates from the Croatian people. First on the list is Branka Raguž. Prepare to vote. You can vote! The candidate received five votes "yes", eight votes "against", no, there is no need for a majority. We're moving on to the next one. The next candidate is Ivo Bradvica. Prepare to vote. You can vote! The candidate received nine votes "for", three votes "against", one "abstained". From Federation Six, from RS Three. Candidate Ivo Bradvica selected. We're moving on to selecting candidates from the Bosniak people's order. First on the list was Jasminka Džumhur. Prepare to vote. You can vote! 10 votes "for", two votes "against", one "abstained". Federation majority, RS required number. So Jasminka Džumhur's candidate has been elected. If I can do it now, even though I don't know if I have any right to say it at all, but since we've made the opposite decisions... The House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, this basically means... that the competition for the Ombudsmans will be repeated, because it is possible only in the package, although the candidate from the order of the Serb people is one and in one and another home chosen, is not the case with auditors, but only in the package. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Since we now have a few ratifications of the agreement, sorry, sorry, just a little bit, me for a second, I don't know what the secretary assures me, but from the 16th point on, it's all about giving consent. I think I'll open up a debate about all the proposals, not to go dot by point, so if there's any objection to one of these openings, and then we vote once to give consent to all these agreements. Is there, can you accept this proposal? We can. I will then open a discussion of the agreement on ratification of all agreements, from point 16 to point 26. Are there any interested? There isn't. Thank you. If not, please prepare for the vote. You can vote! I agree that we unanimously agreed to all ratification agreements that were on today's agenda. I would like to remind you that a joint session is on the subject of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement on Wednesday 30th at 11.00 p.m. _________(?) 48 [[no microphone turned on]] Please. Wednesday at 11.00 p.m. The seat is closed at 4:20 p.m.
