ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2711	I suggest we get started. So, respected colleagues and fellow delegates, gentlemen ministers, respected media representatives, I welcome you all and open the 21st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For the 21st session, I suggest the next, changed 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes with the 19th and 20th sessions of the House of Peoples; 3. Voting on the conclusion of the delegation of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Ilija Filipović, number 02-50-1-16-1708 of 15. 5. 2008 considered at the 17th session of the House of Peoples; 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Alignment of Obligations under the account of the old foreign exchange savings under the reduced procedure, in accordance with Article 121. Rules of Procedure; 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 121. Rules of Procedure; 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Administrative Disputes (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 7. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on bottled drinking waters of BiH (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax (first reading) – Proposer Mladen Ivanić; 9. Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the "Official Messenger of BiH" (first reading) – Proposed House of Representatives; 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 11. Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2007; 12. 2007 Work Report and JPNIO "The Official Journal of BiH" 2008; 13. Information on the authorisations issued for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products for 2007; 2 14. Proposal for a Council of Ministers to appoint a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina concession commission; 15. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Slovak Republic; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Slovak Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investments; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Annex to the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Norway on the financing of projects in favour of the judiciary or courts and prosecutors in BiH; 18. Giving consent to ratification of the Protocol between the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina - Border Police - and the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia - Police Directorates - on the implementation of mixed patrols along the common state border; 19. Giving consent to ratification of the Protocol between the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina - Border Police - and the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia - Police Directorates - on official transit through the state area of the other Contracting Party in order to act in their own territory; 20. Giving consent to ratification of the Protocol between the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Border Police - and the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia - Police Directorates - on sending liaison officers; 21. Giving consent to ratification of the Protocol between the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina - Border Police - and the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia - Police Directorates - on the establishment of joint working groups for the control of crime; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Final Acts of the Regional Conference on Radios for the Planning of Digital Earth Broadcasting Service in Areas 1 and 3, within the frequency range of 174-230 megahertz and 470-862 megahertz, 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on International Trade of endangered species of wild animals and plants; 24. Giving consent to ratification of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of various cultural terms; 25. Granting consent to ratify Article 1 Supplement Conventions prohibiting or restricting the use of certain types of conventional weapons; 26. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Civil Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Regional Office of the World Health Organisation for Europe; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Raiffeisen Zentralbank Osterreich Actiengesellschaft – the development of a water supply system in the Municipality of Laktashi. I would like to remind you that this amended agenda does not include the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in BiH and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties because the competent commissions have not completed the procedure under the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, so we have therefore removed them from the agenda. 3 This is the established agenda of the College of the House of the Peoples. Is anyone answering for a word, or is there a change and a supplement? Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2713	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to welcome you first after your vacation. I believe that everyone has rested and that it will be enough for our jobs to be better and more efficient in the coming period. As far as the agenda is concerned, I would ask the House to adopt one initiative which all delegates have received on the table, which is this initiative concerning the final regulation of the legal status of the Official Journal, so the Public Enterprise of the Newspaper, which operates in the unregulated first status of which the revision has spoken on several occasions and has determined that such unregulated status may have consequences for the further work of this institution. In that sense, I would ask the House to plead on this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2714	Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2715	The chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, is my proposal to point 3. The vote on the conclusion of delegates in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Ilija Filipović, the number of which was discussed at the 17th session of the House of Peoples, takes off today's session of the agenda. What am I based on? We all know that the 17th session launched an initiative with these conclusions, with three points of these conclusions, and we know that the Bošnjak klub has challenged the procedure, that we have raised a question of vital national interest. In that conclusion, the third point was disputed in these conclusions, and the procedure was carried out in a way that went to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court made a decision on this issue. The essence of the Constitutional Court's decision is that the Constitutional Court's view that the proposed conclusion cannot be considered a final decision on the formation of the RTV channel is whether, and that such a conclusion as a legal act does not constitute an act under Article IV.3.f) of the BiH Constitution and on which grounds the Constitutional Court would be competent to assess this issue of vital national interest. As one of the relevant rules to which the Constitutional Court is called is on page 6 to also call for Article 143 (1) and (2) of point (d) of our current Rules of Procedure which states... allow me to read Article 143 and other acts: 'Home may make declarations, decisions, recommendations, conclusions and other acts'. So other than the constitutions prescribed and, whether, the law, amendments, amendments, amendments, etc. This home may make, among other things, declarations, decisions, recommendations, conclusions and other acts. In point (d) of Article 2(2) of the Rules of Procedure states that ‘The conclusion is made on issues in the individual matter concerning the procedure.’ Therefore, this home can only conclude questions about the individual matter and concerning the procedure. The conclusion, as a legal act, by the definition of our Rules of Procedure cannot be an act to measure some things like that 4 done in this case. So, if we're going to respect the Constitutional Court's decision, and I respect it, even though I have my own personal, different opinion, in terms of that decision... So, I respect, I am a legalist, I believe that all decisions, that is, Article IV.3.f) of the Constitution, say: if a House decision can be destructive by vital national interest, then every decision, every decision of the House is in that sense in that sense, whether it's a constitution, whether it's a law, an amendment and an amendment of the law, an amendment, a decision, a declaration, a resolution, or any other act. But that's my opinion, that's aside. I respect the Constitutional Court's decision, what the Constitutional Court has called upon is that the conclusion can only be reached on procedural matters, so here I am, respecting this matter, then please, and you are applying the Rules of Procedure, not to violate our Rules of Procedure and that this item of the agenda is removed because, in its essence, it is not the conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2716	Thank you very much. Obviously, we're having an interesting session today. I thought it wouldn't be that interesting, but from the beginning, it's gonna be, on the agenda, we're gonna spend a little bit of time. If I can say how I interpret it. I interpreted Mr Filipović's conclusion as a procedural conclusion, because he asked the Council of Ministers to declare the application of the law, and to make a statement on the provision of a bill. If I as chairman can, but maybe I'm going too early in the proposal, let's see, so I'm opening a debate, I mean, is there any interest in going ahead or are we going to approach the vote? Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2717	As for this proposal, namely Mrs Dušanka Majkić's initiative, to regulate the legal status of "The Official Journal of BiH", I would like to say a few words. I believe that the legal status of the "Official Journal of BiH" is regulated by this law, as stated in the written initiative adopted by the Assembly of the Republic of BiH. We can be dissatisfied with the legal status, the solutions, so that to go into the amendment of that law, we can change the whole law, etc. but the legal status of the Official List exists. If he's good, he's not, we see here he's got a lot of serious objections, how thorough they are, how not, I can neither confirm nor deny it. I don't want to talk about it, but we can't go with the initiative to regulate the legal status of the "Official List" because legal status already exists. It is Regulisan by the applicable law because according to the Constitution of BiH, Annex II, Transitional provisions, point 2. The continuity of the legal rules, it is clear that all laws, regulations, judicial procedures that are in force in BiH's territory, as soon as the Constitution enters into force, will remain in force to the extent that they are not contrary to the Constitution, until otherwise determined by the BiH authorities. So, you know also in current practice and that entity regulations even regulations of certain Herceg-Bosnia arrangements, the Federation regulations, etc. are in effect until they are abolished, changed or adopted new regulations for them, so when it comes to this regulation. Here, in my opinion, the initiative may be formulated in a different way, not to resolve the entire legal status, but to resolve this matter in the best possible way, through certain amendments to the law, if necessary, and to remove any comments we have spoken about. 5 For this reason we did not, I could not support this initiative at the College, but I have no objection to supplementing, modifying, or, behold, this whole law, this matter regulates properly.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2718	Mr Filipović, then Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2719	Dear fellow MPs, representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, the media and all of you who follow the work of the People's House today, I have reported that I would say only a few sentences in relation to this request to remove a regular mandatory agenda item, whose decision has been halted by the Bošnjak klub's statement, that this conclusion, is a decision on the proposal for my conclusion in point 3. harmful to the vital interests of the Bosniak people. So I am also puzzled and concerned and saddened by the amount of anger of the Bosniak Club against this initiative that tends to bring the Law on the Public TV System into a just and just position against all the consumers, the citizens of BiH, so what they are looking at, what they are listening to on public broadcasters. I speak to public broadcasters, they are facing the public and to every citizen of BiH. So they are both public and in this sense because citizens support and pay for it, not the state, as many are chasing, mixing and misinformed, they are in power and this parliament, because this parliament has established public broadcasters in this country. So, it's confusing all this together with how angry our initiative is for one righteous position, because we appreciate that it is unfair for the Croatian people in this country, because without channels in official languages in public broadcasters in this country, the identity of that people whose language is not heard is undermined. We are trying to convince both convinced and unconvinced and those who do not want to hear that language is the foundation of the identity of one people, in this case I am talking about how the Croatian people have been cut off because in public broadcasters it is therefore not spoken in the same amount as other languages official in this country. I have said a hundred times, whenever I say, that it has an entity of the RS and has its own public broadcaster, the public broadcaster of the RTVRS, I hereby congratulate the Serbian people for opening another public broadcaster the other day with a modern digital technique for East Sarajevo and this is the way to inform the public. So, I congratulate you on this trip because I know that the RS government has supported this project in eastern Sarajevo. See, that's the thing I'm trying to do with this initiative that's being challenged by the Bosniak People's Club, this way right now. I would like no initiative, nor the thought of the Croatian people in this country to come into an equal position, to put it in some kind of procedure, to go to state bodies and state institutions – that is confusing, I said, and worryingly, it is desperate for the fewth people in this country. So, what was this initiative? I wonder where Mr Rančić was sitting when we held a plenary session on 23 April 2008 and discussed public broadcasters, when we discussed the BHRT Report, where Mr Rančić was sitting when I renewed that same conclusion on May 15th and placed it in the regular agenda of the House, when a question of vital interest was raised for the idea of Croatian people to regulate in a fair and equal manner 6 of his right in the Law on the Public TV System in Article 9(2), where it was possible to correct this as requested. So, I'm now asking where the Rules of Procedure move from now on, and I'm free to say it because I've listened to the sermons, the sermons, whatever you want, the assurances, the teaching and the teaching of what they are, and then the Constitutional Court has said that by its decision that a statement by the Bosniak People's Club in the House of the People's House of Destruction is of vital interest to the proposal for the conclusion of my smallness – that this statement by the Bošnjak klub does not meet the procedural correctness because you found in the Constitution in Article IV 3d) something that cannot be based on your appeal to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court has made it clear to you. And there, take a stenogram, I if I were you I'd be ashamed of the lessons you've taught all of us who thought differently, if the Rules of Procedure had said this, so the procedures are this, so on and so on. And you've made a procedural mistake in the staff. Don't ever teach us any more procedures, please, publicly from this pay phone. So, I can't accept for these reasons that I have cited, and I'm going to state other reasons when we discuss this point, that someone is now pushing the Rules of Procedure and saying that it can't be a regular item of the agenda that we've held up the debate, which we've all ended up about, just to say that and the Constitution says that and the Rules of Procedure says that, and then you raised your hand and said -- that's harmful to the vital interests of the Bosniak Club or the Bosniak people, forgive me. So, and now you're telling me that we can't put it back on as a mandatory agenda point to complete the plea procedure, the debate done. So it's something that confuses me. It also confuses me as a representative, as a member of the College, as a lawyer who understands the norm, that we can even stand up to this subject and thus oppose one initiative, because your initiative hurts, not the conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2720	Thank you very much. First, Mrs. Majkić, who is earlier, then Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2721	So, I'm really sorry that the bad atmosphere from the House of Representatives has passed on to this home. And I am sorry that the basic characteristic of our work is mistrust. And I regret that any proposal coming from the Croatian Club or the Srbin Club can no longer be accepted by the Bošnjak. That's enough reason for us all to seriously imagine how we're ever going to work again, how tomorrow any proposal on your part will be proposed and accepted. It's not good for it to be a commitment to our further work. In particular, I did not expect this attitude to be from Mr Tihić, who says to himself that he is a legalist, and I respect that, and that he does not want and does not support that the situation in one institution, which the review has so badly assessed from the aspect of the inability to continue working in such conditions, does not support this situation being resolved. 7 Mr. Tihić, we have too many open problems. If the Parliamentary Assembly does not find a way to resolve one by one openly, this country will really not have a chance. I call on you that there is no argument here that would give birth to you doubt that from the Club of Serbian Delegates comes a proposal which, for any reason, should be broken down and something in our favor. We addressed our issue of "Official List" in RS in an appropriate way. We want this issue and 10 million, as far as this institution is going, to the BiH budget, not to be spent by an illegal board of directors who has been elected in what way. So you're against it, too. So you're against the institution getting the necessary legitimacy by becoming BiH's institution. Thank you, please let us know about this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2722	Thank you very much. Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2723	Thank you very much. So, all the words of the esteemed colleague, Vice-President Ilija Filipović, were about the metrics, about the essence, and nothing was about the procedure. Listen to the transcript and all this, and you'll see it was all about the metrics. This is then contrary to the definition of the conclusion of Article 143 (1) point d), which is also called upon by the Constitutional Court as a reason why it considers that the reasons for entering the question, the assessment of the issue of vital national interest, what our club has initiated. Ratings that I or the Bosniak Club are against the equality of the language of the people, constitutionality of the letters, etc. - they're not true. They're flat-rate, we've repeated it countless times in both the media and the last session, and here I repeat, points 1 and 2. The conclusion, which reads: - The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is unquestionably in favour of the legitimate and stable business of public broadcasters and strongly powders truthfully, in whole, impartially, fairly and timelyly informing the public of all developments in BiH and achieving the right to inform the public equally in the languages of all three constituent peoples in BiH, in the spirit of international and European regulations and standards as well as the provisions of the BiH Constitution. - The home of the people of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly believes this issue is an important condition and equality for the people and citizens of BiH and is one of the cornerstones of the country's sustainability, self-sustainability and long-term stability. Here you can see, in two points, the conclusion in which equality and constitutionality and language and letters are mentioned, neither for me nor for the Bosniak Club are controversial. And then we supported them, and today they would support them. It's no problem. And don't impute us that we're against, God Bog, or constitutionality or equality! But when, dear colleagues, you're giving us lessons and giving us epithets there on the other side, be so much a Democrats, so if you're looking for yourself right for a national channel or for a national television, be so much a Democrats, let someone else, so anyone, have the right to think they shouldn't be national channels. Here, I don't think we need national channels. _________(?) Who are you talking to? 8 I mean, that's my opinion. _________(?) You don't need it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2727	I beg you, allow the delegate, Rančić, to bring the debate to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2728	... says he believes he should have a national channel in Croatian. I haven't once thrown, and as a man, I can listen to someone's request or someone's sentence. But you have to let someone else have a different opinion, at least that much you can allow every man, even if he's not a member of Parliament, that he's quite some ordinary, is it, people have the right to a different opinion. And once again about the procedure. The constitutional court in disposition, in terms of metrics, says that I am not inventing and harassing you, here I quote - is a decision, so it is determined that a statement by the Bosniak People's Delegates Club in the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the destruction of the vital interest of the Bosniak people in BiH points 3. The proposal for the conclusion of the House of Peoples delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Ilija Filipović, number..., since 23 April 2008, does not meet the requirement of procedural regularity. Therefore, the Constitutional Court has decided that our request does not meet the requirement of procedural regularity because the proposed conclusion does not constitute a decision for which the Constitutional Court would be responsible within the meaning of Article IV 3.f) of the Constitution of BiH. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, The Constitutional Court of Justice states on page 6. — the first calls for one of the relevant rules of Article 143 (1) and (2) of point (d) of the Rules of Procedure in which it is said... that the House of Conclusion is, in fact, concerned with questions concerning the individual matter concerning the procedure, rather than the metrics, because the Constitutional Court said: the conclusion is not a decision, whether, which has constitutional and legal facts, and only because, whether, it is, it does not enter into this jurisdiction. So under point 15. The Constitutional Court says - follows that the request in question was submitted by an authorised entity and that the procedural correctness within the meaning of Article IV 3e) and f) of the Constitution of BiH was respected in this part, however, in order for the request in question to be fully permitted, the Constitutional Court still has to examine whether, under quotes, the decision within the meaning of Article IV 3d to f) of the Constitution of BiH, which has legal and constitutional consequences for the vital national interests of the constituent peoples. 9 And finally, it goes down - in order for the Constitutional Court to be competent to deal with issues referred to in Article IV 3. d) to f) The Constitution of BiH must have a decision that has legal and constitutional implications for the vital interest of the constituent peoples. In the Constitutional Court's view, that's not the conclusion. So, the Constitutional Court, by sticking to our Rules of Procedure, considers the conclusion to be an act regulating procedural issues, not to be measured. I didn't make this up. It's all in the verdict that we all got, and we can read it and find the verdict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2729	Mr. Rajić, then Mr. Ibrahimpašić, then Ivanic, the debaters. Are there any more interested?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2730	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I suggest that, at least, as far as the Croatian Club is concerned, we don't spread this debate. We insist on keeping this a point of the agenda, so we'll get to the bottom of it. And, Mr. Rančić, the interpretation of the Constitutional Court's decisions can only be given by the Constitutional Court, and you can't do that. So I'm telling you, don't read the verdict five times, we all read it well. What is said in the statement of that Constitutional Court decision is clear that the Bošnjak klub has made a procedural mistake because it has not met the constitutional requirement to discuss the injury of vital national interest. All the other arguments you're reading have only one goal to further complicate and delay this issue. You forgot, quoting Article 143. Rules of Procedure, to read the last paragraph (3) which states that 'the vote shall be carried out in accordance with the established decision-making method in the House.' So there's no special decision-making process... but about the way it's decided in the House. And secondly, I reacted maybe a little incorrectly, unnecessarily when you said, "You can't take away the right for us to think differently, we don't think we need national channels." I said, "Who are we and who are we?" Secondly, when you talk about it, then it would be good to say - I personally think, so Hazim Rančić, a representative in this house, and I don't think it's good, or, if he represents on behalf of the club, to say the klub of Bošnjak thinks, and don't put us all in the summary sense, it doesn't suit us. We are not fit by this unsustainable status of public broadcasters in BiH. Here, I mean from correctness, I speak to us, I speak as a member of the Croatian Club and, I say, I am talking about the position of the Croatian people in the public TV system, and here it is evident, a fellow Filipović touched it, it is obvious that in this country individuals and individual groups act as owners of BiH and every attempt to claim rights in that country is seen as an attack on some privilege that must not be touched.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2731	Thank you very much. Mr Ibrahimpašić. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2732	I'm going to say something about this first initiative. I am looking at these conclusions, the second conclusion, says: "The House of Nations asks the Council of Ministers to organise the "Official Journal of BiH" as a new BiH institution." That would mean that this one has to shut down, that it has to go bankrupt, that it has to be liquidated into some devil's sea. Do you know what kind of job that is? How many claims are there, how many debts, how many court disputes? And why is that? Here's a good reason, I'll vote. Why, why wouldn't this guy be able to fix himself if it wasn't right, I don't know, or give her some kind of status, not shutting down for a huge job that's about to be closed down as a business entity, whether it's public or private, and that's just the same. And that's why I can't do this, that's all right, that's why I can't vote for this. Now, yes, Filipović, Mr Filipović, about the anger, I don't know how you got it, I really don't think that Adem Ibrahimpašić is answering any national channel, because I have and I've been remembering some things for a very long time and there's no talking about anger, Ilija. I won't be sad at all if you get it. But this is what I think, my people, so don't get rid of me because I think so.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2733	I have two replicas, one is Filipovićev, one is Mr. Tihić, and I have a report after me by Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2734	I'll be very brief, I have a need to remove a very bad syntagma that is used, which does not appear in my conclusion, which is not an integral part of my initiative, which is not an integral part of the rhetoric of the Hrvat klub. It's not about the national channel. The official language channel known to the BiH Constitution is being talked about. If a serious initiative is considered during the period when – there are continents that are totally digitized, from analogue to digital, digital broadcasting of television and radio programmes, there are many in Europe that have moved from analogue to digital television; so there can be five, 50, 150 channels, so there is no problem at all, so – if it is seriously accessible to consider the proposal for a conclusion that I have made, which I believe will come to the Council of Ministers, and if it is wanted to allow us to have something that is fair and no one is bothered by it, because it will be equal, and we will have in the official languages of the BiH State the broadcasting of public broadcasters' programmes, so citizens will be satisfied, so the citizens will pay a tv tax. Not a single fening goes, not a single mark from the BiH State Budget and the syntagma that will break down BiH if we have official languages in equal quantity used on radiotelevision channels is very lame. You know that, it won't fall apart, Belgium doesn't fall apart because we have Flemish and we have three official languages in schools and on radio and on television, etc. That's not why it's falling apart. The money's making Belgium fall apart. When they say it's starting to fall apart, governments fall, maybe it's better to say so. Please, I asked, so in my conclusion I proposed that the Law on the Public TV System in the Council of Ministers be considered and proposed amendments and additions. That Article 9 said that "The Council of Ministers can also establish new channels of radio and television within the Public TV System", I said "in official Croatian", so it will be on both official Bosnian and official Serbian, and we will achieve equality. The Hrvat are not looking for anything for themselves that not 11 are looking for for others. I've never heard of any suggestion: give us, we don't need others! That, no, there is no future for BiH in such demands, in such demands and in such a survival of such provisions that do not give us equality. So, in the official language! When you say -- the national channel -- then the others are less inclined to tell us -- that's nationalist. And the others add more and then the rest, I wouldn't repeat where it's going, so that's how one healthy idea is relativated that doesn't hurt anyone, and you want to disgust others who should decide. So, no national channels, I'm not advocating any national channels. But I'm advocating an official language that doesn't, if they're being chased away, and the language of a nation goes out, there's no nation, it's the foundation of the identity of a nation and for its culture and for its tradition and for its heritage and for its education, for its survival. Please, this is the thesis we advocate, because it is founded in international conventions and in the Constitution of BiH, it is the fundamental human right of the Croatian people – to seek what it initiates The conclusion that someone decides in the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2735	Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2736	I am also sorry that Mrs. Majkić also said that today one, so far unknown, atmosphere is being introduced into this home, you know, both of these issues, and the issue of "Official List" and the question of this special channel, could also be introduced in another way into the procedure, not through the conclusion of the entire House, you know. It could have been through both the initiative and the Council of Ministers and... individual delegates, envoys, etc., however you want, not to insist on the decision of the entire House, but that's what it is, we're headed for that part. But I must express one dissension, that is, and perhaps the incorrectness that Mrs. Majkić showed when she said and gave one, in my opinion, quite incorrectly, not to say dangerous, the assessment that Bošnjak reject anything that Hrvat and Srbin suggest. Look, first of all, it's not true, second thing, we have to be here except that we're colleagues, which we know, what we're talking about both before and after the session, we have to be responsible, because every word that's been said is transmitted through the media and can be created by the wrong picture, you know. The fact that once the Croatian and Srbin Club revoted the Bošnjak klub, I should conclude that someone is working against the Bošnjak. You don't have to, you know. And I would never say that, even though there were cases like that and there could be another or third combination and it was happening in this work. But don't put it like that and say that Bošnjak reject everything that Srbin and Hrvat suggest. I don't think that's true and it's not correct here. And as for my own discussion and disagreement with your initiative, you or I have not listened or simply do not want to listen. I did not dispute your business allegations, the way you operate, for some failures of financial and all that you have stated here, and I clearly said, you know, that I can't even confirm it, I can't deny it, but I said for more formal reasons that "the Official Journal" has legal status, that we can change it completely, that we can change it in part, but I didn't enter the reasons that you cited for this initiative. And that's why it was important to listen anyway. I, I am against any and all abuses that may possibly occur in that institution and in any other institution. So, here I'd like to call on you to, perhaps, interrupt this debate about everything, to plead on the agenda. Here, normally, if there's more discussion, okay, but with these two questions we're not going to solve here, it's not, it's more conclusions, it's some 12 procedural issues that are just being delegated to some other organs that are essentially going to solve and measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2737	Replica, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2738	I have heard well, Mr. Tihić, what you have said, I am not a careless and irresponsible man who sleeps in the seats of the House, so he does not hear what is said. Just what you just said, I was looking for. I didn't make a proposal for a solution, so I sent it to the House and told you to plead. I am asking the Council of Ministers, who has been warned by the Finance and Budget Commission in the last term that it must regulate the legal status of the Official List, which reminds him of the Office for Audit. So everyone who dealt with the institution said - legal status must be resolved and it leads to a sunroof institution. No, so you're, you're against my initiative, not the solution I put on the table and I said, here's what I'm supposed to do, but I'm asking the Council of Ministers who, regardless of who was at the head of the Council of Ministers, were deafening the issue of the Official List. So, my initiative you're contesting. I know I can't take any more initiative, because I know I'll never get any consent from the Bosniak Club. And it's a devastating fact that leaves me with bitter taste.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2739	The word has Mr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2740	The debate over the conclusion proposed by Mr Filipović takes too long. We had a debate about content and we only came to the vote. And then, when the vote was held, a procedure was initiated before the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court said the conditions had not been met. And all we have left to do is vote. No longer to change the conclusion in the recommendation, which, if consistently interpreted what Mr. Rančić is saying were to be interpreted, then we would have to re-recommend to the Constitutional Court, I don't know what everything is. As chairman of the House of Peoples, I was given space from the Constitutional Court so that the procedure could end. This is: that delegates should be made aware of the predlog for a conclusion as it is. And I honestly interpret it and that it meets the conditions, because he is actually calling for the procedural application of the attitude, Article 9 of the Law on the Public TV System, and I would not go further, as far as I am concerned, in further discussion, because I think that this debate is over in due time and personally I think that the completely procedural conditions have been met that this conclusion can be voted on. As for the official messenger, I support the initiative to discuss it. And I know that we will have very different visions about the official messenger. This initiative is to put in charge of the Council of Ministers, not that we here are talking about defining the status of "The Official Messenger". We have an old out-of-date concept of "Official Messenger" in which there should be a business of 13 that maltenes should have its own printing works and then what in that context of confidentiality, I know this is not, in that context of confidentiality should exist as some particular company that works. We need a department here in the Assembly that will be responsible for publishing the “Official Messenger”. What printery? So we have tenders, so tomorrow, what one of our colleagues here said on the Internet and free of charge is going to be published, like in some other countries. Why do we need an official messenger as a company? What's his point? This is about publishing and authorising laws and other acts published by Parliament in a brand-new concept of information society, completely different, and not that classic we once had: what, a confidential document, and minors confidential people to question who work inside. So my proposal is to open the initiative, nothing more, and we'll have a chance to talk about the content later, and it's obvious now that if I were to go into content, there's a mass of things that aren't right. Well, it's impossible there's a system that works where the board members are seven years old. If it's me, if it's true to me they are. So it is then called the BiH institution, and BiH has nothing to do with the impact of setting up board members. Well, then we don't know which one, that I'm not going to go to those details now. So here is an initiative whose purpose is not to abolish but to define the "Official List" as BiH institutions, but to introduce order into the whole concept. This is how we have a company that manages 10 million, and the budget doesn't have anything. Although that, if it's a matter of national interest now who's going to be there anymore, then I don't really understand what we're talking about. And the content, if you have read carefully, of initiatives to define it as BiH's institution, that incomes are defined as the revenues of BiH's budget and nothing more. And if that's not as good as the proposal and it's only seen because it comes from this side as something problematic, then I don't know, and it's an initiative without a definitive, without a definitive determination. So my point of view is this, the statement of the conclusion that it remains as it is. And my proposal is to support the initiative, of course, the House will decide by voting on how it will decide. Thank you. First the lady, she can't until, first Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2741	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I am not to vote on this initiative to reject it or accept it. We have a point 9 on the agenda today. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on "The Official Journal of BiH". I think that Mrs Dušanka Majkić, if she agrees, this initiative can be discussed at that point in the agenda. Because the Law on "The Official Journal of BiH" was passed in 1997 and was amended in 2004, so it was adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly. In this law that we have today on the agenda under point 9 his proposal is MP Adem Huskić and he was adopted by the House of Representatives. He really states in the context of this law that the status of this "Official Journal of BiH" has not been resolved, that the Council of Ministers has taken over the rights of founders, but that it has never settled the issue of handling this institution and that it has never settled the issue of the organisation of the institution. So perhaps, when we consider this item of the agenda, we might be able to adopt some conclusions that it is going towards the Council of Ministers' borrowing that those issues that are not regulated by that law are regulated by the 1997 law and its 2004 amendments in a way that is best in the interest of the BiH state. 14 You know that before the war, we had an official messenger, an official newspaper, "The Official Journal of BiH", whose founder was the Assembly of the Republic of BiH. There's been a split, the RS has its official voice, we now have the "Official Messenger", the "Official Report of BiH", which, under the circumstances, announces not only BiH but also the Federation and the Canton. It's a question of our complex legislation in BiH. Of course, BiH must have powers in such an institution, and it does so by taking over the founder's rights by the Council of Ministers. However, it may not be disputed that the Council of Ministers may be in charge that those issues that are not regulated by law are regulated in a way that is in the interest of the BiH state, but that we are considering this under point 9 and I don't know why Mrs. Majkić insists on a special agenda point, because I don't see any reason for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2742	Sir, Mrs. Majkić just asked for a replica, so I'll give it to her. But before that, I would like to say that the Council of Ministers did not take over permanently but temporarily took over the role of founders so that the application of the "Official Messenger" law would not shut down. Because there was a situation back then where the official messenger would shut down. So the legal status of the official messenger is not resolved, believe me, well, I know that until the end, there are many, very many problems and it must be resolved in one correct way and, in this context, I thought the initiative was good, but I do not abuse the role of the chairman. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2743	I ask you, Mr. Tihić, that, as a gesture of good faith, accept this initiative that only means setting up the situation in certain areas in this country. Nothing will lose the SDA Club and any club of the people because they will accept that the Council of Ministers will begin to resolve one issue that has been dragging on so long. I'm really asking you to find an understanding of that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2744	Thank you very much. Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2745	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, guests, I appear without the intention of responding to individual statements and to the content of the debate so far, and already to something which may, perhaps indefinitely, not sufficiently specific or not sufficiently precise, as a tone to which I react, which has been introduced in this debate on points that are not so important at first sight and do not deserve a temperature, do not deserve this fire, do not deserve the terms which, in my court, are inappropriate, or do not deserve it. And as a contribution, let me say, to improve the atmosphere, that is, disabling the reasons for this kind of tone, I've come forward and don't mind what I'm using time. We're not even on the agenda yet, dots don't deserve this much debate, but they've come up for me, words and traits that deserve our reaction, our 15 questions so we can work normally and work in the way that I keep for us successful. In fact, I was personally surprised, not at the session where the debate was held on this conclusion of my colleague, on the proposal of my colleague Filipović, and today I listened to the reaction of my colleague Filipović to the appearance of my colleague Rančić, and I was surprised by the tone and, above all, with a few words of anger, nebulose which, since I know the language of my fellow Filipović and his sensitivity to the language, surprised me with those words on one side. On the other hand, it surprised me, to say the inconsistency of my fellow Filipović, not to mind such a characterisation, in terms of defence of something why we are all here. Or why I am truly honest not only as a representative, or delegate in the House of Peoples, but also as a man who believes that without the equality of the people who manifest themselves primarily through the equality of language, this country can hardly have a normal future. But fellow Filipović also spoke about it by transferring to us Bošnjak, i.e. the Bošnjak Klub, to dispute in some way the right to equality in the consumption of language rights along the way, congratulated the Serbian people on another public broadcaster and thus testified in fact that TV RS is a Serbian service, which would imply that TV Federation is Bosniak and Croatian, respectively, given the character of the conclusion that it is a bit more Bosniak than Croatian. I'm talking about inconsistency, or the possibility of such understanding. Later, the explanation only convinced me that this problem of the representation of the language of equal, not the way of equality that can be calculated, so to speak, measured, but in a way of equality that will satisfy the peoples, citizens, in fact the peoples and citizens as members of the people in our country are still too serious, too complicated, too sensitive to be able to solve the conclusion, let's say. Here, this is my opinion, because my colleague Filipović later confirmed to my colleague Rančić that it was not a national channel, but he did not deny his earlier statement by which the public service of the Serbian people was actually a service, which would therefore initiate what I had already said. It is that it is the service of the RS... which should be equally in service and language practices both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak and others. It's the same with the Federation services. Now, in that sense, only one small example at a time as an expression of my understanding of Hrvat rights, of course, of course, of language representation, etc. in the fact that a large number of Bošnjak consider the FTV as a public service much more represented Croatian than Bosnian. So, a large number of Hrvat... The Bošnjak has that opinion. Wrong opinion, you'll say. Let me just say it here, believe me, check it out. Along with this example, an example of this discussion between counterpart Majkić and counterpart Tihić. counterpart Tihić did not challenge the initiative to edit or redecorate relations, functions, the status of "The Official Messenger". On the contrary, he did not challenge the right to co-worker Majkić's initiative. He challenged the content of the proposal, the proposals,... which should be made binding, i.e. conclusions in the form of conclusions that should be binding on the Council of Ministers. Among other things, counterpart Ivanić also disputed in some way the fact that Tihić agreed with the initiative, that he did not challenge the initiative but disputed the content of the proposal that the Council of Ministers' actions are being held. The Council of Ministers is required, among other things, to build a new institution. So we have an institution, we have an institution, and it's understandable that it reacts this way, that it doesn't accept the contents of the initiative, that is, the conclusion that the Council of Ministers undertakes to work. 16 And now why am I reacting? I mean, the thing is clear, I get it because my colleague Majkić, we all have the right to have a little discussion, yeah, yeah, yeah, a little bit more important to give to our own initiatives and to be a little bit, here's to say, unsatisfactory when others don't accept them. But to the reactions of Tihić, she responds by saying, "I know I will never get support for any initiative from the Bošnjak again." Be careful, these categorical claims, this seizing of the right for me to think in the future as well is something that does not contribute to the atmosphere, or to the tone that should characterize the work in this home. We had a government that knew what we were thinking and what was at our own time, is whether, who even knew what we were going to think in the future. I appeal to my colleague, Majkić, to respect, for example, the reasons of my colleague Tihić, and to respect my need to have a critical relationship with each of her initiatives, as well as the initiatives of my fellow Bošnjak MPs, let's say I disagree with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2746	I'll give it to you sooner. At the request of the delegate club. How much, how much? Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2747	Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2748	Ten minutes break, this club of delegates of the Croatian people. And my suggestion is that you think until the break, we'll get to the bottom of the agenda, and I think we'll solve the problems. [[PAUZA]] I have one proposal, only I'm going to have to ask for an explanation of the Croatian People's Club for why they asked for a break. So I'm asking Mr. Jović to... Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2750	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome you, Vice President, distinguished fellow envoys and all present at this session. On behalf of the Croatian Club, I asked for a brief break, and I think that was the only possible thing at the time. In fact, it has been said all along that the problem of the conclusion, whether or not to enter into the metrics, and we spent an hour and a half of our time on the content of the Conclusion, not the inclusion or non-involvement of the agenda. I therefore invite you and ask you, after an hour and a half, to put to the vote the proposed agenda which, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, also proposes to the College. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2751	Thank you very much. I have no intention of giving the agenda to the vote because we're not giving it, he's in agreement. I can make a proposal from the Bosniak Club to remove the agenda from the vote and I intend to do so, as I intend to after that and put the proposal to be put to the vote to include Mrs. Majkić's initiative as, I will see, before these ratifications, the agenda point before ratification. That's right, I'll go through with it. I suggest we close the debate. I think we've said everything we have to say, each and every one of our own, unless someone of particular great interest has another and we approach the vote. There isn't. Thank you very much. So, you've got a harmonised agenda. I suggest we put Mr. Rančić's first proposal on behalf of... Ah, yes, in fact, it's Mrs. Majkić's first, you're right, Mrs. Majkić suggested the initiative first. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote for this initiative. You can vote: Mrs. Majkić's initiative. We'll do it again because there was, I'm sorry. We'll repeat the vote because it was, Mr. Rančić was mistakenly understood to vote on this initiative. Let's go again, I'm sorry. So get ready to vote. You can now vote on Mrs. Majkić's initiative to put it on the agenda. The vote is over, just to get... Nine voted "yes", five voted "against". As for entity, there are one-third of the delegates from the Federation of BiH and this initiative has received support and my proposal is that it be included then, just a second before the ratification, it's like the 15th point of the agenda, and that point 15 above will change one number above. We have a second proposal, Mr. Rančić's proposal to point 3. The vote on the conclusion is removed from the agenda. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Five "for", nine "against" -- no proposal, no majority. Moving to the first item of the agenda: 18 Ad. 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions The answer to the delegate's question came from delegates: Dušanka Majkić was asked at the 7th and 18th meeting of the People's House; Hilmo Neimarlija was asked at the 19th session; Drago Ljubičić was asked at the 17th session; Slobodan Šaraba was asked on the 12th and 16th session; Zoran Koprivica was asked on the 14th and 15th session. Is delegate Dušanka Majkić satisfied with the answer to the question asked at the 17th session?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2753	So, this is a question addressed to the Directorate for European Integrations and I can say that the Directorate has responded correctly to this, but the problem is that their position is in which Parliament should be involved in European integration in a more high-quality and faster way – they, in fact, do not have conversators, because here it says that it is a key role in coordinating Parliament's activities for European integration, but an initiative addressed to the chairman of the House of People and despite months of efforts we have failed to realise. So, to my question, they answered, but they answered me -- we can't tell you what this is about, because we don't have a conversation with you. That's not a good thing. Here and here I think that the initiative of the House of Nations should, as soon as possible, initiate a meeting with the Directorate for European Integration in order to prepare delegates for co-operation modes in relation to the harmonisation of legislation with the AKI communitre. So, the predstavnički of Representatives had a meeting, held with the Directorate for European Integration, and the House of Peoples sleeps a deep sleep when it comes to European integration. That's the first thing. The other two answers I received were related to national balance issues in two ministries, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Security. I really want to thank the Minister of Justice, I am sorry that he is not here, for the really content information that this ministry has done, and I want to say that I am very pleased with the fact that in this ministry not only is the respected national structure of the population according to the last census in BiH, but this balance is also recorded in the most significant positions, which is particularly interesting. I would like to thank the Ministry of Justice for showing by this application that there is no apparent discrimination, not only of the Serb people, but of none of the constituent peoples in BiH. So that's part of it, because there was a question addressed to two ministries. And as for the Ministry of Security, I am not satisfied with the answer for the reason that, on three pages as far as it has been delivered, a delegation issue has been prescribed in half of the page, members of the law have been prescribed, and half of the page shows the national structure, but only the managers of the Organisational Units of the Ministry of Security and its administrative organisations. So, since I am not satisfied, I will repeat the question: 19 'What is the national composition of all organisational units of the Ministry of Security, to name all jobs, and to qualify and national structure by job.' So, I'm not satisfied with the Ministry of Security's response to this request. It's about my pleasure and dissatisfaction on the issues asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2754	Thank you very much. The next statement I'd like to ask Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2755	I have referred two questions to the Federation of BiH government regarding pollution produced by the "Prevention" in High. I received an answer to the first question from the Ministry of Environment, which I was partly satisfied with, because they did not answer my question completely, "How did "Prevent" get an ecological license to work?" And on the second question -- why hasn't he done anything for years by the Federation and Canton inspection services for the pollution they produce -- I haven't received an answer, so I'm going to repeat the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2756	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubičić. Are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2757	Mr. Chairman and gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow delegates, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests and media representatives! First, as a delegate, I can also express my satisfaction that, in relation to, perhaps, some other colleagues who also referred delegate questions in a relatively short period of time, I have received an answer to my asked question, and on that side I am satisfied. But I'm not happy with what I found in this act. In this table, I am not satisfied with the national structure of employees in the Economic Planning Directorate. In fact, here you have seen for yourself: of 22 places, it is a new directorate, of 22 employees in this Directorate, I have examined it, and you can see for yourself, 14 is Bošnjak, five Srbin, one Hrvat and two others. I won't comment. So, here is only the director or director, so this directorship, from the order of the Croatian people. It's a little bit like this for me, I won't comment on it much either, but I want to mention, one of the assistant directors in the sector has pleaded as the others and the IT reference officer also the others. It's their right, I have nothing against it, I don't want to slow it down at all, but I'll be free to say, it's also Bošnjak for me, so if I look at this, I think this is 16 Bošnjak, five Srbin and one Hrvat. 20 We had a fine example of this now that Mrs Dušanka had just commented. Also, I would like that balance to be respected primarily in all BiH institutions, so that we can ask everyone else at other levels, so that I hope and expect, here, for that balance to be carried out in this direction. For example, a positive and good example, I repeat this again, which Mrs Dušanka cited, and I would like to see it respected in all BiH institutions, primarily in BiH institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2758	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba has remained in our debt: is he satisfied with the answers he received at the previous session, since he was not present.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2759	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will comment on one of the issues that I am not satisfied with, and through this question I will ask several other questions, and this is about the Ivanica border crossing. Namely, at one of the previous sessions, I launched an initiative and asked the Council of Ministers to approach the amendment of the Treaty on the Pretegorization of Border Crossings regarding this extremely significant border crossing and to this my delegate question was not answered, but I received one other startling answer and I want to say that the area of the Ivanica border crossing has been sold to natural persons. It stands, gentlemen, in this answer here and that is what is both astounding and alarming and astonishing, although the Mayor of the Municipality has denied it just once, but I sincerely want to say that I do not believe that answer and therefore I will repeat my question about the extremisation of the border crossing, and at the same time ask two other questions. - Is the land actually sold at the Ivanica border crossing? Because if what's written in response to the Council of Ministers, and I don't doubt it, so that answer is based on some documents, I'd like to make an insight into those documents. I'd really like to see it, because if this is true, then it's deeply, deeply worrying. And I also want to ask the question, if this is my answer - I get a positive answer: - When will the reconstruction, or the construction of an existing border crossing on Ivanica, begin? I ask the Council of Ministers to take this issue very seriously, given that it is an extremely important and important border crossing for BiH, for the Republic of Serbia, for that small part of the Federation and for the municipality of Trebinje, since this border crossing needs that part of BiH because if someone from Trebinj, from that part of Herzegovina, wants to transfer any goods to Dubrovnik, has to travel 200 km, instead of 25, how real is the distance. That is why my request and appeal is, if necessary, a request to the Council of Ministers to be involved in resolving this very big and important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2760	Thank you very much. 21 Mr. Koprivica!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2761	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and others present, I am pleased with the answers to the questions asked by the Council of Ministers and I have no comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2762	Thank you very much. Any new delegate questions? Mrs. Majkić, is there more? Mr. Rančić and Mr. Filipović. And I'm closing the reports for new questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2763	So I refer the question to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. I welcome the minister, this is the first session he attends, but indeed the current situation has forced me to ask this question. - The introduction of dual-use production control should be the last step in achieving full control over imports, exports and transit of weapons and military equipment to BiH. However, because of recent events that BiH is accused of also exporting arms and military equipment to Georgia, I ask that the following questions be answered: 1) Is the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in co-operation with the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of BiH able to carry out full supervision of imports, exports and transit of arms and military equipment to BiH? What are the most significant problems in this cooperation? 2) Has the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations completed the relevant sector for issuing export, import, arms and military equipment licences? How many people are employed in this sector? Whether or not the staff are educated for the application of a double list and the use of so-called "dual list". The track system? 3) Is the software so-called A 'trecker system' donated by the United States after an installation problem finally in use in all ministries? Is this system used for licensing? 4) A relatively small number of licences for dual-use products are observed. Is a small number of licences a reflection of the actual situation or are importers, or exporters, insufficiently satisfied with the obligation to license these products? What measures have been taken to complete the licensing of dual-use products? 22 5) In what extent does the Ministry of Foreign Trade exercise control over the implementation of the Law on the Import/Export of Arms and Military Equipment? At what intervals are certain economic operators monitored? 6) Is the Ministry of Foreign Trade conducting an unannounced inspection? How many of those inspections were there? Specify the individual sites and the results of inspections carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. And finally: 7) To what extent does the Ministry of Foreign Trade use the support of entity institutions to conduct controls on imports/exports and transit of arms and military equipment? I beg your answer on the written path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2764	Thank you very much. And I ask your question in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2765	I gave it to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2766	Okay. Mr. Rančić, your delegate question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2767	Thank you very much. Therefore, the Honorable Chairman, the Law on the settlement of liabilities on the basis of the old foreign savings account, published in "The Official Messenger of BiH" No. 28/06, 76/06 and 72/07, BiH and its institutions are required to undertake activities that will help savings... that have been spared by banks that are based outside BiH such as branches of the Ljubljanska Banka, Invest Banka and other foreign banks in BiH territory. My question is: - Why did the Council of Ministers do nothing to protect our citizens who had foreign savings in the branches of Ljubljana and Invest Bank and other foreign banks in BiH territory? Will the Council of Ministers also launch activities to protect the savings of the Ljubljanska and Invest Banka?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2768	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. And Mr Filipović stayed. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2769	Thank you very much. I would, unlike all previous parliamentary/delegate issues, refer to an urgent parliamentary issue, one appeal and cry for dissuasion due to the failure of the state body. I refer this issue to the Council of Ministers, the relevant ministries and the Central Election Commission – to make additional, maximum efforts so that 2,084 Hrvat of BiH citizens can choose and be elected in the upcoming local elections on October 5th 2008. If this would not be possible, the legality of the electoral process would be seriously injured, which is the responsibility of the Central Election Commission. And the European Convention on the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms would be violated, I think Protocol 12, and the Constitution of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2770	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the delegates' questions. We're going to the second item of the agenda, that's ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 19th and 20th sessions I'm the first one to argue with the 19. Any objections? There isn't. We can plead. You can approach the vote. You two can vote. Final vote. The minutes of the 19th session were unanimously adopted. Now we need to adopt the 20th session minutes. Are there any interested in the debate? There isn't. Prepare to vote. You can vote! Final vote: 14 "for". A unanimously adopted 20th-session record. We're going to the third point, that's "Ad." 3. Voting on the conclusion of delegates in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Mr Ilija Filipović
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2774	Thank you very much. So, from the Council of Ministers, we have received a bill on amendments and additions to the law which extends the deadline for the verification of old foreign exchange savings... by two months. Of course, they suggest to us, both at home and at home, that we consider this law under a reduced procedure, and as one of the main reasons in this explanation of the adoption of laws and procedures for the adoption of this law is to call for the conclusions of the Ad hoc temporary joint commission to determine the old foreign currency savings established by these two homes, and to the conclusions of the 2nd session of 19 March 2008. And it is true that in March we had this session, I am a member of this committee, there are still colleagues here who are members of this committee, but the reasons for the adoption of such a law and in this form mentioned in the Council of Ministers' Explanation are absolutely not true. They do not stand, if they were to respect this Ad hoc commission, and even these homes, they would, among other things, sit more often and in full capacity and stay here with us. But aside from that. The key reason, so we had our session in March 19th of 2008 and, if they respected the conclusions of this committee, they would, within the longest time in April, draft the text of the law and send it to the procedure, not to do so at the end of August, or here we have a debate on the procedure in September, and they are taking it out, right, on the basis of this commission. The second thing, if they had respected the Ad hoc commission, this temporary one, they would have respected other conclusions that are mentioned here and in another, is whether, in their conclusions from other sessions, but they only took it with tweezers like this, so in the way they like it and how they understand it and send it to us in 25 procedures, they send us into the law procedure. At this session I've discussed, as her member, and about changing this law and it stands in the record... Here, I can quote it, so I've concluded: 'That the state should level data and inform every citizen how much his foreign currency is savings. In this way, only dissatisfied citizens would start disputes." And I listed the information that they issued the certificates. So the state knows exactly how many old foreign exchange savings were in banks in 1991 and later and how much of it was spent. How much of it was spent, so we don't go into details.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2775	Mr. Rančić, this is more procedure now, just to see about the procedure first, and then we will.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2776	Well, I'm saying, these are the reasons why I'm against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2777	Against urgency.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2778	That's right. Because the reasons there are not true in the reasoning of this law and the reasons that they state why we should take urgent action. Verification is unnecessary, believe me. I can prove to you that the state, I say state, BiH institutions, then entity institutions, privatisation agencies know exactly how old foreign currency savings are. And I am responsibly saying that through the adoption of the law to Parliament, here you have seen the sixth, seventh, etc., etc., so here and now, this procedure of amending and supplementing Parliament is misleading to vote the law in the section which requires the verification of citizens' savings. It is unnecessary, it is bullying citizens and states if it wants its institutions to be fair to their citizens, based on the existing records and documentation it has, it can give assurance to every citizen how old foreign currency savings it has. This is harassing citizens in this way to resolve this issue. And that's why I'm against both urgency and this kind of law in total, and I've asked on this committee, and, please, let's go to an amendment to this law, but in a way that the state informs citizens how old foreign currency savings they have. Only those who feel otherwise have the evidence to do so should conduct appropriate actions. This is how we harass citizens, expose them to unnecessary costs, lead them to the possibility that for possible abuses related to old foreign exchange savings, due to death, for inheritance, for rewriting, for the ignorance of citizens, etc. So, for all these reasons, I'm against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2779	Thank you. I understand. Mr. Božo Rajić signed up, so Mrs. Majkić or you have a desire to hear the promoter, so you suggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2780	26 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2781	Mr. Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2782	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am also a member of this Ad hoc commission and I agree in that section that Mr. Rančić said that not all of our proposals to the Council of Ministers are contained in the amendments to this law. However, we have, in a whole series of knowledge that we have set out as the priority of this verification process, not unanimously, but most members of this committee thought that the citizens should be given an additional opportunity, after that verification cycle has been completed, to extend the deadline and that those who have changed their minds, who have reasons, who have missed out for any reason to be able to access the additional verification. And in that sense, I don't think the Council of Ministers has made a big mistake, as it suggests, we can discuss procedures, amendments and additions to the law in order to set a new deadline for extending verification. For a more complex procedure under the Law, I think it is not yet time, because this commission has not completed its work, there has been no data from those who gave us the primary task – how much foreign savings were in 1991 and 2007. When we have this, we will also have some proposals for a Council of Ministers in which we should intervene according to the law. I personally don't think that we should, without any great reason, refuse at least to carry out this intervention and give opportunity to those savings who want to accept the current solutions of the law so that they can verify old foreign exchange savings, which doesn't mean we're giving up on clearing, making it more acceptable and more conductive than it is today.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2783	Thank you very much. I remind you again, we're just discussing procedure today, not content itself. I can accept the arguments of content as reasons for or against procedure, but only procedure. Then he's just moving on. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2784	So this is the only thing that could be offered at this point. And there's no reason for the House not to vote, for this concession to be made by savings. So, I support everything Mr. Rajić said and the Serbian delegates' club will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2785	Thank you very much. Is there any more interest? There isn't. I suggest we make a statement then. So, we're only voting first on whether the law will be considered not by an emergency, I'm sorry, by a brief procedure, I apologize. 27 Prepare to vote. You can vote! It's a final vote. I know it's been a while, but I want to see exactly. "For" voted eight, "against" were three, three were "abstained". The law has a majority relative to the Federation delegates, "for" there were three, excuse me, "for" there were four. There's a need for a third. ......... The Council of Ministers' request for the law to be considered under a shortened procedure has been adopted. We're going to the fifth point, Ad. 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Classification of Activities in BiH under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 121. Rules of Procedure Therefore, there is a debate here whether the law will be considered by a brief procedure. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Classification Act under a shortened procedure. Is anyone picking up? He's not answering. Prepare for a plea. I remind you again that we are voting on the procedure. This is about a brief procedure again. You can vote! It's a final vote. This request received unanimous support from all delegates, so 14 "for". We're going to the sixth point, Ad. Six. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on administrative disputes (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2789	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2790	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2791	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2792	I'm asking a little service to check it out, because here's the thing, not the other way around, this is Mr. Neimarlija number nine. It's your place. I can find out that you did vote "yes," right? Yes, I can say then: this law was passed unanimously. Here, if you can see what's actually going on there in the service? If it isn't, you push it a little harder just in case. 29 We move to the eighth point: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax (first reading) – Proposer: Mladen IvaniIvanić The promoter is Mladen Ivanić. You've received the bill's proposal as well as the report from the committee in charge. The Commission did not accept the principles of the proposed law in accordance with Article 106. Rules of Procedure. The House shall be informed of the Commission’s report after it has received the reasons for the rapporteur’s report. Mrs. Majkić will file a report, and I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2794	Considering...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2795	Report, and I'll get right back to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2796	...yes, given that the speaker is the chairman of the House, I have a duty to say a few words, since after the debate was held, the Commission, with two votes "yes" and four votes "against", did not accept the principles of this law. Why? First, the Directorate for indirect taxation, on three sides of the densely typed text, explained why this proposal should not be accepted. She said at one point that experimentation is unnecessary for the application of fiscal mechanisms to address social issues. This is the opposite of the Commission's position set out in the BiH Progress Report of 16.11.2007. So, based on the opinion of the Direct Taxation Board, signed by Mr. Vrankić as finance minister, it is explicit that the current concept of one tax rate should be maintained until further notice. This led the Commission to vote on the principles of this law and therefore did not support it. I hope that the chairman of the House of Peoples will take into account these reasons that the Commission has been led.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2797	There's a word, is it you, Mr. Rančić? Mr. Rančić, then I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2798	As a member of the Budget and Finance Commission, I was, together with my colleague, the person who supported the putting into practice of this law. So, I voted for the principles because I felt that as MPs, as delegates, as a House, we should get a chance, we should get a chance to discuss this law, so if it's wrong, of course, we'll reject it, whether, we won't accept it 30. This is a priory rejected. It seems to me that the reasons for those who voted "against" are pre-election times, pre-election campaigns, are worried about this or that, and I think these reasons have been managed. The explanation that – unfortunately, I do not have in the materials here right now, I am not sure if you have – which we have received as members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance of this House, which we have received from the Ministry of Finance, was very unserious. Namely, it was on several pages. They've been repeating it for some time -- they need to do this analysis, so they're going to check this data, so they're going to collect these, so, etc., they're already saying several times what needs to be done, that it's not done, and eventually they're coming to the conclusion that they haven't gotten the conditions for a possible change of this law. I think that such arguments, for or against the adoption of a law, are inconclusive and I will pray, whether, in the future, all colleagues to make a little better and more effort to give reasons to any law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2799	Can I make the proposal first, then Mr. Rajić? I call on the House not to accept the Commission's report because there is no position in the Commission's report that has yet been binding on the Directorate for indirect taxation to come out and say how much it costs. We're talking by heart. It's been more than a year, and the Administration doesn't want to be dignified and to say, taking VAT rates to the amount of 5% for these and these products means so many and so many taxes less in this country. We don't have the basics. We have a repeat thesis there a year ago of which half is not true, which means that the greater benefit will be richer than the reduction in VAT rates which is nonsensical, we said last time that nonsensus, because the rich will not eat more bread than they eat. But it's there and things like that as much as you want, and not to say the Directorate that mentions the zero rate, and there's no zero rate in the bill. They copied the old story, didn't even look at this law, and the Commission takes it all as a key argument to reject the initiative. He writes the entire text about a zero rate. Well, for the respect of the Commission, I'd return and say shame on you either. Shame on you, it's no longer a zero-foot bill, but it's a typical example of how they ignore everything. To tell you the truth, that's all I'm suggesting. I didn't use this for an election campaign, nor did I mention, here comes the end, in the election campaign, and again I tell you, if this is the case, in three months I'm going to go out with the bill again, until one day I get the right argument why it's wrong. Not just giving political thesis and nothing, nothing more. I'm sorry, but here, that was mine, and now the word is Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2800	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm a member of the Committee...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2801	Adam, are you, too? Okay. Mr. Rajić. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2802	...I'm a member of the Committee and I heard my colleague and colleague Majkić talking about it and Rančić. I did not vote "against" on the Committee based on someone to profit from the election campaign. It would really be a political view of it all together, because I believe that the legislator, Mr Ivanić, was not motivated by these motives and so I did not define myself. I also did not define myself by what the Ministry of Finance wrote. So, as credible as their text is, as appropriate to the actual offer and how much he analyzed the offer, it's not that. My belief was that the proposed solutions are not complete and do not make a full procedure in the indirect taxation system and that they will not benefit on the social scene that I believe we all sincerely wish for. In fact, my position was, and then it remains and now, I publicly state it, that it should be entered into the root reform of relations, into a thorough review of the VAT law, regardless of what some will say is difficult and impossible, but we cannot ignore the fact that the position of the Directorate for indirect taxation and the relevant international financial institutions that have been going towards us, in some ways, do not oblige us to think about the consequences of introducing the rate. Many of us have feared both the public and the Committee, we fear that there will be manipulations of these rates differentiated and that this will not end with socially endangered layers but with traders. Now, these are the reasons, it doesn't have to mean that the reasons are well measured, but I'm in favour of an all-out approach. Perhaps what you're saying, you mention Mr. Ivanic, in two or three months when this all goes through together, that we go into one serious deep analysis and change of the VAT law to achieve goals that are certainly not here to be underestimated, and that you sent and sent by some other promoters earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2803	Thank you very much. Mr Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2804	Oh, here, let me explain my point of view. You all know that I was against the first proposal that meant zero, because shutting down someone from the tax system is very dangerous. It's born into something you're not following, are you? For the differentiated rate, I did, and I voted with Rančić, so not for this Commission position, but for the other one. And now I will support, so I will be against the Commission's position for that reason, if you remember, I mean this relationship between the Board of Direct Taxation and us, in the least, can be taken to the one – we are here in this country, come on Alija, there's more armies! They, anything we get out of here, hide there, here I won't go far, remember that proposal for a law amending the Customs Tariff Act. So as not to sign this Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is trees, rocks and lose income, the state fails, this, what is now, which does not fail. Now we don't have customs again, I don't have any customs anymore. So this relationship with them, I would punish, in this way, this thing that I was talking about. So, to be against the Commission's position, let them come up with an argument on how much this 32 state will cost, so if it's really going to be what's irreparable, and I'll be against, against such a rate or provoke a slightly higher rate, that second rate, etc. Now I have no argument to say, this is no good! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2805	Thank you very much. Are there any more interested? Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2806	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really believe that the Commission's position is justified. I'm sorry there's no one in front of the Ministry to give us an additional explanation of the reasons why this VAT bill should not be adopted. Also, I think that the debates that we have today, not only in this agenda point but also in some previous ones we've had, would not have had a current like this, one that none of us certainly wants here to be in such a single tone if they weren't in front of us that a few of the predecessors talked about. I do believe that I also ask all present colleagues not to use this pay phone as a single public hearing. Fortunately, the television broadcast is not direct, it does not exist from this session, so on the other hand we may be a little bit spared by us who are active participants in this meeting and remain present for certain promotions of political parties and individual ideas. I really think I suggest and ask all those present to refrain from certain comments that create only certain tensions that do not contribute to any of us. Also, I repeat my position and position of the SNSD Club that we are in favour, we support this Commission position in terms of... The VAT law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2807	Now I must give myself a replica to Mr. Koprivica. I have a replica. Well, I didn't mention this topic at all in the election campaign. I asked the Commission – delay after the election and collect the position of the Management Board. I didn't mention the word, and don't put up with me doing it for the election, the campaign, I didn't mention the word. Find one quote in the last 15 days in all these media outlets, and you'll see that I didn't mention it. Just so you wouldn't be the story of the election campaign. And that's you, that's your thesis, unnecessary, absolutely unnecessary. This is one proposal I've been talking about for over a year and a half on various occasions. And yet in three months, until I get the position of the indirect tax administration with an analysis of how much it costs and why it can't, except for the flat-rate flats they give. And I'm not really gonna give up, and I'm gonna bore you all while my term is over. Whenever I get a parliamentary opportunity, I'm going to put this proposal together until I finally get from management how much it costs to bring it down from 17 to 5%. And I think I deserve it as a delegate, if nothing else. I can say the most stupid thing, but at least let them write on paper that it's stupid and it costs so much that the whole country will fall for those reasons. And it absolutely doesn't matter. I wouldn't be on the agenda of this session at all today. I asked the Commission to leave the plea. The commission put on, 33 went procedurally just like that and brought it itself that we were talking about this today, and it wasn't my request. Mine was a request - after the election. As you can see, there are no journalists, therefore, especially this is a reason not to say that this is something about the election. I'm sorry. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I did, but someone else did. Majkićka... I'm sorry, Dušanka, I apologize, Sulejman was the first. Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2809	Well, you see, like this, I think the Commission's position is well balanced. Perhaps not sufficiently reasoned, perhaps there is no answer to these questions that delegates expected, among other things, that Mr Ivanić, as a proposer, is asking for an account – how much less income will be expected, etc. But Mr. Rajić is right when he says that the matter of differentiated rates should be addressed in a whole way,... perhaps, and another time, and not this month, we do not need us now, because we are angry at the Directorate for indirect taxation for not giving a good explanation, to go with the adoption of some legal solutions by heart, because just as there are no arguments about how much it will reduce, that is certainly why we cannot even vote for such a law. So I agree with this Commission opinion... not because it doesn't need to introduce a differentiated rate. I think it should be introduced for some other products, but let's leave it for the best, for next year. Let's see how income is going to be this year, and given the special fact that customs duties have been abolished, that there will be one reduction in income, how this can be reflected in public spending and everything else. I think it would be more realistic, in this case, to accept the Commission's position than to go with this proposal. Normally, Mr. Ivanić is right, we all have the right to refer the bill later, eventually, to the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2810	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2811	Just for a little while. I'm sure any party would love to have such a benefit based on the passing of a law like this, and I'm sure you, Mr. Ivanić, would care very much about it, as I would care if it were such a proposal. But there are two arguments: first of all, the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement has led to a reduction or elimination of certain customs rates, and we do not know how this will affect BiH's budget. First serious argument. And the other thing: without the consent of the indirect taxation board, in accordance with the Law on the Administration of indirect taxation, we can't make any decision behind which they don't stand, because at that time they were about afraid, when the law was passed, and you were at one rate, then 34 was voted because they were afraid that quickly each party would find a way to try, so Mr Lagumdžija has tried ten times, the SDS is countless times and so on. So, at this point, it is extremely irrational to adopt such a law, not expecting, at all, to think about what, what consequences will leave these tax rates that we have lost so far within the BiH budget. So I ask you to support the Commission's position.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2812	I'm the chairman, so I won't abuse this... Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2813	:Here, for a long time this time I have been working in this Parliament's assembly we rarely touch these questions which you, the President, too, have, through this incentive to think about the situation in our social community. I must immediately determine that I will be and support the proposal of our committee and at the same time consolidate some, from my experience, facts, so here's the thing, I apologize for being personal when I talk about it. This year in the spring, I planted 14 dulms of cereal. That cost me 2,700 marks. When I took off the grain, I handed it over to the mill and charged 1,100. I lost 1,600 marks for working my own country and trying not to grow into weeds, so it wouldn't be turned into a forest. I could sit at home, do nothing and get three tons of grain to bring me someone. I just don't know who would drive him and who's more interested in doing it that way. Why I wanted to illustrate with this example what I'm about to say, which is that we have to deal with all these issues in haste in one package and not focus on just one small number of these questions. If we don't, I don't know if there are any items left that we won't buy from imports in BiH. There is not one element that would stimulate my neighbor, I will no longer be, to be understood, anything to stimulate the country, but as people responsible, in responsible places, we must one day, and very soon, all of these problems concerning tax rates, concerning VAT, concerning subsidies, concerning imports, put on the table, and respond, if we think to answer our message as responsible politicians during the time that we are in power.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2814	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba yet, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2815	I just wanted, Mr. Chairman, to say two sentences. I don't think it's appropriate to comment Mr. Koprivica when he talks about this law in this way, and about the upcoming elections, for one basic reason the SDS launched an initiative related to this law a year and a half ago when absolutely no elections were discussed. I think Mr Ivanić's proposal, which was only repeated and 35 were discussed several months ago, so when there was no story of the elections, and now I don't hear that in any place and at any given time, and about the upcoming events that relate to October 5th, talk about this topic. So these two stories don't have to be connected. It's a law that deserves attention and that is, in any case, realistic and necessary in this procedure at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2816	Thank you very much. I will refrain from further comments on this subject. I would like to propose that we make a statement on the Commission's report. I remind you that by voting for the Commission's report, this means that practically this law is falling, and by voting against it, it is returning to the Commission for review. Prepare to vote. You can vote! "For" the report voted eight, "against" voted three, two were "abstained". From Federation Five there were "yes", the RS three were "for", there was one third, a half majority of both entities, thus the Commission's report was adopted, which means that the bill fell. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's Ad. Nine. Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the "Official Messenger of BiH" (first reading) – Proposer: House of Representatives I remind you this is the first reading of this law. First there is a debate on necessity and principles. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2818	So today we have a law that, if we go into essence or meritung, we see that it's about one hasty, speed, and no adoption analysis. What would it mean to pass a law like this? First of all, I want to say that on this first page of the proposal, so there are two fundamental mistakes in the law itself. At the first point is a mistake – the institution we are talking about is not called "the Official Messenger", but is called "the Official Journal" and "the Official Journal" issued "the Official Messenger". Therefore, both points 1. and 2. instead of "the Official Messenger" should read "the Official List". The other thing that stands is about the Explanation in which it is said, so what it contains, what the law contains,... now says, harmlessly indeed, a harmless proposal: 'The content of "The Official Messenger of BiH" from Article 5 of this Law is published on the website and is free of charge to the public." What does 36 mean? Here in the context of the proposal, it is said that "the Official Messenger" should be placed on the internet and allowed an unlimited number of BiH citizens and the public to have a smooth access to these contents and, among other things, I don't know, to improve information, etc. Now I want to comment on what, in fact, those are the things that the promoter has lost sight of. First, the Public Enterprise of the Newspaper is a company that generates revenue based on the sale of its services, so the publication of the "Official Messenger" on the website "Official List". That's his job, here's the director as far as I can see. If we accept the Bill's proposal as set out here, the Official Journal remains without income, so there is no, there is no institution, 48-49 employees, as busy as they are now, they remain without income, without the possibility of organising themselves differently, because we were just talking about having an unresolved legal status. It is known that some countries have been arranged to deliver the “Official Journal, ” that is, the “Official Journal” or “Official Messenger,” free of charge to individual addresses. Some only deliver to parliamentarians, meaning access to the Official List website only for parliamentarians or to deliver it to everyone and the printed 'Official List-Publisher' so that they can deliver it to any address and the state funds it. Introducing the obligation that everyone, not only means liquids, but all of the current official messengers are placed on the website means that no one pays anything anymore, it's free for everyone. There's no way people can make you money, they can't earn their wages without talking about printing newspapers. In addition, when it comes to internet use, press-clipping which we all get to our addresses benefits only nine people inside, within 57 MPs and delegates. All the other addresses are buried. So it would be good for nine people to exist but destroy the institution to achieve that we all have free official papers! I don't think you should. And there's one more thing to say. Here is a solution... for the "Official Messenger", and nothing to say about these other two, two newspapers published, what about the "Official Journal of the Federation" issued in 6,195 and the "Official Journal of Canton of Sarajevo" published in 1,352. So, please, I think the law is absolutely unprepared, that it's done quickly, quickly, and I declare that the Club of the delegates of the Serbian people cannot accept such a law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2819	Any further interested? Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2820	... Mrs. Majkić. [[no microphone turned on]] When it comes to delivering information such as press-clipping to MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly, I must say that from 57 to nine it receives this information because the other addresses are buried. If someone didn't understand what it meant, it means that... the other delegates and MPs don't read their e-mails, it means they've been buried with e-mails and it's impossible to send them that. Well, this information isn't accurate. I open my e-mail every morning, read everything on that e-mail, and no one ever offered to send me a press-clicking on my e-mail address, there. Well, here it is, Mrs. 37 Majkić is all funny. Whatever we say, she thinks it's funny. I really don't know what's so comical about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2821	Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2822	We'll leave when the session is over and we'll sit behind the computer... the press-clipping that answered the Parliamentary Assembly to deliver to everyone, arriving at all e-mail addresses. Now it is 85% on state officials working in Parliament and only nine MPs and delegates, Mrs. Čolo. Now, when it's over, we'll go take a look. So those addresses that aren't being used are buried and there's no access to them, so I can't, they don't send them anymore because no one's opening them. So I'm not talking in my head. And finally, this agenda point isn't about how many MPs and delegates, but I'm talking about a point you shouldn't accept because it's this fastball.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2823	The Law on “the Official Messenger ”?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2824	But so I don't have to stay in Mrs. Čolo's debt.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2825	But, please, don't make me ask now what kind of system that can't have a regular, regular e-mail so you can get 120 messages, but you just have to have a system that's limited by the number of messages. So you try to get in from the world, and you can't get in from the world to the end. But let's not get into that debate. Here is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the "Official Messenger", please. Mrs. Čolo, did you want more or will you give up?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2826	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2827	She gave up on the next one. Okay, is there any more interest or should we approach the vote? We are now discussing the principles of this law. You have an attitude on one side, the other. No more interest. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. You can vote! Seven "for", four "against", three delegates again, if one is not there, did not vote; "for" six from the Federation, one from the RS. There is no entity majority and this law has no majority. 38 We approach the second round of voting, which says that at least two thirds must be "against". So again, please state the law in the same way as before. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well I said, well, I didn't... I'm sorry. Get ready, get ready to vote. You can vote! In the second round, "for" the law voted six, "against" six, two "abstained". As for the majority, "against" is four, that's two-thirds, the condition has been met. This law didn't pass in the first reading. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Policy Act (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2830	... equipment to be placed in free circulation for, or civil protection to remove the threat of fire and so on. [[no microphone turned on]] 25. 6th, the Ministry sent a law, or law, that was, to us on 26th. 6th and sight, therefore, of fire, on the eve of the summer when angry fires are required to be considered under the basic legislative procedure. That we're going to get a gift of equipment to put out fires, that we're going to introduce equipment without this country seeing how many thousands of fires we've had, so Ministry 25. 6. delivers the law, and according to the basic legislative procedure. It's 17. 9, the fires are over, the time is over, and today we're talking about whether this law should be passed or not. First question: What is the responsibility of the ministry when it had a decision by the Management Board saying we agree on the Amendments and Supplements Act on Customs Policy. So the board of directors gave consent. The position of the Directorate for European Integration, he says, that the subject is not regulated by national law, that the items are regulated... by legislation, so don't wait – do. 39 We had every reason to declare it as soon as possible, immediately at the first session, before going on vacation, that law was passed. And we've been waiting for the ninth month. And all these fires that happened, let them go directly to the account, that is, to the responsibility of the competent ministry – here, the minister was this morning, gone – and Parliament that did not bring this by emergency procedure. That's my attitude on this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2831	Thank you very much. I have a feeling there are people here from the D.O.D. As far as I understand it, who's responsible for, is this part, there they are.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2832	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2833	Okay, it's not. Any other interested in the debate? There isn't, is there? There is. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2834	As Mrs. Majkić said, the law has entered Parliament's procedure 26. Six. So, we had until vacations a month and a few days, and we had vacations, and we could sit in August, and no one stopped us from passing this law, if it's urgent. We could also express ourselves on the procedure to follow a brief or urgent procedure, and no one prevented us from doing so. Therefore, I do not think that only the competent ministry is responsible because today this law is in the process, but that it has our responsibilities as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2835	Thank you very much. I suggest we conclude the debate and turn to the plea about this law to bring it, at least, five minutes early. Prepare to vote. You can vote! It's a final vote. The law has got the required majority. 11 "yes", no one "against", no one "abstained", thus the law was adopted in the first reading. 40 We move to point 11, that's "Ad." 11. The Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2007. You've received the Annual Report. The House of Representatives did not take note of the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Are there any interested in the debate? If he doesn't, my suggestion is... Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2837	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We received a report a few months ago on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2007. A comprehensive material that, in principle, depicts what was current in 2007 when it comes to the work and operation of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. It is evident that there are several questions in this report that I would specifically refer to, and that is, above all, the question of old court disputes that have crossed the figure over a million cases, which is really alarming. This is one huge number of cases that are in front of our courts despite the facts, meaning that justice reform has been carried out despite the fact that everything in this system is working much better than it was before. However, we have one situation that a vast number of cases simply burys our courts. Now the question is how to overcome this problem and what is the exit strategy in all this story. When you look at the structure of these objects a little bit more closely, you can conclude that one vast majority of these objects refer to municipal services, which means one particular question. And I'm interested in how, in some way, in the further time that we have before us, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council has a strategy, how do you solve these issues and these matters, given their number? I'm also interested in some other issues that are current, when it comes to this report, which is, above all, the issue of the processing of war crimes. Indeed, one difficult question that we have talked about countless times on the Constitutional Commission, at numerous other meetings where we have discussed this issue, and indeed there is dissatisfaction repeatedly expressed by both the individual people and the people to whom I belong – that, when it comes to the processing of war crimes, in recent times before the Court of Justice of BiH and the Prosecutor's Office is actually slow, that certain cases are not treated in the same way, and that there are countless objections that I also point out at this time. In all this talk, when it comes to the work of the VSTV for the past year and the complete judicial system, I would also suggest a few conclusions in this regard. They are similar to the conclusions recently discussed in his session by the House of Representatives. First of all, I would like to charge the High Court and Prosecutor's Council for the further direction of judicial reform to address 41 issues of urgency in all courts and prosecutors at all levels of government and that within which this dom would, eventually, determine this House's report. I would also suggest that at the most recent time, the issue of the staffing of courts and prosecutors in BiH should be considered seriously, given that there are numerous remarks and many problems, when it comes to the staffing of these institutions. I would also point out the issue of amending the Law on the salaries of judges and prosecutors because it is evident that there is a particular problem on this issue, which is not sufficiently resolved. Finally, I would particularly like to raise the issue of war crimes prosecution, where I would ask the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council that all BiH courts have the same treatment, especially when it comes to war crimes trials. I would therefore suggest that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, within 60 days, propose to the BiH Parliament a strategy to resolve war crimes cases. When it comes to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council's Report for the past year, for these reasons I've been talking about, we can't support this report, although it is quite comprehensive, it contains really many open questions that could be discussed for a long and long time. I think certain shifts have been made but we cannot be satisfied with these shifts in principle and therefore we cannot accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2838	Thank you. Alma Čolo, then Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2839	Well, believe me, this finding that the predstavnički of Representatives didn't take this report into account. I don't know what that means. What does that mean? You get the report, you read it, you discuss it at the House of Representatives session, and then you say you didn't receive it. I really don't know. In my opinion, I think we should consider the moderation, since the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council does not specify the adoption of this report by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I know what it means to accept the report or refuse the report, but really, we should also think about the modality, how if we don't accept or reject this report, what other way to plead on this report. In my opinion, the finding that we didn't take it into knowledge is really, somehow I don't know, I'd say inappropriate, even if I wasn't giving a little stricter grades. I have some remarks on this report and I'd like to say them. They have some references here. I don't know who those recommendations are. The High Court and Prosecutor's Council is filing a report, we're considering it here, they're making recommendations, now who's going to decide on these recommendations? On page 29, it is the last recommendation: that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council should have the authority to propose the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of BiH, thus ensuring a transparent procedure and proposing candidates from an independent judicial regulator. 42 I have done a comparative analysis of how judges of constitutional courts are elected in all democratic countries in Europe. I couldn't find anywhere that the judges of a single state's constitutional court were elected by an independent body. In some countries, almost all judges are elected sovereign, president of the state. In a large number of countries, a certain percentage of judges, inconsistencies, also elects the president of the state. It is possible for Parliament to appoint a number of judges. With us, the issue is regulated by the BiH Constitution. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has usurped jurisdiction when it comes to entity constitutional courts, and judges of entity constitutional courts are elected on the basis of their proposal. If they do not make a proposal, such a person, regardless of the appropriate procedure in the entity parliaments that appoint them, cannot be elected Judge of the Constitutional Court. I'm not, of course, for politicizing the Constitutional Court as the most important court in a country, but I'm not even that the High Court and Judiciary Council does it. We now have the Constitution of BiH, when we change it and if we change the procedure for the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, then I am in favour of selecting the judges of the Constitutional Court under the provisions of the Constitution, so I do not know who will decide on this recommendation given by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. The second thing that, in my opinion, is a bit of a problem in this report is the national structure by courts and prosecutors in BiH. They here say they cannot fully respect the national structure, which is also a constitutional obligation under the Constitution of the Federation and under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and those provisions of the Constitution stemmed from the implementation of the Decision on the constitutionality of the people, the Third Partial Decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court of 2000 -- they are obliged to respect the institution of equal representation of the people and others in public institutions. Public institutions are also BiH courts. We really have a national structure here that partially satisfies the national structure that was according to the 1991 census, but we have imbalances in both the Federation and the RS; when it comes to the Federation, members of the Serb people; in the RS, when it comes to members of the Bosniak and Croatian peoples. I understand that this cannot be corrected in due course but, behold, I think that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council should do more to encourage some incentive measures by people who want to go to work from the Federation to RS to encourage them to go there, and also those from the RS to come to the Federation because in this way they would surely ensure that the principle of independence that the international community and we are here. And when it comes to the national structure, there are no data on the national structure in the leading positions anywhere. We now have the situation that the state prosecutor is a Srbin, federal prosecutor, cantonal prosecutor in the Sarajevo capital in Canton of Sarajevo, we have the situation that the Bošnjak is the President of the Supreme Court, the President of the BiH Court and the President of the Cantonal Court in Sarajevo. We don't have any Hrvat in those positions that I think are so crucial. There's no national structure here. I'd like to see her. They say they don't have enough qualified personnel. I can't believe there's no qualified prosecutor in Sarajevo who could replace the current prosecutor with a five-year-old, Srbin mandate. And what is significant to me, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has also been established to ensure an independent, professional and efficient judiciary. Do they really pick the best frames? That's what I'm interested in. I did this job and I was very unhappy when I had to leave the judiciary because I think that call is very nice and can help everyone in this country feel 43 better and safer. Do they really choose the most professional personnel and do these personnel provide us with safe life in the entire BiH area? The number of pending cases, the number of crimes recorded in some major cities, the fear of people of this crime, do not say in favour of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council having responded to its task. I know that if any of these people sit here, or from the international community, any such discussion will be seen as a blow to an independent judiciary. I think that the legislative, executive power, as separate segments of government, separate from the judicial authority, have the right to know why the proceedings take so long and why crime is growing enormously, why this rate of nominality does not fall in BiH. We have the right to know, because if it comes, and we already have proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, most of all under Article 6. The European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms relating to the longevity of the procedure is the right to a fair trial. We have these procedures that are going up. If the European Court of Human Rights determines its rulings that BiH courts have violated the right to a fair procedure because the procedure has been unreasonablely long, this state will pay compensation to those persons who have been prosecuted and the proceedings have lasted unreasonablely long. Also in the EU Progress Report, we have very much acquittal judgments. You know that all the people who have been processed, and have been released by power, have the right to compensation for damages. This damage implies that their material damage (paying lawyers, lawyers' teams, all the costs of coming to trial) and paying certain immaterial damages (... destroying their reputation in society, making it impossible to apply to certain positions), and these proceedings take several years and these are huge amounts of money that this country will have to pay. And I'm interested as someone who participates in the legislative authority, so why doesn't the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council answer the question of the efficiency of the work of the courts? They here say that the number of cases has been reduced, that the number of cases is now somewhat unsolved around 600,000. We have a progress report that's 2 million, but 2 million is not a negligible number, and that's the number by which we settle in countries with the largest number of pending court cases in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2840	Thank you very much. Mr. Rajić, then Mr. Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2841	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, colleagues! My kolegica Čolo took away part of my motive for reporting for discussion. With a completely natural, logical question, we have not heard the explanation why the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has not received this report. If there are some serious reasons for this, then it would be good if we as the second home of that Parliament knew. And to me it's the square of the circle, I don't understand what it means if we're not authorized to adopt reports, so we can't adopt or reject it, then it's a kind of message, we don't take it to the knowledge, and we leave one of those broad, extremely important social, political, social and any other issues that the justice system contains aside. What we want is what kind of message we send if we say that we will neither receive this report to the knowledge nor that we will, without fear, get the qualification of pressure on the courts to express our views on how this institution is judicial as a whole, especially the High 44 Judicial and Judicial Council is doing and what we are proposing as a legislative body or as part of a legislative body to launch these processes, to gain efficiency. So, I really don't know when I need to determine myself before the vote, whether I'm going to follow the logic of my colleagues from the House of Representatives and say that I'm not going to take it into account, and it's my business, or I'm going to say that I've received knowledge without knowing the consequences of what I said I was getting knowledge. At least two or three reasons Mrs. Čolo spoke of were encouraging reasons to consider how we would treat this issue. It said in the debate that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH has usurped some constitutional rights belonging to entities. Honestly, I say, it's not my fault, but I'm surprised that the highest court instance can usurp something that's unconstitutional, and that we, as Parliament, are now saying, here we won't even accept knowledge and say that we have a negative attitude or attitude towards such practice and some other issues. Secondly, they are said to propose here in a series of measures and measures to take yet, I will not say and use the word'usurp', but to assume another jurisdiction that is not in line with European, constitutional and legal traditions, or democratic traditions, that they enter the process of selecting judges of constitutional courts. Who will decide that, because it is none of our business as Parliament. There are other reasons, so here are these really pitiical explanations and handwashing, you know we can't balance an extremely important area of life in the country, like the national structure of people in that judicial system because it's not in Sarajevo. Well, for God's sake, brother, it's not BiH Sarajevo. Sarajevo is only the capital of BiH. So any candidate who meets the formal and other additional conditions for the exercise of judicial duty, prosecutorial or judicial duties, can come from any part of BiH. And to limit the fact that there is no such thing as Sarajevo, there is indeed one completely unusable answer, an incorrect answer. Not to mention the number of cases, that we are not talking about differentiated access to justice, when it comes to the treatment of appropriate forms of violations of legality, from the mildest to the most difficult, but I would really like to say today about this, at least, we come to one point of view that what we have received has given us a lot of information, that with a large number of procedures, effects and methods of work we do not agree with. We do not drink to the judiciary nor do we remember it, but we demand its efficiency and its behaviour in accordance with constitutional standards and with the expectations of citizens in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2842	Thank you very much. Mr Ivo Miro Jović, then Mrs. Majkić. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2843	Thank you very much. I only wanted to find a distinguished representative, i.e. Ambassador Čolo, who was said that Hrvat were not adequately represented in the RS, and as in the Federation they were. I must say it's a tragic number... 45
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2844	I didn't understand it that way, but it doesn't matter. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2845	:... that Bošnjak, Bošnjak are threatened in this part and Hrvat in RS, and Srbin in the Federation. So I just wanted to see that the number of prosecutors and judges in the Federation of Serbs is almost the same as the Hrvat.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2846	I'm a little different, I've experienced a little different intervention of Mrs. Čolo who said that the Hrvat don't have adequate and listed examples in Sarajevo, if I understand correctly, generally as an example. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2847	: Dear President, we will have the recording and I interpret literally as the colleague said – Hrvat and Bošnjak in RS and Srbin in the Federation. That's it, I'm just saying, Hrvat in the Federation and in the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2848	Thank you very much. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2849	I asked in courts and cantonal prosecutions. So 10 cantonal courts and prosecutors have a total of 159 Bošnjak, that's 55.79%; there are 65 Hrvat, that's 22.81%; and there are 50 Srbin, that's 17.54%. The Hrvat has more than Srbin. That's why I said the Srbin were threatened here. That's a total of 10, here you have on page 123.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2850	Thank you very much. Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2851	: I'd just like to remind you, it's about two entities. In RS look at the structure, there is 96, dear colleague, and the Hrvat is 8, 96 Srbin. Just a minute, then be patient, I didn't think I'd be half-liminal, but if we play numbers, on one side, in RS we have 70-80% and 10 percent of Hrvat, not 10%, 4%, 6% in municipal prosecutors and courts. And in the Federation, the almost balanced relationship between Srbin and Hrvat. That's what this is about. So on one side we have an enormously different one, and on one side almost balanced. When you add it all together, it says, it makes sense for you to have 65 in the Federation as Hrvat, and 50 Srbin in RS to be 100 Srbin and... The Hrvat. I'm saying, the Federation doesn't have 46 national structures today, nor did it have before the war in such a relationship. Therefore, the threat of Hrvat is in both the Federation and RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2852	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2853	Two sentences to say. So, we have received the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council for 2007 on the subject. So we don't adopt it. We're taking him into knowledge. Now, there are people who want to say they disagree with that report, so it seems to them to agree. I have to say on behalf of our club that we can't support it, or we won't know because we don't have another mechanism. It looks stupid, but we don't have another mechanism. So we disagree with this report, we can't accept it because we're not in a position to accept it, and that's why we can't, and that's why the House of Representatives didn't accept it, because our club didn't agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2854	Ivanic. My opinion is, my personal opinion is that this report should be taken into account because he, whether he accepts or does not accept, will not change anything, believe me. He needs to be taken into account, and these topics that have been discussed, I suggest that the House of Nations conclude that it wants to talk and speak openly about these issues and the state of reform and about this war crimes trial and a whole series of problems that are certainly hanging over his head. But I think that we as the House of Nations will be unserious if we do not take into account something that we have received, because we have read, discussed, spoken, and by law. I understand the need for protest, I hope that next year I can say everything I think about saying, and I hope there will be opportunities. But anyway, I want to say that I think it's time that we respect ourselves and get to know each other with all these reserves, because we read it because we saw it, because we've met up with what the High Court and Prosecutor's Council thinks. My opinion is that neither the world will fail unless we accept it nor accept it, but we have read it, we have seen it, we do not adopt it or we do not adopt it. There are protests... and to end this point, to bring an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2855	Thank you, Mr. Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2856	First Mr. Jović, then Mr. Neimarlija. 47 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2857	:... because I am in charge of the Constitutional Commission to be a rapporteur on this point, that we on this commission have taken note and suggested that the House also take note because it must be accepted that we rarely receive this report methodologically, qualityly processed, on all grounds clearly. The other thing is we're talking about what's bothering us. The report is correct and quality. And these problems that we are talking about, we need to influence them and change them through the times ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2858	Thank you very much. Mr. Neimarlija. I hope he doesn't pause after your speech. I'm kidding.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2859	I hope so too because my colleague Jović just said from what I was about to say. They're wondering why there's no representative of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council here. He was with us on the Commission, and he explained everything, and he gave answers to our questions, and he explained all the vague places, and it probably helped to make it easier for me, to put it that way, to take this report into account. And I thought I'd say, to support, once again, President Ivanić took away my words in the sense that I really don't understand it, it can't be in my head that they haven't received knowledge at all, that means they haven't considered it at all, that they haven't done this at all. However, since they were, of course, engaged and I support therefore the preeminent colleague, Čolo, to seek a happier solution to the relationship against such acts. Whether or not we accept them, but received or did not take note of them, and it is assumed that receiving knowledge implies taking an active, so to speak, relationship or formulating views against the work of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. Otherwise, the report as a report, as a text, is very well done. He's a very nice piece of work. However, we are not satisfied with some aspects of work, with some segments of work, and with that I have a really well-intentioned need and I want it to be understood that way. Koleginica Čolo, when she spoke of this national non-balance, took examples, and it seems to me that the chairman, as I understood, understood that she was speaking precisely about how unwarranted at this level, taking the presidents of the courts and chief prosecutors from the state, through federal to cantonal levels in Sarajevo, showed that in both of these verticals only Srbin and Bošnjak were represented, and there are no Hrvat and expressed their amazement that, for example, there can be no Hrvat in Sarajevo either. So here's the need for me to complete this intervention of hers.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2860	I suggest that we continue not to clarify this subject but to see, look, I suggest, I really propose that we vote for it to be received to know this report. I ask you to prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2861	...that there are no Hrvat in these positions. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2862	Please make your point. You can vote!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2863	I can't accept that without protest.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2864	Thank you very much. I realize that we have unanimously received knowledge, with me thinking that at one of the next sessions of the College, we need to find a way to get on the subject of essential conversation, but here, without a conclusion, we're going to take a moment to find a mechanism to refer some point to a part of these topics to come to the table and to talk about them. The next point I pray for, due to my obligations, Mr Filipović to lead it, is: Ad. 12. 2007 Work Report and JPNIO "The Official Journal of BiH" 2008 That's this agenda point, I'll bring it in. The House of Representatives has not received this report and plan again, so I am opening the debate. You also have a report from the board of directors. Mrs. Majkić answered her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2866	Here's another report that the House of Representatives didn't receive. He doesn't say why he didn't take it into his knowledge. He says the institution has no regulated legal status and therefore punishes the institution, does not adopt its report. This report didn't need to be delivered to us. Why did he come to this house session in the first place? The Finance and Budget Commission of the House of Representatives asked for the report to be delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly in March, and here we have this report in front of us today. What's this report? Good. There's no reason why we shouldn't adopt him. The institution is unregulated, that's what we're talking about the third time today. But it's not the responsibility of an institution that's unregulated. It's the Council of Ministers' responsibility for not doing his job. So, please, we don't need to lead any controversy at all. You have the Commission's view that this should be supported. The institution was doing well. Asking who to send the money or whether to build buildings and other things, she doesn't have a talker to whom to address. And you should thank those people who work there, and they don't have any help from anyone. 49 So, I suggest we plead, regardless of the position of the House of Representatives, and accept the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2867	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Who wants another word? Mr. Jović, come in. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2868	Very short, Mr. President. I fully support what Mrs. Majkić suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2869	Thank you very much. You can see there's a consensus between us. Mr. Neimarlija, you were going to say something. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2870	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2871	Anybody else want a word? Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2872	The chairman, therefore, I want, both as a delegate and as a member of this committee, to state my position on the work of the Public Enterprise of the Press Organisation, is whether, which we treated at the session of our commission. So this institution works very responsibly, consciously, well, professionally and very effectively in this financial part and in this part, is it, what they're responsible for? I would especially like to emphasise and support that according to the report that we received very responsibly and domestically treated the rest of the money that remained in this institution after the end of the financial years, they did not spend it on the increase in compensation, on various costs, on the increase, on the increase, on wages or on some other expenditures, but they launched activities on whether, building certain spaces for their accommodation and work. The problems of the management nature – on the number, on the composition, on the length of the term of office of individual members of the Management Board, on the activities or inactivity of the Council of Ministers, on amendments and additions to the law – are matters to be taken into account and regulated by the adoption of appropriate regulations but cannot be put on the burden of management and this institution. So here, as a member of the Commission, I propose that we support this, that we take this into account, and that these activities are being addressed in this future time. 50 thanks.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2873	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. So it's nice to hear what we just heard. I'd say only for all MPs to know that the work on this agenda is being followed by Mr. Prusina's Public Business Director. So, knowing him as a person, I'm not surprised at the legality of his work in this public institution. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement report and receiving the report for knowledge. Who's in? Here, approach the vote. I find that, now we will see how many votes, with 11 votes "yes", with a sufficient entity majority, the report is accepted. I thank the rapporteur, Mr Prusina. Moving to the next item of the agenda: Ad. 13. Information on the authorisations issued for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products for the year 2007 You have received information as well as the opinion of the relevant committee that supported this information. The House of Representatives received this information. I'm opening the debate. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2875	...a permit for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products for 2007 and then turn the list down, and it says: Sarajevo, May 2007. So first I wonder, is this the report, the annual report, if not, is it a six-month report and what about the difference for those other six months? Anyway, the report that caused my attention due to known circumstances, given the large number of media comments on arms exports to Georgia, I think BiH is accused of exporting. It was interesting to observe and listen to comments that have appeared recently by different people who have commented in different ways. And most of the most responsible in BiH said that the exporting of weapons wasn't and that the members of the presidency and members of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, even our esteemed Mr. Zrno, was gone today, but here he hurried to say that here in BiH we know which countries we can't export to, so we don't. Although Georgia is not 51 on any list of countries in which exports cannot be officially made, we know that the political situation requires that we do not, therefore, agree on any request to issue a licence for the export of arms and military equipment under the law provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Defence of BiH, on the basis of which the Ministry of Economic Relations issues issue permits. It was truly unusual how much unprofessionalism and confusion were trying to convince the public and international community of BiH's innocence about the exports of arms and military equipment to Georgia. Did Mr Silajdžić, Alkalaj and others, and also the committee responsible – so ours, I am not running away from my own responsibility in the process – ever seriously concerned the issue of arms exports? The answer could be much clearer. However, Mr. Crnadak is only partly right when he says there has not yet been a decision on the fate of surplus arms at the presidency, so there could be no export, as he says. However, he does not say that, not only before the decision was taken but also before the agreement on the transfer of movable property, illegal arms exports and military equipment were made from military supplies. He didn't say a word about it. Also, Mr. Silajdžić is only partially right. The BiH presidency is not responsible for export permits, right. But it is competent for foreign policy and must have known how the exports would affect BiH and Russia's political relations. We witness daily the state we live in and as far as we reach the irresponsibility of those who are at the top of the hierarchical scale of government in BiH. The question remains: Is there political responsibilities in this discussion? Because it is clear that Georgia is not on any arms embargo list, and that is not entirely relevant when it comes to politics and political assessment of who is more important, Russia or Georgia. One more thing I want to say is that imports and exports, namely the production of arms and military equipment, are regulated by state-level legislation. The goal of the organisation of the area was not only to correct legal shortcomings but to allow the normal operation of the BiH dedicated industry. Today, no one can answer the question: Has the introduction of state legislation and supervision strengthened the position of the dedicated industry on the world market? Also, there is no knowledge that speaks of whether this industry has increased its own struggle for survival. Rather, it could be said that it continues to camp in its own struggle that it cannot carry out in this state in which it is cared for. Finally, will any of the authorities answer the question: What are the concrete results of the regional integration of the dedicated industry in order to perform jointly on the international market or at least who is in charge of promoting the development of the dedicated industry on the world market? So, I would like to stress that without adequate control of the entire process of importing and exporting arms and military equipment, similar problems will occur in the future that will spoil BiH's reputation internationally. That is why we should not be surprised at the appearance of frequent media reports linking BiH to illegal arms exports. The key question is: will BiH do anything to improve this situation? Whatever decision we make today regarding the Information on the authorisation issued for the transport of arms and military equipment will remain a bitter taste that we are not yet quite sure that we can prove whether or not there has been or has been no export to Georgia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2876	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. 52 I am envious of her very envious knowledge of weapons, of equipment, of military equipment and weapons, very enviously, you have shown very envious knowledge from that area and I have commended you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2877	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2878	Yeah, yeah. Anybody else want a word? Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2879	The Honorable Chairman, so I won't be long, I'll speak very briefly about this information. There is, there is some order of our own, we've been considering it on the board of directors, and I suggest we take this into account as well as the Commission. I don't see the problem here, but I do mind the way we discuss it from a respected colleague. He calls through personalities and some other parties, and the PDP, and the SBiH, there and the ministers, and the presidents, and I don't defend them, Bog forbid, they have a language and they know how to defend themselves, but he won't read who signed this report and think maybe from which party, is Minister Slobodan Puhalac. From which party was there, gone, whether export caused problems or not, or this is all being observed in one context of day-to-day or current-political events, and then somewhat laminate over all of this. At the same time, when we have in the parliamentary procedure a new law on border control, when we have in the procedure a law on the control of the movement of weapons and ammunition, therefore, laws transposing EUFOR to BiH institutions, laws that improve overall security, and here is the area in particular, at the same time such laws will not be supported by colleagues and its parties. So, not to be too long, I suggest we take this information into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2880	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2881	Comrade Rančić, I would like to remind you that I have the right to a personal attitude, even if it is wrong. So this morning I asked seven questions on this subject a new minister who had recently arrived because I have no answers to these questions. I can't direct my questions to the former minister. I said what kind of material it was, that the material said it was a year and May a month. Is that not enough to whom I speak? So don't tie other laws to a serious story that's on the agenda, and don't ever remind me what I'm supposed to do. I know what I'm supposed to do. So my point is that we don't have anything else, these are issued licenses based on what's evident. What's between that? I ask what's for what's gone, no license, that's what I'm talking about. So don't correct me about the things I say enough. So that was my comment. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2882	We have a person in charge here in front of the Ministry for this kind of license, so if there's any need, I ask the House of Peoples to give them the word, to the Ministry, if there's no... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Is there? There's no need to argue anymore. Just to ask, shall we approach the vote? All right, get ready to vote. You can vote! Thank you very much. He was unanimously admitted to this report. We have point 14. Ad. 14. Proposal for a Council of Ministers to appoint a member of the BiH concession commission
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2886	...to get rid of the status of that house. Now we've heard about her all the best, but I'm not because... we have the best house that works very well and we need to make a new one. So get rid of the fact that we need to make a new one, and the other one can do anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2887	Mr. Tihić, if I understand correctly, only suggestion, so at point 2 of Mr. Ibrahimpašić...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2888	Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2889	Instead of, well, just trying to explain myself, instead of "as new" it says "as an institution of BiH". Okay. Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2890	Since we essentially think alike, that it is necessary to edit this institution in a better way and to work better, function, whether through amendments and amendments to the law, whether through a new law etc. – the issue remains only the question of the initiative. I suggest that this initiative bear the name, that we make this some kind of consensus, an initiative about bearing the name of the Council of Ministers when they made a decision on the temporary, as they said, taking over the right of founders, which is that it bears the term 'A Council of Ministers initiative to solve the issue of the Official Journal of BiH'. That would be... this rest. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2891	All right, all right, just until Mr. Tihić is finished.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2892	That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2893	Thank you very much. Here, I can conclude that the changed name has been accepted by the proposings, thereby automatically making Mr Tihić's proposal an integral part of the initiative. But the promoter did not accept the proposal to exclude the words "new institution", although I personally think it is, but I don't want 55 more coming in, I'm afraid I'm going to complicate the problem, so I'm going to stop. So, if it's accepted as a whole. How exactly did you say?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2894	... - the whole way to solve the question... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2895	Initiative with?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2896	... Newspaper organisation "The Official Journal of BiH". [[no microphone turned on]] Right? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2897	'To be the whole way.'
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2898	- to solve the issue of the "Official Journal of BiH" News and Issue Organisation in an integrated manner.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2899	Just a second. I can see that the motioner of the Initiative has accepted the change and I think it's okay, it's the same name, but well, it's the same name. However, there is a gentleman, before Mrs. Čolo, Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2900	Why am I intervened? Because there's a suggestion here how it's going to work out. _________(?) Of course, the proposals are being ruled out. I suggest you build a new organization, there you go. It means "in a whole way" and so on. But that is a new child.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2902	Well, that's just a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2903	So the delegate has the right to propose, and if the Council of Ministers will adopt, that's a big question. 56 Here, Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2904	... Mrs. Majkić agreed to an amendment to the Initiative, called the Initiative. So can we do this at the end where he suggested the conclusions, because now these conclusions are falling back from this changed name. Because this point 2 of the conclusion prefers a new institution, prefers a revision of the "Official List", we are now precisely detailing what the Council of Ministers needs to do, and here we have said to do so - in an integrated way to resolve the issue of "Official List".
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2905	Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2906	So far it has gone countless times towards the Council of Ministers to resolve the issue of this institution... Let's see if it's in this country's interest to have an institution, one we have, now 56, that we have a 57th institution to call "the Official Journal of BiH". If it's not in our best interests, we don't need it. So, my, is it in your interest that 10 million income institutions make a year, is it interesting for us to use these 10 million to pay the rent of the BiH institution? Is that in our interest? If it isn't, if you're contesting everything, so don't, then it's not my initiative anymore. Please, you have before you an initiative that I agreed with Mr. Tihić to change in the title. No more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more. So what it looks like, you make your own initiatives then.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2907	... If the name changes, then they have to change, change... some other elements that concern the name. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2908	I apologize... for the stenogram. I'm begging you, can I just give myself a word for a minute? "The Official List" is not a very simple problem as we all try to bring it down together. He has some of his acts, and it is obvious that a decision on the temporary takeover of the right must be made, as otherwise "the official messenger", I remember that period, according to the court's position, would have been extinguished. So the issue of his organization was not fully resolved. I think we're getting politics into this current phase a little bit too much. He has some laws based on which it was done, it's very problematic, as much as BiH is, as much as the Federation is, but I'm not getting into it right now. We have this initiative for the Council of Ministers in which the promoter has given some of his views so that he thinks it can be arranged. Therefore, it is not disputed that it will be the BiH institution and it is not disputed that it will not be seen by the promoter as much as politically problematic, except for one word "new". But if we get into a jam, I'm afraid we're going to open a debate that's going to compromise our basic sense of meaning, which is that the Council of Ministers is proposing. Because there are a lot of people who have arguments to say that the existing institution is not the BiH institution. And I don't want to get into it, let's not argue, the essence here is given – one initiative, it's given to the Council of Ministers of 60 57 days to round up, let's not have that one word of 'new' or not the new one so problematic. If it's very problematic, we should vote against it and obviously we won't be convinced, we won't be convinced. I understand those who say it is an institution, they find some of their legal arguments, I understand those who say they should be the new BiH institution, they find theirs, we will not agree on it, but that the Council of Ministers should be pressed to do something here, should. And, right to tell you, I think that let me, I only... I wouldn't put the Office on the review of BiH institutions but I would say that: thinks the House of Peoples must be audited. And who's in charge, is it Federal or BiH? That's another question, and here's what I don't mind writing here either, because they'll say, if we're not in charge, we're not in charge. So sometimes, in order for me not to further complicate the problem of conclusions, they're all acceptable to me, and I don't think we're going to achieve agreement, not to spend, let's vote, so who wants to do this, who wants to end it anyway. Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2909	We know about what needs to be solved here, but we don't agree on how to handle it. We believe that the "Official List" institution exists as a state institution, in accordance with the BiH Constitution, in accordance with Aneks ii, Transitional provisions, Continuity of the legal rules of the institutions etc. Until it changes, changes, cancels and so on. So I can't accept this conclusion that says it's a new institution. It is an existing institution that will now get some different content, different form, etc. So we will probably have to vote on either Mrs. Majkić's proposal or on a proposal that would have to contain this provision to be deleted under point 2. ‘new institution’.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2910	Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2911	I think we're renaming one word and its meaning. I do not think that Mrs Majkić spoke in her proposal about the removal of the existing institution and the creation of a new one but that she thought that a new institution was built through the legislative provision of the right of founders. And why we keep getting complicated, I don't know. Looks like everybody's on their left leg here today, and we're gonna need a little time to get in the middle of something that doesn't matter. The point is that it is not resolved legal status, that it is not the founder of BiH, the Dayton BiH, but some other, earlier, that it needs to be coordinated, that it needs to be reorganised, put things in place, and that contains the Initiative. Is there a word “new”? Well, the Council of Ministers will come with a proposal before us again, so we'll say whether it's good or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2912	Okay, I suggest we vote, so now, as anyone wants to vote. Since the promoter has adopted a name change, I won't. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2913	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-17-0.u2914	So, good. So, after all this debate, we come to the beginning. We have before us an initiative in the original form as it is given, I call on delegates to prepare for the vote. You can vote. Thank you very much, the results of the vote were: "for" voted eight, "against" voted five, there is an entity third in both cases. The initiative has been accepted. I propose to the delegates that we conduct a united debate on the points until the end of the agenda, and that we plead unitedly, if there are no problems. So, I'm opening a debate on all the other points of the agenda. Any objections to giving consent to the ratification of these agreements? I'm guessing it doesn't. The people's home accepted that in a single vote on all of them, we pleaded. Prepare to vote. You can vote! I find the House unanimously agreed to ratify all agreements. This has exhausted all points of the agenda of today's session. I thank you for your presence and declare this session over. Thank you very much. The seat is closed at 14.50.
