ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u17980	Gentlemen, we'll have plenty of time for each other today. Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 28th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, as usual, we invited our regular guests to this session: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations, embassies, representatives of NGOs. I thank them, those who are present. As a result of their reports, representatives of the Central Bank of BiH, BiH Institutions Audit Office, BiH Export Credit Agency, BiH Post Traffic Agency, the BiH Data Protection Commission, were invited to attend the meeting. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. I also welcome representatives of public information funds. I agree that 34 MPs attend the session. The absence was justified by Mehmed Suljkanović, Sead Jamakosmanović, distinguished MP Malić, honourable MP Bećirović and Lagumdžija announced a certain delay, for the others I did not receive any reports. Ladies and gentlemen, you received a draft agenda in the invitation to the session. In an amended and updated draft agenda, as you can see, as requested in 127, Honorary Ambassador Jerko Ivanković sent a proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production within the CEFTA Agreement. Given that this is a mandatory item of the agenda, it was placed as the third item of the agenda and the 11th point that remained the same, but was only complemented by, meanwhile, the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission. The other amendments and additions to the agenda have not been received, nor have we had demands on the extended college on this issue. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Dear Ambassador Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u17981	Gentlemen, the chairman, distinguished guests, in the past little more than a month at the centre of citizens' attention and the public are two draft laws that try to regulate salaries and fees in BiH institutions and regulate the obligations and rights of members of the Parliamentary Assembly. The way these issues try to regulate and the time when it is tried to regulate 2, they have completely overshadowed the real need to identify, or edit this area. There's no area where there's more chaos.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u17982	Please, sir, just to warn you, it means you're explaining your agenda points, to say the least.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u17983	One minute!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u17984	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u17985	I think that the legislators of these laws have wrongly approached regulation of this issue, taking advantage of the need to regulate this area, with an enormous increase in wages. As a result, the dissatisfaction and anger of citizens are justified so that MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly are placed on the pillar of shame, especially those who supported the law or were its proposings. Of course, this ambience is also used for various politicizations, etc. What I propose, in order not to waste much time on politicizing today and not to further irritate the citizens and the public in this turbulent time: I propose to the legislators of the bill on duties and the rights of members of the Parliamentary Assembly that this bill be withdrawn from the procedure because we are sufficiently exposed to the pillar of shame, that we do not really need an additional rating in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u17986	Mr. Dolić, I, as chairman and in the College, have already considered such opportunities, but you know business as well as possible. So the point can't be removed, it can be opened, and then by the end of the debate, the motionaries have the right to withdraw the law. So this request of yours cannot be put to the vote because it is in conflict with the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. Here you go. If there isn't, I'll conclude the debate and find out that we've adopted 1. Records from the 26th and 27th sessions of the House; 2nd. Parliamentary questions and answers; 3. The request of MP Jerka Ivanković Lijanović to consider the proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production within the CEFTA Agreement by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 4. Proposal for a law on agriculture, nutrition and rural development of BiH (second reading); 5. Proposal for a framework law on the protection and rescue of people and material goods from natural and other accidents in BiH (second reading); 3 6. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of BiH, police officers, civil servants and other employees in peace support operations and other activities abroad, with the Joint Commission on Defence and Security report; 7. Proposal for a law on the duties and rights of members of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (first reading); 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in BiH (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of BiH (first reading); 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Police Officers of BiH (first reading); 11. Proposal for a law on the control of the movement of arms and military equipment, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security; 12. Discussion - Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2007, - Financial Report by the Central Bank of BiH for 2007; 13. Consideration of the Information Paper of the Council of Europe - Bosnia and Herzegovina Implementation of obligations and implementation of the post-accession co-operation programme; 14. Report on the activities of the BiH Institutions Audit Office in 2007; 15. Report on the work of the BiH Export Credit Agency Management Board; 16. A report on the work and the Financial Report of the BiH Post Office for 2007; 17. Report on the protection of personal data in BiH and on the work of the Commission for Data Protection for 2007; 18. The initiative of MP Denis Bećirović regarding the preparation of the Law on the Prohibition of All Non-Fashist Organisations and the Use of Their Symbols, including the ban on Ustasha and Chetnic Organisations, as well as those which rely on the Handar Division tradition; 19. Appointment of three members of the Joint Committee for the Harmonisation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Names of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 20. Giving consent to ratification (a) Framework Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, which regulates the activities of the European Investment Bank in Bosnia and Herzegovina, (b) The Agreement on Cooperation in Defence between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Greece, (c) the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury and the Bank of Austria Credit Insurance AG - the Project for Reconstruction and Enlargement of the Water System in the Municipality of Posuje, (d) the Treaty on loan – Reorganisation of the project of the refurbishment of the Electricity System – between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, (e) the Treaty on Amendment – which amends and complements the Treaty on loan from 2 November 2000, amendments from 5 December 2001 to 23 February 2004 – between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, (F) the Treaty on the Protection of Information, the Facitualisation of Information, in the Republic of the Republic of Justice and the Republic of the Republic of the Faciation of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. Point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from 26th and 27th sessions
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u17990	I thank you, Chairman. So in 12.12.2007, I asked the Council of Ministers: Is the holiday law published in "SFRBiH Official List" 2/92 effective? This answer can therefore conclude that this holiday law is in force. So that BiH has the holiday law and I am satisfied with this answer. I got the answer in a Cyrillic letter and that's good, because it's also a Cyrillic letter... The Bošnjak and with that, and in that part, I'm satisfied. I am not satisfied with one explanation, in some way, with a response of 5 that the Council of Ministers' Work Programme is scheduled for this year to be adopted to prepare a draft law on the holidays of BiH, however, the Council of Ministers should, therefore, not prepare a draft law on holidays but possibly prepare a draft law on amendments and amendments to the holiday law because we have the holiday law, a valid law that is in force. Therefore, the Council of Ministers should possibly prepare amendments and additions to that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u17991	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u17992	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the 21st session, I asked the Council of Ministers: What are the reasons for this delay in moving into a renewed Council of Ministers building, or Friendship Building? I got the answer, and it's a success. I certainly thank them for their answer. But I'm totally dissatisfied with the answer. In fact, from very short answers to five sub-questions, it is evident that either there was no or no plan to reconstruct this building, which was normal and the first sentence of the reply said: that the Council of Ministers had not yet made a decision to move the ministries into the Friendship Building. Furthermore, the tender is said to be called in due time by the Council of Ministers' decision on the selection of the authority in charge of the settlement and approval of a certain amount of money, and it is not said which body, nor how much funding is authorised for it, nor when the tender is de facto called. So, today, after a year of completing that building, we do not yet know when it will be moved, as the tender is being conducted, whether the procedure for the purchase of furniture has been completed and, in the end, the saddest and saddest of all that the answer ends in a sentence: Respecting the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, there has been no delay in moving into the Friendship Building because all the prescribed procedures are respectable. This really points to an irresponsible and non-domestic relationship towards the funds that have been invested and, in the end, an incorrect relationship towards the Greek government donor, which has allocated considerable resources for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u17993	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u17994	Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament and other guests, since I see that today there is no direct TV transmission and no cameras in this room, I will not comment on what I have planned, nor will I ask new parliamentary questions, because I have not received any questions so far, I have received half or no answers, and the new parliamentary questions I think I am sure in advance will not be properly presented because I think that they are wrong... that the media space within BiH is divided by national. I think it's divided by strategist membership, and the questions I'm asking are directly in relation to the ruling coalition with certain agencies, services and state and other bodies, and that's why I won't even comment on or ask any new questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u17995	Thank you. The call was made when the plenary session was... so we did part of our job. Dear Ambassador Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u17996	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I asked a parliamentary question on 16 January at the 20th session and the Council of Ministers sent me answers on three occasions... and I think that this response that they sent, this last one, is quite complete and I'm sorry that there is no Mr. Puhalac here to say that the answer that, part of the response that came from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, is really concrete and I think it is correct to say and emphasize it. I would like to say that the issue concerned the creation of a business environment in BiH and that, regardless of what has been done by the Council of Ministers so far, I think these measures are not adequate and, in that sense, I would suggest a conclusion that I will now read. I'll deliver it to you in writing, when I've already reported that I'm not answering twice. So, the conclusion, and regarding my parliamentary question, would read as follows: The BiH Council of Ministers undertakes to make an analysis of the business environment in BiH within 90 days and to prepare a full programme of measures and activities through the most extensive consultations that will allow BiH to be the preferred place for investment, both for foreign and domestic investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u17997	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ivanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u17998	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I received a reply from the Public TV Service to my question about the transfer of these sessions to last plenary session. I would like to have a comment, as well as a question of a new College relating to the response of the Public TV Service, so I will read two passports from this answer: BHT1 TV will directly transfer the meetings of the House of Representatives directly in line with its editorial guidelines, on which there will be a permanent communication with the College of Representatives. In this respect, the following assumptions are necessary: amendments to the programme scheme of the editorials need to be submitted to the announcement of the planned session of the House of Representatives seven days before its maintenance. The programming term for the session transfer will be planned over a period of 10 to 16 hours. They practically responded that it is not a problem at all, that they will carry from 10 to 16 hours of all sessions that are of interest to the Bosnian Herzegovina public. Question to the College: Is this session today not of interest to the Bosnian Herzegovina public? And I would ask you, since we are chosen by the citizens of BiH, and I think that no session, in fact, is every session of interest to the Bosnian Herzegovina public, and the one that is not, in fact, I don't know if there is any need to maintain it at all. Should we do the work that is not of interest to the Bosnian Herzegovina public? So to answer what... of these two... conditions is not met. Is it or isn't television on time notified or is this session not of interest to the Bosnian Herzegovina public? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u17999	Let me answer your questions immediately. I already said in advance that the call was made when the call was for the plenary session. So for this session, the call and notice is sent at that time. And that's where the terms came in, so a call came in seven days ago. Is this a session for or not for the general public? This is not what the College has determined, nor will it determine. We made a call, why someone didn't show up, that's another problem. Is there enough answer? Let's move on. Who else answered? Dear Ambassador Raguž. For the answer, is it? Answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18000	Answer, answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18001	For comments or a new question? Comments.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18002	I thank you, Mr. President. Since there is no Mr. Zorić, he will arrive, and the question has been asked in the name of the club, I would just say the following. So, at the 26th session, Mr Zorić asked the Bureau for information on the dual citizenship agreement with the Republic of Croatia. What was the reason for blocking this agreement? He also asked the Foreign Ministry for the same information. The answer was received only from the foreign ministry, and that, in my opinion, is only partially correct, where Article 17 of the law said that the BiH presidency was prescribed under the agreement of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and it was won, it decided on the ratification of the 8th international contract. So neither the circumstances nor the reason for the blockade were explained in response, and this question will be re-delivered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18003	Thank you. Next for comment, Ambassador Lagumdžija, and Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18004	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I got an answer from the D.A. like you said yourself. But I want similar colleagues, Raguž, I mean technically similar. At the 23rd session, on March 18th of this year, I began my parliamentary question with a sentence: If it is true that I or anyone else was a superior to any false account or abuse in the use of an account on behalf of the Government of the Republic of BiH, I call on the Prosecutor's Office to carry out the investigation without delay and the most severe penalties of whoever ever did it. The D.A. has answered that what I asked is not a question but a character of a call, which is why I'm more comfortable with it. However, in the same letter, I was told that... they are referring to Article 216 (1) of the Criminal Procedure Act: if there are grounds for suspicion that a crime has been committed, they will act, but they have not come across it so far. However, I would like, Mr. Chairman, to say that I have received, practically, and I repeat this and the representatives of the Council of Ministers here, here is Mr. Nović, I am sorry that he is not in charge of this because I am sure he would have received an answer sooner. I asked the Council of Ministers, or Minister of Finance, the Minister of Security to give full information on whether the accounts the media has been calling or anyone else since '92. to this day, the accounts of the Government of RBiH or the Zlatko of Lagumdžija from anyone who abused them and I asked for an answer to the question of who, for which needs had opened those accounts, as much as and from whom the funds had come, for what and when the funds were used, and who were the payers for payments in these accounts? And I've also given the proper documentation. Well, I just want it to be determined, so there's no confusion, so I didn't get the answer to the question. I only received an answer from the D.A. which I did... I knew that there was no, as far as I was concerned, any problems and that they were not running any proceedings on the subject, but I did not get an answer to the question from the Council of Ministers, Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Finance, so it would be good to hurry but to find out again – I did not get an answer to the right question. The real question was not for the prosecution but for the competent institutions, although I have no doubt that the prosecution might, after getting an answer, have been given a job, but that's the thing now, is this law, quoted here, not the parliamentary question. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18005	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković, did you have one? You have a report here. Okay. Dear Member Marković, do you have a comment? Is there any other answer or comment? There isn't. Then we'll go nine in a row for the new parliamentary questions. First comes Ambassador Džaferović, so Nanić, Marković, Novaković, Prodanović, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18006	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I have two shorts and, in my opinion, very important parliamentary issues. Both issues are the BiH Council of Ministers, and the first question is: What is the current state of protection of the population and animals against brucellosis in BiH, and what is the Council of Ministers doing on this plan? And I ask that one piece of information be drawn up and I demand a parliamentary debate on this subject. According to the data I have, the situation in BiH is alarming but it is put on the other side, given all these developments that we have in BiH. At the women's hospital, 59 people are currently suffering from brucellosis from two cantons, Central Bosnian and Women's Dobojski and I don't think there are any better conditions in other parts of BiH. She's getting used to it. So, the herds are poled. This is, therefore, not to talk about it, the thing that is dangerous, therefore, for the health of people and for the Bosnian Herzegovic economy. I think – I asked the question last time about the state of this Office of Veterinary in BiH – I think we need a state action on this subject. This is in the interest of all of us in BiH because brucellosis knows neither inter-cantonal nor inter-state lines, and I think we need to have an answer to this question and we need to have an appropriate strategy from BiH level. Please respond first and let those in the Council of Ministers who are in charge prepare freely. I'll ask, here I am now seeking a parliamentary debate on this subject. The second question: in order for things not to come to us, we have also worked hard for the Council of Ministers and for us in Parliament to adopt the Law on Higher Education last year. We did it. I think it is time, given the importance of this area, that here in Parliament, at the proposal of our resolution ministry, or the Council of Ministers, we discuss the course of the implementation of the Law on Higher Education. There are certain deadlines in which universities in BiH and universities must prepare for accreditation. I'm afraid... after the cut of that deadline, we don't grab our heads without doing anything before that! I want information – so, and we need information, and here I am also looking for a parliamentary debate – how are things with the implementation of the Higher Education Law and how are the universities and universities in BiH prepared for the upcoming process of accreditation and inclusion in Bologna? True, it should be a theme here in Parliament so that we can see for ourselves what we need to do so that on the day the deadlines are up, we don't get caught by the head. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18007	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18008	Thank you. 10 Mr. Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, I have two questions today. One question is for the Ministry of Security and the SIPA, and it refers to the following: We can meet vehicles with blue-red lights for which no traffic nor human rules apply on a day-to-day basis. These vehicles drive too fast, cross their knees, and you often find yourself in a situation where you have to get out of the way when they show up. According to the knowledge, it's about vehicles bh. functioner of all levels of government. I ask the question: by which regulation and by which criteria are assigned the right to rotate a blue-red sort of forward, which is very much how they kill by looking at bh. roads, and whether or not anyone is allowed to break traffic rules on bh. The roads? I'm looking for a list of all vehicles and officials who've been granted licenses to own and use rotating lights in BiH. I think it's clear enough here which vehicles are involved. The second question, I ask through the Council of Ministers to the Prime Minister of the Federation of BiH, given that the Federation Parliament's House of Representatives is in several extensions of its sessions, estimating the extremely difficult situation as well as the potentials of Agrommerca d.d. A number of conclusions have also been drawn from the Great Cladhuda, including the conclusion that the Federation Government is obliged to provide a one-million-dollar payment of contributions to 196 workers of Agrokomerac-Comer who have until then obtained the right but do not receive a pension due to outstanding contributions. I note that the government also participated in this conclusion and accepted it as a solution and said it had the means to implement this conclusion. Today, after a few years, the story of agrokomerac remains the same, and the state gets worse every day. I ask a question, meaning the Prime Minister of the Federation: Is the Federation's Parliament's conclusion on the allocation of funds for the payment of contributions to Agrokomerac-Comerc workers, who have achieved the right but do not receive pensions due to outstanding contributions? If it is, and if it is paid, when and on whose account and if it is not, will it be paid and when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18009	Thank you. Dear Member Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18010	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one question addressed to the Regulatory Agency for the following reasons. In recent times, we have been witnessing that certain journalists of certain media and public broadcasters give themselves so much freedom and so much right to qualify and treat public and political figures, to individual political parties in BiH, and especially from the RS, although I do not think they save even politicians from the Federation of BiH, in such a way that it is truly inadmissible and inappropriate, and thus undermine the integrity of the personality and simply go into privacy, which is not allowed by any codes and rules in any democratic society. 11 Therefore, my question concerns the following: Is it allowed and allowed for the Regulatory Agency of Communications and for the Croatian Federation of BiH to qualify and label certain public figures and parties in BiH, especially those in the RS, without respecting the basic criteria for the integrity of culture in public communication, especially in the context of those qualifications having a purpose of undermining the identity and privacy of each public political person and whether public broadcaster's license is being kept in mind about respect of the codes of conduct of the journalists in BiH? And I'm particularly interested in Federal TV since we know it's the only emitter of three broadcasters in BiH who hasn't been granted another license to work from the Regulatory Agency and what should be done. The BiH Television has won, but we have a situation that this very television, so here last night in one show, thus qualified RS politicians to simply call these journalists and editors the right to be both prosecutors and judges and to judge often without criteria, without measures, without a elemental culture of behaviour, to allow themselves to call state lawmakers in this country very ugly names, which is unacceptable and in this way... to bring people into a situation that they have both associations and public programs and various ways of public communication to defend and raise all the public in their protection, and those they qualify and who accuse simply do not allow in any way, nor respect their demos and their arguments. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18011	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go. You don't have a new question? There isn't. Dolić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18012	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have two questions. The first question is the resolute minister of human rights and refugees in the Council of Ministers: What can you do to stop the hack of unemployed people of the Federation, who, under the password of the action against working on black and abuse of unemployment status in the last 15 days, is carried out in the Federation of BiH by a federal labour inspection, which, with the record of unemployment in the employment offices unilaterally, without any solution and without the right to appeal, is wiped out by unemployed citizens of the Federation, including a large number of those who have rented several square meters in the markets, those who have achieved several hundred KM of monetary premiums for agricultural production and those who move across the border and the trustees, with the aim of feeding the family and its biological survival. Do these citizens view human rights as being violated by the fact that they have not received any written resolutions on eradicating unemployment and that they have no right to appeal? Is this how unemployed citizens actually prefer to be suggested that while waiting for work, instead of finding ways to feed their families, to beg, to pick up or kidnap and whom these citizens can address for the protection of their rights that have been violated by such procedures? 12 The way the Federal Inspectorate acts, instead of employers and unemployed rich people, in the face of allegedly curbing black labour, those who are forced to work on markets, in agriculture, or in another miserable way have found ways to survive the family while waiting for employment. The second question is the question of the resolution minister and the ministry in the Council of Ministers: How is the state of birth of BiH officially moving in the post-war period by entities and cantons and whether any measures have been legally established to stimulate birth and help families with more children in the cantons and entities and, if so, how does it seem? I ask this question is prompted by serious warnings from statisticians and demographics that there are no synchronised systemic actions in BiH from year to year of death in relation to the number of people born on a steady rise and, on the other hand, according to my knowledge, there is no synchronised systemic action, the stimulation of birth and assistance to families with more children in BiH, or it seems controversial, and even we have an absurd and immoral situation that also in BiH there is a better motivated growth and livestock farming than the birth and rearing of children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18013	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18014	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, before asking my question, I would like to ask the Council of Ministers to whom I referred the parliamentary question last year, concerns the way, organisation and structure of "The Official Messenger of BiH". I haven't been given an answer, I'm asking you to deliver. And my question is also addressed to the Council of Ministers: Please provide me with the amounts of salaries of all elected and appointed officials in all BiH institutions that have been subject to the processing of the BiH Office of Auditing Institutions, so that all 53 of them are there, so that the public, who is often unilaterally informed about the receipts and who is mainly focused on elected officials in the most negative sense, can have adequate information and use them in this sense to inform the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18015	Thank you. The following has been applied to ask a question by a respected representative of Bahtić. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18016	Thank you. Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers and others, I warmly welcome you all. I have two questions for today. First question for the Ministry of Transport and Communications: I ask the RES to tell me what it has done so far and what it plans to do for the road and rail integration of the Krajina with other parts of BiH, the Sarajevo centre, neighbouring countries and the EU? When will the ministry launch a railway line through Krajina: from Bihac to Croatia, Sarajevo, so that the Krajina will also be tied to Sarajevo, neighbouring countries and the EU? I've already asked a parliamentary question here once that in Krajina, when it comes to highway construction plans, Corridor Vc, fast roads, railways, we're nowhere to go. And we know what that means: isolation, underdevelopment, misery, poverty and emigration. We won't let that happen anymore. I don't think the Krajišnik don't deserve this country's attitude towards the Krajina because we in Krajina have both brains and resources, and we want to put that into effect so that our citizens don't go further to third countries for business and existence. The province is the gates of Europe and one of the most beautiful parts of BiH. So I don't think anyone has the right to isolate us, stop our development, progress because we all know that where there are no good roads, roads, traffic and communication, railways, there's no investment in investment, there's no economy and there's no survival in those areas. At least we Krajišnik have convinced ourselves that the former system is that the communists have kept us in isolation for 50 years, so today we have the largest diaspora. That's what Krajina and the Krajišnik can't even accept and Annex IX to the Dayton Constitution about corporations obliges us to establish rail traffic. And another question for RAK: What have you done so far, and what will you do to stop in certain public broadcasters a media hack and lynch where disgusting lies, lies, even installments from the worst communist times in discrediting certain politicians, to silence or remove themselves from the political scene? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18017	Thank you. The next entry was submitted to the second deputy president, Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18018	The question is for the Council of Ministers and says: Why is the Council of Ministers of BiH a member of 18. Decisions on the issue process and how to deal with BiH bonds issued in order to settle obligations under old foreign exchange savings decided that they do not apply to RS? In my opinion, in this way, the law on the settlement of liabilities on the basis of an old foreign savings account, which is, of course, inadmissible because bonds are issued for part of the state, in this case, the Federation and Brcko District, which is discriminatory for a large number of BiH citizens. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18019	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Todorović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18020	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is: When will the 2007 Business Report and the 2008 Financial Plan be adopted in the BiH Foreign Chamber of Commerce? When will the new secretary general be appointed because the current term of office expires six months ago? Under whose authority does the appointed secretary-general perform his duties? The matter to the Council of Ministers and the answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18021	The word has a respected speaker, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18022	Thank you. Two short questions. One is addressed to the Ministry of Transport and Communications: Please provide me with information on the activities related to the accommodation of the BiH Civil Aviation Directorate in Banja Luka, since we have more conflicting opinions and activities going beyond what is agreed. I'd like to get that information as soon as possible. The second is addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers: Please draw up information on the effects of legal solutions that have transferred competence from entities to the level of joint bodies of BiH. In order for each law not to individually consider their effects here, it would be best to make a summary of about 50, as they say, delegated powers, to see these effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18023	The next question was asked by a respected representative, Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18024	That's a very short question. I refer it to the BiH Council of Ministers, which reads: What are the salaries and other management and management fees of all three public TV services in BiH and the Management Board, i.e. the Supervisory Board of these services? Explanation: Since recent weeks and months have been the strongest topic in this country of receiving and paying representatives, and only BiH's representatives, and I think that the public of BiH should know what the salaries and other receipts are, but we also need to know what 15 receipts of these people are, as I just said earlier, not only of them but also of all other users, the Budget of the BiH institutions. Therefore, equal rights and obligations apply to all because we are all spending, i.e. financing from public funds, i.e. the budget of institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18025	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. The request of MP Jerka Ivanković Lijanović to consider the proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production within the CEFTA Agreement under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure On 24 April, the MP submitted to the House a proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production within the CEFTA Agreement, with the request to be considered by an urgent procedure. The same day we passed the bill to you, and now we are discussing the request. Please limit your discussion of the request, not the law. In case we adopt the request, we will have time and debate to open up the law itself. Dear Ambassador Ivanković has already signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18027	Dear President, colleagues, fellow representatives, distinguished guests, I think it's high time we did something for agriculture in our field of jurisdiction. So far, we have had recommendations and measures but they mainly referred to other competences. In the second half of last year we held a debate on the CEFTA Agreement, held discussions on agricultural issues and adopted a law similar to this but unfortunately he did not get support in the House of Peoples and could not enter into force. The difficult position in agriculture is becoming more difficult every day, the foreign trade deficit is growing drastically overall and last year from 6 billion in 2006 has increased to 8 billion in 2007 and 2 billion of this deficit only concerns imports of food that we can practically produce completely in BiH. And, out of that 2 billion, over 50% of imports from us are two neighbouring countries, Serbia and Croatia, and this tells us that we practically have room to produce our own food, to make it affordable, not to pay the price of destroyed own production, as we have the situation in the last few months, because in the past 10 years, we have destroyed our own production with a wrong foreign trade and incentive policy, and now we are dependent on import and pay and citizens of this country are paying that policy with constant collection of basic life supplies. You also have a few tables on the basis of the law. One of them speaks of a deficit in agricultural products from 1999 to 2007, which shows that last year's export coverage in agricultural products is only 15.22%, and that the 16 coverage is about to increase by about 1.1-2% each year and, if we continue with such a trend, a balanced external trade balance in agricultural products would have been achieved by 78 years. That indicator says how urgent this matter is and how alarming it is to do something in that area. What the debate was about last year is that a slightly lower level of government will be done to improve the situation, but now, after seven or eight months, we see that lower levels of government have done nothing significant, because they do not have enough resources. Incentives in both entities and all counties and cantons are only 10% compared to incentives, let's say the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, which besides its domestic incentives, which are ten times larger than those in BiH, there is still the possibility of access to EU funds from which it can withdraw significant funds for its agriculture and, in such circumstances, in free trade, our agriculture will practically experience a collapse. A similar situation is with Serbia. EU incentives are 43% of the EU budget and we, hopefully within a month or two, will sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Under the agreement, the trade part of the agreement will immediately enter into force, meaning that most agricultural products will be re-emerged with EU duty-free trade and imagine what would be an additional blow to domestic producers. This law provides for a procedure to protect domestic production under the CEFTA Agreement, in accordance with Article 22. - 23rd and 23rd bis are scheduled to immediately start charging customs duties on certain agricultural products from Serbia and Croatia in the EU Trade Agreement with the EU on Free Trade with the EU.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18028	Can we talk about the reasons for the procedure? We'll talk about the law later.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18029	Well, here's the urgency, these are all the reasons.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18030	I know it's an emergency, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18031	But here's the short one, I'm not a big time consumer. I hope you take that into consideration. Most of the products in this law, which are required to charge customs duties on imports from Serbia and Croatia, are also agreed with the EU to charge customs duties in the entry into force of the Free Trade Treaty until BiH's entry into the EU or will partly be reduced during a certain period, so I see no reason why we would give our neighbours more favourable status in foreign trade than we gave the EU when we aim to be a member of the EU rather than a member of neighbouring countries. Here, from everything I've said and what you have through these figures in the law, I hope this law gets support. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18032	Thank you. If there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Proposal for a law on agriculture, nutrition and rural development of BiH The law is in the second reading. You know he's been in the process for a long time. At the 13th session, he did not get the entity majority, so the alignment was done. At the 14th session, he went back to the meeting and was adopted at the 15th session in his first reading. In the amendment phase, the competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs requested, on two occasions, an extension of the time limit for the submission of the report. Following the long-term alignment, we received a report from the Commission on the Proposal for a Law on Agriculture, Nutrition and Rural Development of BiH on 2 April 2008. You saw in the report that the Commission also held a public debate on this bill. The report also contained 17 amendments adopted unanimously by the Commission and thus became an integral part of the law. At the plenary stage, we no longer have amendments. I'm opening a debate. If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. Moving to the fifth item of the agenda: Ad. 5. Proposal for a framework law on the protection and rescue of people and material goods from natural and other accidents in BiH (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18036	So, in addition to the fact that procedurally practical... there have been conditions that we are today practically completing today's procedure regarding this law, I need a few sentences to say. Of course, I welcome the way the Joint Commission made a report out of which it is very visible which argument was for and which was therefore against the support of this law, or what it was that created the position of... our commission. I think that, you saw for yourself, sure that the key problem was the way in which you fill out the composition of these missions, etc. So, the use of that spare composition. I think that the proposing and resolute ministry has done the right thing and that they should respect the argument that they have stated in the light of this law. So this is about the reserve composition, or persons who stopped professional service and who in some way went through appropriate vocational training and they were in some way quite prepared for this kind of mission, which does not produce costs which one of the arguments was not to use that spare composition. I think in this way we have missed the opportunity and practically brought the state into a situation that has no capacity and the ability to carry out part and international obligations, that is, our participation in international missions,... which we have defined here and which for BiH is understood by the very act of saying that we want to be equal members of both the NATO Union and the EU. It also produces certain obligations. I express regret that we have not practically created today the assumption that the state can do more successfully, I do not claim that it will not execute, but in this way we have reduced the possibility of the state to meet these obligations with full capacity.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18037	Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18038	The Honorable Chairman, ministers and members of the Council of Ministers, guests, dear colleagues and colleagues, namely, I came forward as I was proposing an amendment in this amendment phase, which practically erases the position of the law which is essentially the law itself, to disable, i.e. to allow participation on a voluntary basis of members of the Reserve Assembly in peacekeeping missions. 19 When we were working on a defence reform in BiH and later adopted this law, then planning, meaning this professional composition, was done in the light of several elements. One of these elements was also the ability of the BiH Armed Forces to respond to the needs of peacekeeping missions. The peace missions we are participating in today are not such capacity, in my deep conviction, that it is necessary to engage in reserve forces, even if it is on a voluntary basis. If BiH is in a position to assume obligations for larger peacekeeping missions, and I think that such issues can only be discussed with the consent of this parliament – at least the law is so defined: accept with the consent of this parliament – then we will have the opportunity to discuss the ability of the Armed Forces of BiH and BiH to respond to such missions. At this stage, I don't think it's necessary to define such positions. Of course, then we will have the opportunity to take a comprehensive look at not only our obligations but also the possibilities for fulfilling these obligations. For these reasons, I have also proposed an amendment to leave my participation in peacekeeping missions within the professional part of the Armed Forces of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18039	Thank you. No more reports, we're closing the debate. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law on the duties and rights of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly (first reading) The bill's proposal in the parliamentary procedure was submitted by several MPs with signatures: Sadik Ahmetović, Ekrem Ajanović, Sadik Bahtić, Branko Dokić, Savo Erić, Adem Huskić, Sead Jamakosmanović, Slavko Jovičić, Velimir Jukić, Remzija Kadrić, Drago Kalabić, Azra Alajbegović, Niko Lozančić, Milica Marković, Momčilo Novaković, Mirko Okolić, Prodanović Snježana Rajilić, Martin Raguž, Vinko Zorić, Hadži Jovan Mitrović, Jovan Todorović. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis on 28 March 2008. The House College was appointed by the Joint Commission for Administrative Affairs. The committee in charge delivered its opinion on the principles on 3 April 2008. As you can see, most of the votes were supported by the principles of the bill. We're in first reading now. We're considering the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. Is there any need for any of the promoters? Correction, honourable Member of Hadžiahmetović. Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18041	I have, by chance, heard your name and your name in reading your name, so please just correct me, I am not a signator of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18042	I said Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18043	You also said Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18044	I didn't. There's no list here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18045	Same correction when it comes to my name.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18046	Okay. Is there any need for any of the promoters? On behalf of the promoter, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18047	...I'm not a signer of this document, so I'm not even offered to sign.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18048	Okay. So, on behalf of the pronoun: discussion Dolić or? Yeah. Okay. Dear Ambassador Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18049	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I am sorry that fellow Members of Parliament who have been signed as prelegators of this law did not recognise the message of citizens and the public that this law of this kind should not be passed. We can talk today about what we want but the motive for proposing such a law is an attempt to through privileged retirement and high retirement conditions, in a way, implement the institutionalisation of the privileges of MPs after the end of the term of office. I don't think anyone is slowing down the need for duty and rights to be regulated by law, but... the shadow of all this is being thrown out by members of the 26th and 27th laws relating to pension-involvement rights. I think, too, that they are more controversial and that they are intruding into the domain of morality the privileged conditions of pensioning MPs and only slightly less the amount of pensions that are currently being applied to the current level of wages are moving up to 1.550,00 KM. Of course, if the proposed salary increase under the second law, which is 110% in the procedure, then privileged pensions rise to astronomical and immoral 3.500,00 KM or 10 average pensions in BiH. I think that every attempt to justify and justify such proposals is too high and that it rightly causes dissatisfaction of citizens, and it unnecessarily turns MPs into people who want to be people above the citizens and above the people. 21 As an MP, every meeting and conversation with the citizens is imputable to me, but we do not impute among the citizens to be marked in this way as a man whose own interest lies ahead of all other interests and interests of the citizens. I have no idea how to politicize with these sensitive things, and I don't need any political points in this way. It is more important to me than that as an MP, heads up can walk the street and that without mortgages and moral stains I can talk to every citizen of this country, which I believe is an interest to all of us here. For this reason, I think that the legislators of this law should withdraw from the procedure and build it up in the section relating to pension-qualification rights, so that all the proposed privileges in the retirement of MPs are reduced to a minimum. MPs cannot and must not be separated from the citizens in this way and we must share the fate of the citizens who chose us. So I can't support this law even as a good basis for second reading and amendment action. I repeat, I think the motive, and obviously here is the stumbling block around this law, the part that applies to privileged retirement conditions and privileged pensions. I am therefore not against the need to pass this law, but I think that in this part of the law there must be significant changes that are difficult to implement in the amendment phase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18050	Thank you. The second vice-chairman, honourable MEP Belkić. Let the honourable MP Križanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18051	I, in a way, express the views of the Party for BiH, or our club, regarding this law. So we studied very carefully the content and consequences that this law can produce. Of course, by respecting the right of MPs of all, including our own, to initiate appropriate initiatives in accordance with business procedures and opportunities, together with other MPs, but we have assessed that this project should not be supported, for two reasons. So, first of all, certain concrete solutions are unacceptable because they jump out of some standards and acceptability at all. And secondly, this law, according to us, is unnecessary because over 90% of things are governed by other laws or regulations. I mean, above all, the Electoral Law, the Rules of Procedure, the Law on Conflict of Interest, since the Code of Conduct that we are about to pass and this system law for all institutions in BiH, so I'm thinking about the Law on Payments in BiH Institutions. I want to point out another thing that is very often accepted here in some way and becomes a way of thinking. Therefore, Article 19 of this Law states that they are practically on professional work, by definition, chairing two deputies, and that everything else is a matter of will and personal decision by Members, or their request. This associates a man, i.e. this Parliament 22 sees as an amateur society, or a volunteer society, which, in my opinion, is inadmissible. So, on the one hand, we can critically discuss receipts and all other types of compensation, which is what we are talking about today, but on the other hand, we need to decide what kind of parliament we want. Will the Parliament, in which people will come and occasionally, or do we want a serious institution that implies a commitment to all types of affairs that are understood when it comes to Parliament's activities? Here, therefore, the BiH Party MPs will not support this project.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18052	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18053	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to present in the shortest possible terms the SDP Club's commitment to this bill. We have, in a certain way, referred to this bill when we also discussed the wage proposal in BiH institutions and pointed to the fundamentally incorrect proposal of this law. We are leaving, namely, that the time in which the adoption of this law for BiH and this parliament is being initiated is very bad. Looking at the general stalemate of reforms, the country's general state of affairs, the social and political and economic that you want, this bill violates all possible proportions of the relationship of life in BiH. The provisions of the law itself, as counterpart Belkić said, are poorly paraphrased provisions of the Election Law, the Law of Conflict of Interest and the Rules of Procedure, as well as a future code which, I hope,... we will soon adopt. That is why we believe that the concepts and principles of the law are poorly set, that it is impossible to amend them, and here I want to express the decadent position of the SDP Club that we will be against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18054	The First Vice-President, Mr. Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18055	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests, here I was in need, as well as the distinguished representative of Hadžiahmetvoić, to say that I am not on the list of those who have proposed this law. It's probably why this law is subject to this kind of criticism, because I suppose it would have been better if I had made my constitutional contribution to this, this legal solution that we are actively trying to attack and to run different forms and types of campaigns,...and for that reason, respecting the good intentions of the promoter to make this very sensitive area legally defined, means, legally defined, but respecting the views of those who think it's not 23 good or this, and not much else regulated by law, I have concluded that it is more appropriate to join this second than this first one. And I, with all due respect to the proposal's efforts to write at all what they have written, invite them collegiately to withdraw this bill from the procedure, and since it is the largest number of members of our Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, who, without this law and without other laws, make decisions on our truly enormously high incomes, nothing deserved, I agree with this, I suggest that at the first next session, I open the debate and I make a concrete proposal to make a decision that no MP in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has the right to professional status, no chairman or deputy, no representative has any right to a flat-rate supplement, that no representative has the right to a warm meal, no representative has the right to a single life, and no material right. So, such a proposal, I ask you to propose to this Parliamentary Assembly, and I will support such a proposal with all my heart. So, to really establish a way of working here... without any compensation. And I'm ready for something like that, so... and we work responsibly. And not that here... we're competing who's going to explain how something is more embarrassing, etc. Let's try and do it like that. Perhaps the results of this House will be better then. So here, in that sense, I thank the proposings and I call them truly, for my sake -- I appreciate that they had an honest intention, but not to be thrown out by further labels, etc. - to withdraw this proposal from the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18056	Dear MP Izetbegović next reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18057	Thank you. So, an MP from 50 years of age and 20 years of retirement would have paid more than 3.000,00 if he passed this Law of Salaries. Well, it's not a demagogy, people, to say it's not right. In this country, those who separate us from their salaries, those miners, those iron workers, you, they turn every brand upside down. A man who has less than 1,000,00 wages should be well, well extended from 1st to 30th of the month. And then he finds out that the MP himself decided that when he was 50, healthy, whole, he allowed himself to retire and to have some pension of two or three thousand marks. It's so clear that it has to cause anger in people. And it's no demagogy to realize that's the case. This should be the most conscious part of the Bosnian Herzegovina society. They chose us to solve their problems, not to solve our problems properly. Therefore, the SDA will be against the adoption of this law. I suggest that the promoters pull him out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18058	A small problem because none of the motionaries have explained the law, so no one is authorized to withdraw on behalf of all the promoters but... no one has applied for the debate anymore. I'm closing the debate. 24 Moving to the eighth point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in BiH (first reading) The proposal for this law was delivered by the Council of Ministers in the procedure on 25 May 2008. On 2 April, the Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis as well as on the principles of the draft law, as a competent commission. I am opening a debate in my first reading and calling on the Proposer in front of the Council of Ministers: do you need to explain the proposal? There isn't. The second deputy chairman, Mr. Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18060	Here, of course, I am and I am sure and most of you will support these amendments and additions to this law, but I would like to point out one practice which therefore explains that we very quickly, that is, those who propose the laws, and we who adopt them through the procedure, in some ways miss some things, and then, post-festum, we find and therefore we do changes and supplements. So here the proposer himself says that they are sort of correcting conceptual errors in the law, the existing law, so when it comes to equality before the law and when it comes to justice as a principle to be followed when the law is passed. So one category of people was privileged to another category of people. So, I just want to say that the creation of basic legal proposals really has to make sure that these mistakes don't happen, which we later fix. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18061	No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the ninth item of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of BiH (First Reading) 25 On 20 March 2008, the Council of Ministers submitted to the procedure a bill from this point. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis and on the principles on 2 April. I am opening a debate in my first reading and calling on representatives of the Council of Ministers. Do you need an explanation? Honorable Minister Mr. Nović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18063	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, we have witnessed the fact that there is no individual in BiH today who has not heard the word CIPS. In the past period since the launch of this project in early 2001, I have been associated with a large number of events in BiH so that today, in ordinary speech, the CIPS, the CIPS ID card, and so on. Unfortunately, a concept such as the CIPS's ID card, which has not been defined by law anywhere, appears daily in competitions, advertisements, and even in interstate agreements. In a situation like this, it's completely lost sight of what the CIPS represents and why is it launched? In early 2000, BiH had a fully developed system of issuing personal documents that had only a unique passport pattern but a completely divided system for five years after the tragic conflict. This would probably remain a problem that would have been solved today, if certain global events had not occurred that had affected the full access to the systems of personal documents at global level after 11 October 2001, and until today, a complete revolution is taking place on a global scale in the access to citizens' records and personal documents around the world. The events of September 11th showed that national personal documents systems are not reliable, do not guarantee full security and should have been resolved differently. Of course, this fact has affected the international community's universal assistance and supervisory approach to developing a new system of BiH citizens' records. It is thus decided to approach the development of the CIPS project and the adoption of a set of laws that are in line with international standards. Although the legal basis was established, it was very difficult to implement such a project during that period, so it joined the search for a solution for the project to be implemented. The solutions that are still current are such that complete technical support is carried out by an institution established on a temporary basis. In fact, you know that the Council of Ministers established the CIPS with its decision on the temporary basis of 2000, which, due to the size of the work, the complexity of the procedures and the continued work, became an inevitable factor and thus quietly became the most significant almost institution of BiH. In view of the need for the final regulation of the CIPS status and the need to establish and organise it in line with needs, and in particular to address the status issues of employees, to make available financial resources, to further extend jurisdiction and to connect them to a single system, it has led to a legitimate need to approach the final resolution of this issue. This ministry, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, was therefore not afraid that 26 would be caught in solving one of the most complex, I would say, the most responsible issues. First of all, an act has been adopted on the organisation and systematization of the CIPS to avoid further devastating consequences for the institution's work, in order to look at the work system and introduce full financial discipline. The result of improvisation, among other things, is the fact that everyone in BiH today thinks the CIPS is issuing personal documents. So I want, first of all, to make it very clear that the CIPS does not issue personal documents. The CIPS is merely technical support that creates unique conditions, in accordance with the standards for personalisation and technical processing of identification documents, such as ID cards, identity cards for foreigners, driving licences, travel documents, vehicle registration documents and other identification documents. Personal documents are issued by the interior ministry and all activities on this matter have been defined by other laws. It is precisely the legislative proposal that is in front of you today that fully regulates the status regarding the complete process of issuing personal documents. What is very important is that the law establishes a BiH-level Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of BiH, rather than some decisions. The agency is defined as a administrative organisation within the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, sets out its work, way of funding, access, data transfer and exchange, organisation and management methods and all other important issues for the functioning of this agency. The law clearly gives jurisdiction to the future agency and regulates the existing situation which has not been regulated, or established so far. This creates a complete institutional basis in order to overcome the situation in which this Parliament has also reached conclusions and related to business risks and audit reports. However, it goes one step further in this law. Proposals for legal solutions are based on the application of European and global standards and regulations related to the area of personal documents and, finally, the introduction of biometric travel documents, which will allow BiH to have a sustainable and institutionally regulated status in this area. What needs to be pointed out in particular is that this law creates a basis for a technically better system of identification records, data exchanges but at the same time removes the shortcomings observed in the previous period and that have led to the situation in this area being mildly confusing in BiH. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for this law has indeed been made in the light of lessons learned from the previous period, the current situation in this area in BiH and best practice from developed countries, and I ask you to contribute to the final completion of the reform of the area of personal documents and support the proposal for this law. Rightly so, today we can say that we have a good system to protect personal documents. By introducing biometric passports, BiH will undoubtedly receive one of the most modern passports that today... have all the countries of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18064	Thank you, Minister. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18065	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, we support everything that will enable citizens and not only citizens but also institutions to complete their work, which is why they are formed. I had some consultations before... the Law on the Information Society in BiH which had similar tasks but... completely, therefore, should have taken over some of the responsibilities of the Directorate and then we were against, so, that is, the CIPS Directorate was against,... or part of the Directorate, however you wish, to transfer some of these responsibilities to this Information Society Act. Today we have a slightly different situation, in which the Directorate is practically growing up, as I could understand here, in one part of the pre-growing means to this agency. My question is: After this, since the property of the Directorate and the equipment and other rights, does it become property and rights and obligations of the Agency? In other words, after this, so we don't have an agency anymore, uh, we don't have a direkcija, right, CIPS? Be careful, here in Article 24(4), says: State officials in the CIPS Project Implementation Directorate will be taken over into the Agency, in accordance with the Law on Civil Servants in BiH Institutions, and other employees in accordance with the Law on Labour in BiH Institutions. So, I'm left with a dilemma about whether this agency will have more employees than the Directorate has today, or if it's planned? Does this mean that everyone who is employed in the Directorate today has a secure job, or that no one will be left without a job by turning the Directorate into the Agency? And, in other words, what further the role of the CIPS project is in all of this, i.e. what is the role of the CIPS, since it is said here in one place in the law that part of the CIPS is also being taken over. In fact, it's not clear whether there's any way after this when the Directorate grows over, is there even a CIPS project in BiH?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18066	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18067	Mr. Chairman, I didn't expect you to call me so soon, but anyway, thank you. My colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, the PDP will support this law. I can also express the satisfaction that the ministry has finally realised that it is necessary to regulate this issue by law. I won't repeat those words of the minister when he stressed that what used to be called the CIPS had long overcome the frameworks of that document. I want to remind you that this document was made, it seems to me, on only one page, and not all of it, and you yourself know what this is all that this project is, it was a project... what this project is all about. The fact that we, i.e. some MPs in this assembly did not adopt one law, is the Law on the Information Society Agency, only because there was no understanding at that time that 28 Data Protection Agency, or at that time we called it the CIPS, should be singled out into one special agency, given the type of jobs and the scale of jobs that the agency should carry out. So, if I don't spend a lot of time right now, this is the first reading, the party I belong to is standing up and supporting this project in the second reading. Of course, we may appear with certain amendments if we feel that we can fix a text that's on the agenda somewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18068	Thank you. No more reports. Minister, do you need to answer the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18069	I should like to say very briefly to Ambassador Novaković. When it comes to justifiable thinking whether everyone in the CIPS today will also be in the Agency's membership or whether someone will be out of a job, just a little reminder. I found myself at the Ministry of Civil Affairs, that is, within the framework of the CIPS, one systematization, which could not be called systematicisation, with 16 employees, permanent employees, and in that same CIPS worked over 120 people under the Treaty of Action. So, what did we have to analyze? We had to first see if this number of people really needed the CIPS and what they were doing individually, and then we approached the adoption of an act on the organisation and systematization of the CIPS as a whole and systematized a number of places, and these places are being filled in succesively. So there is no fear that all those who are constantly employed in the CIPS today and probably one number more people will also be admitted to this agency. Basically, the Agency is something wider than the CIPS itself was, because it has grown simply for a long time, it has grown itself into the Agency de facto and this is now simply to set things legal, so that, as it is in the whole world, such a project no longer works on the welfare of BiH citizens. Of course, this agency doesn't treat the Information Society Agency either, these are two completely different things that are likely to happen in the second ministry, the Ministry of Communications. The question is being considered whether and how this issue will be resolved. So I think this is an extremely important moment for making the most qualitative solutions to identification documents, and we know that they are the key to the security of each country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18070	Thank you. Does anyone else need to discuss this? Dear Ambassador Kalabić has been reported here, but, well, I thank you very much. We're closing the debate. 29 We move to the 10th point of the agenda: Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of BiH (first reading) The law was delivered on 31 March 2008 by the Council of Ministers. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis on 22 April 2008. The Joint Defence and Security Commission is in charge. We received our opinion on the principles on 24 April and the commission accepted the principles. I'm opening a debate. Is there any need for anyone outside the Council of Ministers? There isn't. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda: Ad. 11. Proposal for a law on the control of the movement of arms and military equipment, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18073	The bill is in front of the Council of Ministers, but I'm really surprised that despite the fact that we have a negative report that none of the restoring ministries co-ordinated this activity, because I see that a working group has worked and a number of subjects have been involved, does not go out for a pay phone and does not explain to the MPs what this is about. In fact, it is a very, very important law, a very important law whose content, i.e. the functions it establishes, that is, no one is working in full capacity at this time. People can say doing some, something, part of that entity police work these, they do, but as a project, as a whole in the state, we don't have control of the movement of weapons. That's one fact. Second, these are the obligations arising from certain documents, instructions, etc. It stands here, truth be told, that the representatives of the RS MUP did not participate in the work, i.e. they were appointed but did not participate in the work of this task force that created this bill. 30 I call indeed, if they are present here, to explain to the MPs what this is about, how we have come into the situation, how he went to the Council of Ministers, whether it is consensus, most of it, whether it is not etc. But I know one thing: that this law is necessary and that the practical function, completely, control of the movement of arms and military equipment, can only be done by the state. Is it necessary to implement the alignment, transmission procedure, etc.? I don't mind, but this is a function that only a state in full capacity can do. I'm afraid we're missing the chance to give her that opportunity.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18074	Dear Ambassador Okolić, here you are, so Izetbegović can prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18075	Dear Members of Parliament, representatives of the Council of Ministers, Ministers and Deputys and other representatives of NGOs, means of information, international community, dear guests, here I will agree that this is a very important matter with the previous debater and that is why my remark and greater, which is so unprepared for the bill on the control of the movement of arms and military equipment, which has been known in advance to experience this fate, given in the procedure, because it is possible, it is evident that it is not agreed at the entity level, or entities already implementing this law. Of course, the international community's activity here has now been determined, the EUPM should be removed and this law regulates the control of the movement of weapons and military equipment on BiH territory. And I certainly cannot support this law in this form because we have a clear statement from the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia which shows that they did not participate in the drafting of this document, or this bill for the reasons set out here, and it is also evident that those specific jobs that are listed here and doing. However, given that it is a really serious matter, I suggest that the motionor, most likely this law today will not experience the fate of passing, and probably not in the amendment phase, if it goes through in the first reading, so perhaps to consider, withdraw and that this is indeed a matter that is very important to agree with entity bodies that control the movement of arms and military equipment and to come up with a single attitude if a new law on this control is needed. As in our proposal here, I doubt it will receive entity support and then experience the fall of the law and will not be able to treat this matter for a certain time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18076	Dear Ambassador Izetbegović, did you have a need? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18077	So, it is out loud... that the government at the state level, including this Parliament and the Council of Ministers, is like some inefficient government that cannot possibly pass those laws that are necessary. Here is the law insists EUFOR: how to transfer from Banja Luka, for example, to Bijelja's weapons? Do you need three permissions to be removed? I mean, sometimes I find it capricious... that, needless to actually make some brakes, some obstacles, some problems. I really don't see 31 reasons for the commission to stop this. So this law and what's going on with it is for me an example of what we're not supposed to do and what we're actually doing and how we're making ourselves a picture of ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18078	No more reports. ... You are, yes, go ahead. Huskić, honourable Ambassador Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18079	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I've been watching this session the whole time and I've been trying not to say anything, but I really have to say, I feel demagogue in the air here, like I can cut myself with a knife, with a razor. I've never attended a session like this before, and I suggest we take a break, some... I don't think we can do this, my people. I'm really convinced of that. Look, this is the third law that falls here that came from the Council of Ministers. The Law of Denationalization in the House of Peoples has fallen, this previous... amendment to the Law of Reference to Peace Operations, this one has fallen. Seems like it's best to be demagogue around here and pretend like a fool. And then, it seems that's what the people want, unfortunately, which is even worse. I'm really thinking about voting against all the laws here, let's see what happens here. Really, against everything. And the best thing goes is the one who's against it. Whoever's for... everyone's looking at him, they're looking for a hair in his egg, he's pulling on four, let's all be against everything, let's see what we do. Here, I'll be against all points today when it's voted. Thank you. There, I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18080	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18081	I will, of course, vote for some laws, some against and so on from law to law, but I didn't get up for it. As I propose to Parliament to reject this negative report from the Commission, this is an important thing that Mr Belkić spoke of. I am now performing on behalf of the Commission for Defence and Security who stopped this law, or gave a negative opinion. It is true that on the Commission, from representatives of Serbian people's colleagues, there has been an objection to whether this is a transfer of competence from entity to country or not. People at the Ministry of Security claim this is not a transfer of jurisdiction but that people from the Ministry of Security are invited from entity structures to participate in the creation of this law. It will be an ugly message if Parliament rejects the Law on the Control of the Movement of Military Equipment and Weapons. This is a request... EUFOR, we need this for everyone in BiH. Defence and arms are the subject of state institutions. It's a familiar thing. I think it would be wise to agree here today to bring down this negative report, bring back the matter to the Commission, and then the Commission along with the Ministry, well, if we have to with the entity 32 structures, and we're going to need dialogue, debate, make, if necessary, amendments, and then come into a position that we have the law. We'd better go this way, rather than take him down and get the Council of Ministers to sit down again and lead this procedure, to keep the law alive like this. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18082	Thank you. No more reports. Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18083	Well, I have to respond to these few remarks. As regards the comments, the comments are essential and clear. I guess someone should have taken care of them before. I mean, that's a fact, we're where we are. The attitude of the MPs is clear, and no one should underestimate him or treat him as some other attitudes. We made that clear, and for a reason, whoever was supposed to take care of it probably didn't. And it doesn't need to be attributed to the MPs. Today, we had a situation or legal proposal in a procedure signed by two-thirds of the club members, so he asks to withdraw. I mean, if we're talking about demagogy. So we don't need us when we get into this situation to look for the current exit when the remarks are completely clear and justified. And we've warned that before. And that's how it's known how things are brought here as a positive result, which is applied. Whenever that method doesn't apply, we get into this situation. And the outcome here is known, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18084	Thank you. No more reports. We're closing the debate. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda: Ad.12. Discussion: - Annual Report by the Central Bank of BiH for 2007, - Financial Report by the Central Bank of BiH for 2007 You received the annual report on 20 April and the Financial Report on 31 March 2008. These reports were considered by the Finance and Budget Commission as competent and the Commission's report was submitted on 23. As you have seen, the Commission unanimously supported these reports and forwarded them to the House for adoption. I'm opening a debate. I thank the representative. Business intervention: Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18086	I suggest that the governor address the assembly before our discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18087	I don't know what the intervention was when I called and said we had a Central Bank representative. I ask him if he'll turn around. You, before I say so, are already looking for business intervention. So it is my custom to always ask those present first whether the report will comment, and then the MPs will say so.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18088	Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18089	You like a lot of things. Do you have a need? Here you go. Governor of Central Bank Mr. Kozarić, please. Wait a minute, there's something wrong with the microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18090	It's good now. Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, MPs, I would certainly take this opportunity because, here, once a year, the Central Bank will be the subject of your debate, your attention, and I think our Annual Report and the Financial Report deserve, I would say, an introductory presentation that will be very brief but I think I will try to give these main characteristics of the report and some macroeconomic indicators of BiH. We have made the Annual Report which was intended to cover, I would say, the economic picture of the region, and in particular we have given attention to, whether, the situation in BiH. Here, just for a little while, for a reminder. I want to say that the Central Bank of BiH has managed to maintain monetary stability in 2007, and here are the main macroeconomic indicators: we have a GDP in 2007 of 21 billion KM, the rate of real GDP growth will be around 6.2%. We've finished inflation for a year of 4.9%. You know – yes, it is small – an open economy such as BiH suffers from these external shocks and that mainly because of energy and food prices, did we mark this inflation that continued in this year and March we have a 7.1% inflation rate. Surely not only can this phenomenon be monitored but it needs certain measures, and the measures are obviously on the side of the real sector, so all BiH governments should find instruments to fight this situation which is otherwise in the environment, because they also have other countries around us that are also this problem, and there is an increase in inflation in the EU. Also, this foreign debt of BiH was 3.9 billion. It's lower by 167 million and we've served orderly all our obligations, no day late, which clearly says BiH is a moderately in charge of the country. So the public debt is cca 2 billion euros and this is certainly another chance for BiH. And if she gets into these big projects, she can use this situation in a certain way. The foreign exchange reserves recorded a record level and we recorded a level of six billion and 700 million or over five billion dollars. We've got free reserves somewhere around $400 million. And we've recorded a record profit of 148.7 million. From that we transferred in April of the month for 34 support to state institutions 59.5 million KM. Two negative macroeconomic indicators and perhaps the two biggest problems for BiH are the major external trade deficit, cca 8 billion KM. Here's just to tell you how much we import certain product groups that mostly affected this external trade deficit: first of all, mineral fuels and oil 1,500,000, or 18.6%; machines, appliances and mechanical devices 964,000 or 11.9%; vehicles other than rail vehicles, 939,000,000 or 11.6%; pharmaceutical products 291.0% or 3.6%; drinking, alcohol and other products, 291.0% or 3.6%; cereals 291.0% or 3.6%; various food products 170,000,000 or 2.1%. I'm saying all this because we also produce a series of these products in BiH, such as water, tobacco products, beer, etc. food, and I don't think the authorities analyse this external trade deficit enough, and that there is no substitution of imports. I think this is actually a guideline to analyse this deficit and see if it's food production and what segments, whether it's support for the pharmaceutical industry that we have in BiH, whether it's domestic beer, whether it's domestic tobacco products. I think... we have a non-selective approach to this, and that's why this deficit is happening to us. Fortunately for us, in the same period, foreign reserves are growing and so this deficit still has sources of funding. First of all, these are foreign accounts that are over 3 billion, then we have, I would say, in the last year of direct foreign investment 2.9 billion and loans that are third, is the deficit financing segment. Of course, what I'm saying about diaspora, we have to, I'd say, do more work with the diaspora and not just be money senders, but actually come as investors, give them some relief, give them programs, and have a stronger contact with our diaspora, because it's obviously one of the main sources. On the other hand, you know that the second generation will already have a weaker relationship with the country, with BiH, so we must use... I would say, this situation and work with our people who are abroad, which are a significant factor, I would say, the BiH economy. What do you say in the end? We said, however, that as a monetary institution -- whether, behold, honourable MP Belkić mentioned independence, exactly -- as an independent institution, without any political pressure, on either side, we met our own, I would say, function and we maintained this monetary stability, and here these numbers say that we were quite successful last year. Here, I'm at your disposal, if you think you need to ask me something, I'm here, so here's so much for the introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18091	I thank the esteemed Governor of Central Bank. The following has been registered for discussion by the esteemed MP Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18092	...some things that were on the commission. First of all, the commission rated the report as very positive, professional and well done. The indicators, you saw alone, foreign exchange reserves 6.7 billion, 22.9% higher than last year, inflation is 4.9 and... we are on the commission, worrying that in March the growth trend is 7.1%), meaning uncontrolled inflation has, and it should be concerned, and above all I think the Council of Ministers and Commission has, among other things, taken up in its 35 discussions that the Council of Ministers should, on the basis of this report, make a programme of measures for monetary and economic stability, in particular, to stop inflation and reduce the interest rate. We know that these reasons are external... food on the world market 4%, oil barrel price is also a deficit. So the government can, by encouraging domestic production, subsidies, social programs, not that it can and must react because we can come to a very difficult economic situation. Based on this report, it is evident that the macroeconomic situation is not as bad as some want to show. It means funds, no projects. We need an ambience. I hope now that we sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement that we will have a much better and more favourable business environment and that investments will still come and, as we say, more investment, more investments, more factories, more employment for all of us. Once again, I thank the Central Bank's management for this good report, and now it is up to the Council of Ministers to learn certain lessons, analyses and propose measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18093	Thank you. The following has been registered for discussion by the distinguished representative Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18094	Here, Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the Central Bank report is certainly an opportunity for the BiH public to get acquainted with the most important macroeconomic developments and indicators in BiH, but this report also contains a lot of quality information that tells us that our environment, what are the opportunities in our wider environment and what are world movements, which is certainly very important and important because it has direct implications for opportunities with us. What is good and what we can say is that it is good and encouraging is the fact that it is retained, as is said, monetary stability. The fact that our country's debt is insignificant, we are in a line of less than medium-indebted countries, which is good. That saving citizens is growing, that it has never been bigger, that foreign reserves are solid -- big ones, they've never been bigger. But also, what is worrying is that it is not good and that we should be warned and, above all, it should be a signal to the Council of Ministers, but also to all other levels of government in BiH, as well as to all of us that there are also some negative trends and movements that must be a warning to us. So, for example. The external trade deficit is almost 8 billion marks, which is equal to plenty. Here it is said and the real question arises: How have we been covering such a significant external trade deficit for years? So it is said in the report, and Mr. Kozorić also said that these are signs from abroad that are somewhere over 3 billion, but still from 3 to 8 billion is a very big difference and I'm afraid that what our citizens have and own as some sort of, therefore, reserve to melt a little bit. Of course, anything that melts, one day it melts, and it would be necessary and necessary to work on doing everything to create such a climate in BiH that is encouraging and will encourage investment, investment that will bring of course greater employment, and then all other positive effects in terms of increasing production,... increasing exports and repairing the external trade deficit. Investments, especially the sides, I think that this is one chance for BiH which has not been used enough and that all levels and institutions of government should do what is in their domain and that 36 do, therefore, to facilitate the resolution of all issues in relation to business registration, to make the administration the most, I would say, professionally and to reduce the time and procedure for business registration, to do everything and to encourage investment, especially the foreign, but also domestic. What is particularly concerned is the fact that new investments or in English "greenfield" are not enough to have a trend of reduction. Therefore, these other investments and joint ventures of foreigners are not in the needed trend, i.e. they do not have the necessary growth. That is why it is not so concerned about imports as much as it is that our exports do not grow, that the imbalance does not increase but does not decrease to a sufficient extent. What is particularly important and important, and I think that the Council of Ministers and other levels of government may need to coordinate more because of this specific constitutional structure of BiH that it is. I think, above all, at the constitutional competences of certain levels of government, they must make better and better mutual cooperation and make quality strategies and policies, which will provide a better and more favourable investment environment. I think that this Parliament, too, is here when this item of the agenda is current, I think we should go one way and commit the Council of Ministers to do one good and quality co-operation with entity authorities and county authorities and then edit and do one strategy... what is necessary to do, how to make a better and better environment for investment. I think it's crucial for BiH and then we're going to have this larger GDP increase which is 6.2 which is good and is better in the region, etc. However, with such a small GDP overall, the rate of 6.2% of growth is good, but it should be better, if we want, and we want, we have ambition, to achieve at least these medium-developed countries in the EU. I think that's why BiH has assumptions and we need to do everything we can to speed it up. Here, I really wouldn't be longer than, in the end, I'd conclude with that, if I didn't think in the next period, one of these strategies had been made if we'd missed the chance to do what's most important. And in the end, I'll just say two more sentences. Inflation is a fact that has been present for the last year, two or three, and in particular for one year and that burdens very significantly all layers in our country, especially those that are in need of social assistance. Inflation of 4.9%... for last year is not so great, but I am afraid and here I think that this year will not end, at least such announcements in the environment, end with such an inflation rate. So it's expected to be bigger and we've already said the same thing for the period, so the third month last year, the third month of this year, we've already got over 7% inflation, which is already a significant amount of inflation. I think we should keep this in mind. And here is another contribution to my thinking and claim that the Council of Ministers in cooperation with entity authorities and county should adopt a clear strategy and policy of overall economic development and, of course, one part of it will be the fight against poverty, that is, the response to inflationary movements. It is not simple and we, of course, will have to be aware that we depend on opportunities in the environment and trends, but still to help for at least a short time until some things are better, those most endangered layers of BiH society. Here, so much, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18095	Thank you. The next entry was made by the esteemed second Vice-President Belkić. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18096	I absolutely agree with the majority of predecessors who, through this report and the introduction of the governor, have come to the realization that the report and the introduction of the governors have enabled them to in full, in some ways, to see the overall environment, the economic environment in BiH and to see through indicators that are indicated here, etc. some lessons can be learned, etc. But I'll talk about something else. So why am I going to support the Central Bank report? I think that through the report we could see that the basic functions, which are the central bank's obligations for which it exists, were practically executed. So, above all, ensuring the stability of the monetary system and the reliability and efficiency, efficient functioning of payment traffic, is one of the very important environments for investment in the country, development, etc. ... We have to agree, despite the attempts that were evident, the rules of the Currency Committee were maintained. There are still different thoughts, but... fortunately, the rules of the Currency Committee were maintained. It is also clear from the report that the Central Bank has given support to the development of the financial sector and financial stability, over the longer term, through an increase in reserve liabilities by 18%. It is also visible, unlike earlier years etc. when the Central Bank was practically our only source for some more serious economic parameters and indicators, we see that now the bank, together with the Statistics Agency, is working to establish a system, a quality and consistent system of statistics... in BiH which is also good and one of the functions, so to speak, of the Central Bank. Also from the report you could see that... practically the second phase of the implementation of the Central Credit Register is being brought to an end. It can also... be recorded and determined that the fiscal agent's function is successfully executed by the Central Bank, by having to help it... fully perform that function as a state fiscal agent. That's why I asked the parliamentary question today because of the non-selective and discriminatory decisions in the application of the Law on Old Foreign Savings, or the issue of bonds. In the end, the financial result that the Central Bank has achieved in the amount of 59,000 is also respectable and deserves respect. This will make us, i.e. the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance, even make a rebalancing in a positive sense, because it is 9 million more than we have in Budget in 2008. And, not everything... so idyllic, one little remark. So, 10 years of the existence of the Central Bank should, of course, be registered, registered, but should not give it any special importance in terms of indicating who was talking, who was where what, who was in that sense and the team was doing something about it. I suggest management wait 50 years, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18097	Thank you. The following has been reported to the esteemed representative Halid Genjac. Wrong! Next distinguished representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18098	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here I am in preparation for this item of the agenda to carry out certain consultations, including with some members of the Management Board or Councils and Management, and I have come to some knowledge, 38 which is that this Central Bank report I can single out as one example of the report submitted to this Parliament in relation to other reports of the joint bodies and institutions that did not experience what they were supposed to experience in this Parliament, which is a passing assessment and their work to be assessed as being evaluated and to continue working on the same team next year. I also came up with this information why it's about that, and that's what really surprised me, and that I'd like it to be an example for others to understand that this is the only way that it might be possible for them to work in this BiH, and not in any other way, by voting or by some pressure. And that's, as far as I have the knowledge that no decision has been made without consensus on these organs, and that's what I'm really looking forward to. I also know that certain decisions have come, i.e. proposals for decisions that have been disputed for one of these board members or management, but also that they have made an effort to return it, to agree to reach a final solution by consensus. That's what's really positive for me and for what it's supposed to be. Furthermore, I would suggest that this report be better presented to the public in an appropriate way, that it be fully familiar with what, here's to say by quotes, what is being lived on. I am very interested in how much media attention this Annual Central Bank Report will receive! And how many shows we're going to make about this topic so that citizens will not only be through this kind of information that they're informed about, do we know that they can't all come up with this information for more reasons or for not knowing or not handling the Internet or something else. It would be good to inform them on some shows, so they can give – political or economic issues, etc. - that they too can make their remarks, suggestions for the future work of such an important institution, i.e. to know where BiH is in this area of living. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18099	Thank you. Reported in line: Ambassador Izetbegović, Hadžiahmetović, Erić, Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18100	So again, we have a good comprehensive Central Bank report. ... The indicators are good. I don't think the public is aware of this, and I think maybe we should go out to some press conference, get to know the public, so that we have a rise and good trends about everything that's positive in gross national income in salary growth, pensions... that we have a stable currency, that, therefore, we have a particular increase in employees. The percentage of RS employees could even be said to be dramatic by about 6% compared to 2006. We also have some stronger inflation that is bigger than the interest we receive from the invested funds in stable European banks. What I would like to ask the esteemed governor, therefore, we have about 7 billion KM invested in stable European banks and thus safeguards the stability of our currency. That's the most important thing for the Central Bank anyway. These funds... therefore undeveloped BiH, which has economic problems, is kept in foreign banks, not in their own, are developing additionally strong and developed economies of these countries such as Belgium, England, Switzerland, Germany, etc., are not invested here in BiH and it is understandable why they are not. Is there any way that at least a fraction, 10% to 20%, of these funds through 39 return mechanisms, through loans that would give these banks and through guarantees, I don't know, point and spin the wheels of our Bosnian-Herzegovina economy, so not directly but indirectly through some kind of disarmament? Here, that's my question. So is this a real way, is it realistic to go in that direction at all? ... Mr. Governor, to give us an answer, if it is to try to do something with the Ministry of Finance, if anything, then most banal in Corridor Vc to try to pour in one billion... and start that project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18101	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18102	Thank you, Chairman. Let me only give a brief assessment of the good report of the Central Bank, the Annual Report, of course accompanied by the Financial Report, with one note. Unlike counterpart Beriz Belkić, I would not wish the Central Bank to celebrate 50 years but to be an integral part of the European System of Central Banks, or the European Central Bank, and that our Governor, one or another, be in the Board of Governors of the European Central Bank in 50 years. And in that sense, I would also ask a few questions, or I would draw attention to a few important things I value to mention in today's debate on the Central Bank's Annual Report. Firstly, in terms of meeting the convergence criteria in particular those criteria or coordinating activities, taking into account our special monetary arrangement on the Currency Board and the relationship of our currency with the euro, i.e. the European currency in the euro area, which is, in a way, related to the implementation of the monetary policy of the European Central Bank. Therefore, co-ordination, i.e. meeting the convergence criteria, which would allow us to be able, as soon as possible with Europeanisation in this real sector, also in terms of the conditions for entry and the European Monetary Union. Secondly, I would like to specifically ask one question, namely to draw attention to the need for slow growth, i.e. the announced slow growth in the European economy, because of the recession in the US economy and the warnings by the European Central Bank, I would also like to ask what our Central Bank is doing in terms of maybe pre-warning or creating some assumptions that we are resuscitating, to say, the negative effects of slow-down European growth, the European economy?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18103	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18104	Dear Ambassador Bešlagić, I would like to ask you because we are on the line of the quorum. There's 22 of us. ... 40
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18105	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18106	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18107	So how is this... a warning from the European Central Bank going to reflect on the Bosnian-Herzegovina economy? Secondly, given the World Bank’s warnings about the effects, the economic effects of oil price growth and, in particular, energy and food prices growth on the world market and warnings, i.e. instructions for all economies to draw up a single plan, to say, or a programme to warn negative effects, especially on monetary stability and, in that sense, I would suggest to the Central Bank, or to the team that it may also form a programme or possibly address the Council of Ministers, with an indication of urgency, the need to create such a single programme. I am particularly saying this, these two reasons, so the European Central Bank and warnings and the rise of food and energy prices on the world market, because we have been apostropheed by some statistics and the usual methodology as a country of very high degree of sensitivity to any recession or slowdown in economic growth in particular, especially in the European work. And secondly, I'm going to ask a question, of course, with one first piece of information for those who don't know. For reasons of cost reduction, the International Monetary Fund has decided to shut down residence offices in most countries and, unfortunately, BiH too. On the other hand, the resident office of the resident representative of the International Monetary Fund will most likely be closed by the end of May. Since we have a special monetary arrangement for the Currensy Board which is part of, I say, the International Fund's engagement, my question to the governor: How will the Central Bank and Currensy Board function in the coming period and could there possibly be some difficulties, given this new institutional circumstance? And the issue regarding the supervisory of the banking sector at the state level and the use of the open market operation mechanism, given,... let's say, currency board is a softer one, or a softer, gradual softing of this rigid monetary arrangement already gives our central bank the opportunity to use these mechanisms. Do you and... if you're not using, why don't you use such mechanisms in terms of stimulating economic activity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18108	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Erić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18109	And I'd like to join in with praise when it comes to this report. We discussed him on the committee and we had a lot of questions, and as far as we're concerned, I think we're done with 41. What I would like to draw attention to - and Mr Jukić has said a lot in the direction I would extend, and he is related to this deficit - since this is a serious report and it really means it is what it is and we certainly accept it and support it as it is, to join some praise that this is an extra good condition, so I am not joining and I suggest that we really think about it, and I will ask the question later on: How do we welcome the next report? That's the most important question, I think all alarms are already on. When it comes to this deficit, I would ask a question, so why do we have a deficit in some goods, is it our ministries, the policies we run, and people who don't know how to work? I think there are a lot of legal regulations and ministries that make enormous mistakes and will certainly have catastrophic effects for the future. And it's about drinking, grains, pharmaceuticals, the train industry. Sure, in that field, we could have talked about a surplus, not talking about a 11.6-percent deficit or drink and food 3.6. Sure, big numbers! When we join this grey economy that's booming, working on black that's visible, then we certainly can't have the next report as it should be, and we're here to prevent it and to initiate it. So, like the people that the people have chosen. I therefore extend this proposal to my colleague Jukić: That the Council of Ministers draws up a report, a plan, and I suggest that our competent committees that have contact with these ministries really question this trend and that together with us, we give an initiative on how to get out of these problems. Why am I saying that? Because we have inflation, so it's already about 7%. More than 3% of inflation is meant for this country, which could live on three, four resources: water, forest, energy, and a few million inhabitants who should live in this one valley and say that we have one small town, not this many square miles and we complain. If we join that privatisation that ended 70% when that money was supposed to turn six or seven times, then we should certainly be the country that's supposed to sing. If we join the announcement that we are ready for such a trip, it means that we have roads, air traffic solved, eloquent, and we have not raised any questions in this field, that we certainly cannot welcome the next report with a smiley face! And I think we're gonna be late for some information. I would like to ask Mr. Director, meaning that inflation, if it continues – the governor, I apologize – if inflation continues, means what measures does the Central Bank mean, whether by printing KM, or any other measures? And let me ask, so of these 35 banks in BiH that operate, they work: What is their vision and assessment of the further investment of these banks in the Bosnian-Herzegovina economy? Thank you, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18110	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lijanović, and Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18111	Dear President, colleagues, fellow representatives, distinguished guests, this report is another alarm in the area of the external trade deficit and he is essentially saying that we as the 42 Parliamentary Assembly need to do something hasty, and here today we will have opportunities to see whether we are ready for such a thing, whether the Law on the Protection of Domestic Production will be adopted, which will in some way start to go towards reducing the external trade deficit where possible, and not that it continues to increase. If we look at page 37 of the current account deficit, which from 8.4% in 2006 increased to 13.1%) and on page 38 where essentially literature recommends that the 5% deficit is the sustainability limit, it also tells us that we are in an area that is not desirable at all. The current deficit is covered on the basis of signs of our refugees and on the basis of the sale of property created by someone in this country, and we know what kind of host lives from the sale of property and from the evidence of refugees. And I would ask a question to the esteemed governor: What awaits us if in the next three or four years, refugees return or in some way give up sending further information to BiH? In the meantime, state property is being sold and we have no more to sell. So what happens to us about economic indicators, and especially about converting marks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18112	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18113	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly a good... report and an example of how reports should be done and I agree with my colleagues, and on this report, that the Central Bank is in a position – is it possible that we can talk about some general economic developments, economic movements in BiH, and that on this basis we draw conclusions, and I agree with those colleagues who point to an alarming situation in certain areas outside the Central Bank, which is in a position to record and offer us through this report. And that we as Parliament, so here is our Council of Ministers, see what we do. I'm standing up here to ask a question. I'm not an expert in this economic field, and I may not know how to express myself professionally, but I know for a fact... that I noticed an appearance two or three months ago. So it began to whisper in BiH about the possible devaluation of KM. And you know when it starts to whisper about how things are going. I think that psychological effect in public... yes, in itself, if there is no adequate and real reaction at the right time, it can produce harmful consequences. Thank Bog the Central Bank, the governor and the board of directors responded immediately and gave a press release... and said of course there was no talk of devaluation of KM. But I would ask our governor to tell us something about it today. So this is the people's parliament, in the People's Dictionary, that the people... understand this thing, because it was very serious about it, I say, whispered in public two or three months ago. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18114	I don't have any more reports. There were questions. Is there a need for an esteemed governor to answer? Here you go. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18115	Dear MPs and MPs, here, I will try to answer 11 questions as much as I have recorded, and before that I want to thank everyone who participated in the discussion and who praised this report. In fact, the report is what it is and what it is like in BiH. So, we're neither making any sense, nor we're in charge of criticizing, but we're in charge of pointing to certain phenomena and most of these discussions... should actually be addressed to the Council of Ministers, there are a lot of questions for the Council of Ministers and entity governments, of course. But here's to me, what's up with us, saying what our attitude is. Dear MP Izetbegović asked me a question he had asked before... when it comes to foreign reserves. First of all, we have 6 billion and 700 million foreign exchange reserves, first of all, that we only... know what it is, what the structure of the foreign reserve is, and we will immediately get the answer: that they cannot be invested in domestic banks or in the country. So it consists of 3 billion as a cover for domestic currency, so that our KM has value. So, by the rules of the Currency Committee, we betray when we get equivalent in a solid currency. So it's a 100 percent coverage and we even have free reserves, I said, about 400 million. So every fening in the optics has its own solid cover and that's why you can change it into a bank: buy the euro, buy a dollar, buy a Swiss franc and, of course, sell it for your domestic currency. The other part of these funds are the funds of commercial banks: these are the reserves they are obliged... by the Central Bank Act to keep as a mandatory reserve. So you can't do that, and it's private banks and it's deposits of private companies and private persons, so you can't get those funds, is it... to re-enter those same banks. But there's another question that has... a full excuse for putting it in. It is evident that 600 million KM commercial banks hold over mandatory reserves a day, which means they don't have enough projects, they don't have programmes, they don't have anywhere to invest. It's one space and the other is the space of this free reserve. Free reserves can be talked about what and in what way, whether through state guarantees, whether... in contact with these world banks etc. ... So, that could be some kind of basis if we could get into some kind of story for some larger projects. When it comes to the convergence criteria or the popularly called master criteria, I can say that BiH meets four of the six master criteria. This is: first of all, so by master criteria, you can have an interest rate, you have to have an interest rate of no more than 2% of the EU average and we are somewhere close. So the country must have two: a fixed course before EU entry, we have a fixed course, the country must not have a large budget deficit, we are already recording a two-year budget surplus. But we have two macroeconomic indicators that are very hard to reach for BiH according to Mastrih, which is unemployment (you can't have more than 10% unemployment before you enter the EU, we have 29%, when we include the gray economy, unemployment) and the second is this foreign trade deficit that we've talked about a lot. You can't have more than 10% of GDP, here's someone who said exactly, the Honorable MP Lijanović said we have, yes, 13.8, which is true, yes. These are the two indicators where the authorities have to take a stand with this, with this... negativity, to try to solve it. When it comes to leaving, the end of the IMF and closing and... what happens to the Currency Committee? It is true that the IMF will close offices, 44 but not only in BiH, but in all countries where the state has no Stand by arrangement with them and will remain only local staff, i.e. Two people with one office that will be covered by Washington, but that won't affect the Currency Committee or our monetary policy, although they have helped us a lot, is it, in the beginning of the founding, in the law, etc. We run independently today, yes, and you lead. The BiH Parliament is the only one who can change... that model. You are... the law said there will be six years, and then the BiH Parliament will say which model will apply. And the BiH Parliament has brought to continue with this model, but has not armed it. So he doesn't, does he? some...rock than when conditions or conditions are created when there is a better economic situation, a better economic environment, a better political situation, then we can talk about softening the Currency Committee, taking some new functions, etc., etc. When it comes to state-level supervisory, it is known that... finance, is it in the area, in fact, constitutional, entity jurisdiction and that we cannot assume that function at the state level, without the consent of the entity's parliaments and today we do not have that agreement yet. Although,...I think it's high time, is it, to reopen the issue, because commercial banks, 32 of them, are active in the whole of BiH and today we have an entity supervisory vision and the Central Bank has increased coordination between these agencies and it works well so far and perhaps in that way, whether, this situation is overcoming but surely already in the EU are thinking about a supervisor, is it? ... Then this... supervisory vision, whether, cross-border supervisory vision, these are all trends that will surely... welcome BiH. You mentioned open market operations. We are forbidden by law to operate on the open market, by already entering the capital market as a fiscal agent, and that is, I would say, the initial one, is it, steps that we are going towards that softening of our model. And on the other hand,...and this free reserve, is it, is maybe space that we could be tomorrow, is it,...or the last resort bank that the other central banks are doing. So our primary task and this is this – someone asked: What will the Central Bank do in this environment now and these turbulences and these mortgage loans? - is to establish monetary stability and maintain the stability of the financial sector, which we have achieved so far, and what we are doing. Of course, how to fight – the question was also of the honourable MP – with inflation? We won't print the money, we've got the money stamped almost as much as the optics, we've got so much in the vaults, but we don't put it into circulation without these rules so that someone doesn't pay off the equivalent in a solid currency. So there's no need to print it, we've got it stamped, but we're not going to let it go, it's illegal, it's not allowed, and we're not going to do it for sure. Be assured there's no way that one fening can get into the optics without covering. So, on the other hand, we're still going to have monetary stability, and as far as cost... on the side, we have to do what you said, I fully support. And I think it's a good initiative for MPs who have said to go to the Council of Ministers to make a strategy, to recognize where the substitution of imports can be done, to encourage domestic production, to make all that we can do here. And of course some of you, should I not say the centres that I may have... and on the commission have suggested to hold a meeting with this Board of Directors for indirect taxation. And there's a lot of, I'd say, solutions where they could get one of their own, is it, by their measures, to fix the situation that's right now. What happens if we don't get the refugees back and sell our property? First of all, I personally think that we should have one stronger relationship with the diaspora, and that the authorities at all levels should have. I said in the opening statement: we don't need them to feel like some money senders, but as potential investors, as people who already have great knowledge and capital, etc. And to open up opportunities for them, to present projects to them, and to invite them to come in 45 that way. It's good to have them back, it's good for young educated people who already have capital to return. So, they're welcome to BiH and I'm sure they need to be motivated in some way, is, to come back. Those who do not return, yes, it is safe, can again help with BiH's lobbying and presentation in the right way of BiH's potential. When do we sell state property? I think there's still a lot of state property, especially where the state owns under 50%, where there's no management rights, no profit participation, that this capital is dead and that it needs to go into privatisation and that these funds, of course, don't go into public spending, but go to new investments, open new jobs, open new opportunities, and thus encourage it. And especially these large systems that are still standing... at their disposal and I think there is still a great chance for BiH to invest these funds in the right way and encourage the investment cycle that is needed. Because apparently the state hasn't been able to open up some major public works by now. Commercial banking: 32 invested 11 billion in BiH. So, if we say that 6 billion savings, and yet it is 11 billion, it is clearly said that they have entered 5 billion capital and invested 50% of private companies, 50% of BiH citizens. If it hadn't been for this 6%, it wouldn't have been a lot less if it weren't for commercial banking. And that's why I think it played a very important role in rebuilding BiH, because it's the only source that, that capital, is still expensive. He is...probably unreachable for many, but I still think he plays an important role, because obviously we haven't been able to open up other modes, is it, that possibility? And I mean this..., here and finally I wrote here, I think it's really time – this is a clear recommendation as a citizen, and not as a governor of the Central Bank – that the economy be here for all of us... in the first place, less of this political disagreement or differences, and that economic matters, we agree and that we bring measures that will be in the interest of all BiH citizens. When it comes to devaluation, we did, there were exactly these talk or speculation at the beginning of the year, which could be devastating for the economy, because... it could have happened. Let's just say that we do these stress tests to make citizens lose confidence in their domestic currency and in the banking sector and the financial sector and to run into the reserve currency which could be a problem for this model that we have. That didn't happen, we reacted very quickly. And the law prescribed a solid course... domestic currency for the euro, so only you can say that it changes, so there's no way the Central Bank will do it alone or anyone else without you sitting here. So we have to have reasons, and the reasons don't exist because it would be a punishment for all BiH citizens and for all those who today have loans in banks and private businesses etc. So that would be one big one, I'd say, it certainly doesn't, and here I'm ordering from this place, I've already said it. Here, if I've succeeded,... most of these questions I've written down, it's a short time not to take you away, am I ready and... to come to the club and bilaterally or privately, however you like, to talk about these things. I'd be happy to respond to every call you've made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18116	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18117	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, gentlemen from NGOs, from the media, honourable governor, of course, I support your explanations, and I didn't want to report earlier because I suppose you can't give me the answer now, but I will ask you to prepare it. I don't know if you've met, but I've been informed by the Secretariat of this house that they've delivered my request to you at every session of this House. And that's that you take the obligation to deliver me the national structure of the employees, from the driver to you. So, precisely to me by name: Janko Janković, Marko Marković, Jozo Jozić, Mustafa Mustafić and what function they have. And now, you see, another question – because we do not want to wash our consciences through you or some of our agencies set up by this Parliament or the Council of Ministers – that there is a great crowd over these salaries. I will ask you and every institution established by the Council of Ministers and this Parliament and all the heads of the 186 municipalities to see really what these people's incomes are, not wages, but receipts, so here you are, I am not telling you, but I am asking you to answer me in a transparent manner. Consider this a parliamentary question that will go through the Secretariat: What are the salaries in the National Bank in the Central Bank, from the driver to you? It won't be hard for you. We are going to publish this transparently, because not only are journalists attacking MPs, we are not making a law because of 42 MPs and 15 delegates in the House of Peoples, but for 23 thousand people working in BiH institutions. Of course, you're our institution, too, so I don't think that's gonna be difficult for you. And don't be afraid, we're not gonna cut anyone's salary, and if you say you have no idea how much it doesn't matter, but if the public gets to know each other, you'll find some parameters. And here I am, by the way, saying, if I'm in that thousandth list, I'm going to suggest that I take the salary of 50 marks in this House, and that everyone else in the institutions is receiving 20 marks. I'm 50, and the other 20, doesn't work for any of my heights, so I'm important right now, but here's the better: a member of the 50 Marks presidency, I'm 20, and the other 10 if they think this country is going to save this way and this halabukah media how it's all here. That's why I'm asking you to prepare these two information for me. So, the national structure and personal income in the Central Bank. And this report you just explained, this is all fine. I ask you to do even more when you suggest economic issues. Oh, Mr. Korazić, so do you and I. There is no political environment to move on to economic issues, here I suggest that the first, second, third, fourth, 116th point be economic issues, you know. Or to have one point in each parliament: Bosnian-Herzegovic patriotism in the export of goods, to prove that, if we don't export goods and sell, we will choke ourselves, regardless of your foreign currency, our foreign exchange reserves, this thing, it will all fail. But we can't get into a position to do it, see for ourselves what the situation is and, of course, it's not at your address, but once again I'm giving you support for this report that's really good. The report itself does not say anything, unless this continues and we strengthen BiH's economic position, and then, by doing so, it is likely that political tensions will fall. Well, thank you very much. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18118	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. Discussing the Council of Europe information document – Bosnia and Herzegovina: Implementation of commitments and implementation of the post-accession co-operation programme You've got material for this point. The material was considered by the competent Commission for Foreign Affairs and submitted its opinion that this document should be considered at the House of Representatives. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone need to be an introductor? Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18120	I'm not answering as an introduction, I'm answering as a debater.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18121	Okay, there's no need in front of the board, no. Let's go in turn: Ambassador Bećirović, and Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18122	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, respected media representatives, I think this is a very important document that we think the SDP Club should have been on the agenda before, and I must say that I also insisted on the Foreign Affairs Commission that this, in any case, come on the agenda and the House of Representatives. I think it is particularly important that we try to focus on what is in this document of the Council of Europe, in particular on the obligations and implementation of the post-accession cooperation programme. As we know, in this document, the Council of Europe estimates that BiH has made little progress in meeting its commitments on the road to the EU. Moreover, in this document and the people of the Council of Europe once again underline the need to renew the debate on constitutional reforms without delay, so they repeat what was needed to be done and not done. That the implementation of the Law on the Public TV System at the state level should be completed, that it should stand by discriminatory procedures in the education system throughout BiH, improve the situation as listed here and resolve the situation, quote: two schools under the same roof, etc., etc. 48 Especially in this document concerns the fact that in BiH 13 years after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, the European Convention on Human Rights is still being violated. The BiH Constitution continues to violate Protocol XII of the European Convention on Human Rights and, among other things, is indicated in this document. Also, the document points to inadequate protection of national minorities in BiH, and here are concrete examples that speak of it. I would especially like to refer to this part of the return and the education system. Namely, this document contains one warning assessment by the Council of Europe, and it, among other things, will paraphrasise: that the return of recent years, they say, has been dramatically reduced, or the speed of return. I don't think that's good at all, and we should seriously think about it, and what's the reason why we came back? Also, this section on the fight against corruption and organised crime is an assessment by the Council of Europe that there is little progress in BiH on this issue. BiH, therefore, has not shown its readiness to make long-term efforts to fight corruption, according to the document. I recall that it has not yet been delivered to Parliament to the Anti-Corruption Strategy adopted by Parliament, and we have pleaded a few months ago on this initiative and made a commitment to the Council of Ministers, so most of the votes in this House, to deliver to us the Anti-Corruption Strategy. We still have no strategy on the benches or announcements that this strategy will at least reach the MPs for now, which is not good anyway, especially in light of these assessments and the Council of Europe. Not to mention some other legal projects as well as that proposal to confiscate criminal property acquired in BiH, which for the fourth time has not received a transitional majority in this parliament. However, I said earlier, especially I want to look back on this part of the education system in BiH. I think he's long-term important to our country's future. And they are really worried about the evaluations of the Council of Europe, not only, therefore, of domestic actors in BiH that we still have 13 years in BiH, I repeat, after Dejton present examples of segregation and ethnically based discrimination in education. And in this document, the Council of Europe is very clear that it does not contribute to BiH on its European path. Moreover, earlier, it seems to me that two sessions have raised a public parliamentary question to the relevant ministries and to the entire Council of Ministers: What have they specifically done to stop segregation in the education system?, apostrophe of the latest developments in the Municipality of Capljina, however, until this moment, I have not received any answer. I didn't want to answer any more parliamentary questions, because it's obvious that it should, and we'll probably be able to recalibrate from the next session of the House of Representatives that those ministers who don't answer MPs' questions to raise the issue of their shift, because apparently there are no other methods, and that's the conclusion of this House of Representatives. So BiH is the only country in which we have two schools under one roof, and that's the rating in this document. I ask the question: How long will we, especially here now, expect to sign this Stabilisation and Association Agreement, tolerate these forms of segregation and discrimination in the Bosnian Herzegovina society, and especially in the education system as a very vulnerable part of the point of view what is happening today in BiH? But to keep from wasting my time, I have two conclusions that I will deliver in writing, as well as a suggestion regarding this document. The first conclusion is 49 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to draw up a full programme of measures within 30 days at the latest, with the aim of implementing unrealised commitments and recommendations contained in the Council of Europe's information document on the implementation and implementation of a post-accession co-operation programme. And another conclusion: 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives will consider and adopt the Council of Ministers' programme no later than 60 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18123	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18124	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. So we have today's Progress Report for April – December of last year. Also, we have material, I think all MPs have received a review of the Office for Democracy or the Group of Democracy on the report, which the ambassadors, 14 ambassadors of the Member States, the Council of Europe discussed and observed certain things on the document. This document really shows through seven areas and 89 points or certain thesis and recommendations as to what the situation is completely in BiH regarding our obligations to join international institutions, here specifically the Council of Europe. I will only stay here for a few of them, among other things, what my previous colleague was saying, at the point of the 5th introduction, which says: BiH has not progressed in fulfilling any of the remaining formal obligations to the Council of Europe. This finding should indeed be a devastating assessment and alarming for every country. If we even look at the deadlines set by the Council of Europe to meet concrete obligations, our country is six to seven years late. We all have a chance to see what these are obligations and what are the documents... that we were supposed to coordinate and bring. The next thing I want to mention here is through the Monitoring Report Group on Democracy, which says that, among other things, a group of states: France, namely Sweden, Norway and the UK have expressed their readiness to help BiH in the area of interest and to have concrete projects. I have not seen whether BiH has shown any concrete interest, so the state's desire to help BiH with concrete...activity has been demonstrated, I have not seen it have. And in the end, I did not see – given that this document, or possibly both of these documents, was forwarded, in addition to the Parliamentary Assembly,... and the Council of Ministers, the BiH Presidency, the justice ministries, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Ministry of Human Rights, the entity governments, the presidents of parliaments, etc. - I couldn't see anywhere a reaction to a really very bad situation from these areas in this period, meaning April-December BiH, which it took over. In this sense, both these findings and the wishes of the states that want to help us with concrete projects, in this context, I really think it is necessary that the government in BiH take action to meet and look at the possibility of solving these problems and I think this fits into this 50 solution that Mr Bećirović has offered as a conclusion, means that institutions in BiH are in charge of working on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18125	Thank you. We have reported: the honourable Member Marković, Izetbegović, Raguž, Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The material we have at this point in the agenda is material that has been discussed by the Foreign Affairs Commission and I think this is a little bit now and, let me say, outdated material, given that we are already here today, and a permanent BiH delegation at the Council of Europe was received before the April session Draft Monitoring Team's monitoring report... which tends to actually become half this year's official monitoring team report on meeting BiH's obligations in the post-accession period in that institution. But, of course, since this is on the agenda, I'm going to say a few of my general observations about this material. First of all, it is evident that the material was taken seriously and... it contains, to say, some fact-finding review of the period, as stated in April-December 2007 and that in this respect it is some version of, in fact, a certain version of the monitoring report in front of this third monitoring report...which I have already said is already under review in this period, and will be an official document of the Council of Europe, i.e. the Secretariat half of this year. In this material and document, it is clear that this democratisation report group at the Council of Europe Secretariat... has found that BiH has not implemented or made a very small move in carrying out its commitments that it has taken responsibility in its membership, or accession to the Council of Europe. And when we think and consider, we analyze actually why it wasn't done, then you can't take the impression that we as a society and as a... a community simply in some things we don't really refer to certain things... the way we're expected to. The Council of Europe Secretariat, or Monitoring team, views BiH as a child who needs to grow up and become equal with adults in the early stages. But what happens to us is that this community of states is somehow hard to go on this path of growing up and, let me say, we are lagging behind in some of our obligations that are expected of us to meet and thus create an ambience of a democratic society that is expected to be asked of BiH. In that sense, I want to... say that in some previous period when the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats argued – there was then a story about whether the OHR should continue... its mission in BiH or not – when we said that the time had come for BiH to be responsible, as a society, to assume its obligations and duties, then some claimed that there was no good finding and that we needed representatives of the international community in BiH... that we could not spend some flows without them. And here, it is now seen in this report that they are exactly expecting us to do it and that all the obligations that are being made before us to do it, means, as a society, as elected representatives of the people in BiH and all those who are tasked with doing it and doing it. And here's the report that shows that it doesn't happen, and that can be the subject of various discussions and 51 analyses between us. Why is this not happening, and why are some creatures lagging behind, or some processes do not take place? What I'd like to point out this opportunity, not to say this is an incorrect quote, because you can't replicate this report because it's information and we can only take it into account, but I want to say for the sake of the public that two inaccuracies on page 5 are listed here in the Department of the Democratic Institution, and then under 2. The election of the President of the Republic where it is said to be elected, in the early elections for the President of the Republic in December 2007, it is said: This was the first time that the president was elected directly, not through Parliament, which I think is a complete inaccuracy, because it is clear that since the first elections after the war, since '96, the president of the RS has been elected, therefore, directly in the elections. And that's an incorrect finding. As in paragraph 25, in this department, where it is said that the President of the Republic of Slovenia plays a mostly symbolic role. It may be a symbolic role for the rapporteurs who wrote this report, but the role and position and importance of the RS president are very large and important in the RS, and I hope throughout BiH, given that it is one of the two entities in this country and that the institutions prescribed by the Constitution and which are set out in the Dayton Peace Agreement must be respected and respected and treated as... as it is intended to be treated. So these are... two inaccuracies that I wanted to highlight. But I think that... at this point it would really be... and time and need for this parliament... to focus on one of the sessions on draft monitoring reports which also contains very important... aspects of BiH's obligations that have been or have not been carried out and that possibly its comments and opinions on the draft delivery. The BiH delegation at the Council of Europe held the opportunity in April when, at the April session, she met with the Monitoring Team and presented some of her comments. But... I think that this material that we have today, and this draft monitoring report also contains some important things that we would have to think about and analyze and finally show that we can mature and assume the responsibility and commitment that we have as a society and as BiH. Thank you, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18127	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18128	So there are two monitoring teams. Why is that, I don't know. One is the Monitoring Secretariat of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, and the other is the Monitoring of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe itself. And this second one we were considering, uh, that's what fellow Milica was saying and we gave it to him and we had a meeting now during the last session in Strasbourg and made remarks and we can still add those remarks to the second report, not this one. This is the Secretary of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers' report. They give one diagnosis twice a year on the state, on BiH's progress and give their suggestions on how to fix the situation. So, I think it's very important... to face this report and it's necessary to follow what they're asking of us. That's why I'm going to read the most important elements of this monitoring that we have in front of us today. 52 Bosnia is asked to renew its constitutional reform debate without delay, to complete police reform, to complete the implementation of the Law on the Public TV System, to complete the transition of the Ombudsman Office, to stand by discriminatory procedures in the educational system throughout the country, especially in the two schools system under one roof, to complete the initial reform of higher education. I know we're aware of everything that's written here, mostly whether, but I think it's necessary to underline it. There's no way out until we do these things. Then, he asks BiH to finally complete its obligations. So, first of all, we have not yet sent the Council of Europe three suitable candidates who will represent the country in the Commission for the Prevention... of torture, it is the CPT. We sent some candidates they refused, who were no match for that. So we shouldn't do that kind of thing. I know this time... the procedure has been repeated and this time we really need to send a serious candidate. Further than BiH is asked to ratify the European Social Charter revised. Authorities are preparing a revised instrument of ratification, expecting it to be done in the first half of this year. After that, BiH is required to ratify the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages. In my capacity as chairman of our delegation in Strasbourg, I have directed the College of this House and the College of the People's House to demand that we finally ratify the documents we signed. This is the VI Protocol of the General Agreement on Privileges and Immunities, the European Convention on Cross-border Cooperation, the Revised European Social Charter, the European Charter on Regional Minority Languages and the European Convention on Citizenship. So these things are signed. I ask you to put them on ratification as soon as possible. Furthermore, monitoring warns BiH needs a professional and united ombudsman office at the state level. Then, it is very important to continue with the annex, with the implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement, that 135,000 displaced persons still express their desire to return to the place of pre-war residence, that the speed of return has dropped dramatically in recent years. And finally, point 65. The Council of Europe will continue to monitor this process, as the return of internally displaced persons remains a major political issue, and lasting progress in the implementation of Annex VII is directly linked to the country's reconciliation process. So, I would still point out about education if they insisted on introducing a new education programme core for all of BiH, completed by a series of culturally specific subjects. They also welcome the adoption of the Law on Higher Education, but ask us to ensure that the law is implemented quickly and that the necessary packages of rules are adopted as quickly as possible. Rules relating to diplomas, quality of education, recognition of qualifications, etc. This would be briefly what I think is particularly important to highlight and especially important to implement in relation to this report by the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18129	Correction of the incorrect quote: Honored Chairman Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18130	It's not an incorrect correction, but in that context, three minutes. Namely, you have sent a 13th request to the Kolegijum and to put those documents signed and not ratified here in Parliament. We have prepared an answer in which we say that none, so the agreement is not in the BiH Parliament's services and therefore it is not up to us that this document has not come to ratification. You know 53 well that the ratification process takes a long time and that they have stopped in other places, as in this report, if you read it in detail and quote some other sides, it also says why it did not happen. It is said, given the document on the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages signed in September 2005, that the sekretarijat is still ready to help BiH authorities ratify the Charter. The fact that the census hasn't been made since '91. This year leads to a lack of reliable data on the number of people who speak minority languages and contributes to delaying ratification of the Charter. And the Charter of the European Social Charter, revised, where the Council of Ministers is on two occasions... an instrument of ratification, and he was not good enough to be accepted by the Council of Europe, so that, as far as Parliament is concerned, all the Charter and all the documents that have come to us, we have put the other parts in parliamentary procedure, for these reasons... somewhere in the Council of Ministers or other institutions. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović: a response to the comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18131	So I hope to receive your written reply soon, so I will continue to look in the capacity of this chairman of our delegation to the Council of Ministers, etc. Until we get to those materials.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18132	Of course, and we can conclude in today's debate that we ask the relevant factors to check, and you as a delegation can also ask for it. Therefore, you can deliver it as a conclusion. Next, honourable Ambassador Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18133	Thank you. Since a lot has already been said by colleagues who have participated in the debate so far, I would focus this debate on only two important things. One: it is evident, therefore, from this summary on page 1, which says that in the last nine months BiH has again made little progress in meeting the commitments it has committed to joining the Council of Europe, that we have a problem with how we follow these things, how we serve them, and who is actually responsible for implementing the implementation of the post-accession commitments. After the initial enthusiasm and the period when, after being admitted to the Council of Europe, BiH has truly fulfilled a large part of its obligations and has become a credible member of the Council of Europe, I agree with this assessment in summary and I think it is right that these assessments are very small progress and that we as the BiH Parliament should find our answers and our responsibilities. And they are not small, from the adoption of laws to ratification and the enforcement of certain conventions, and I do not think that at this moment Parliament, regardless of the Council of Ministers, and the other institutions, have a clear diagram of what we are committed to meeting the post-accession obligations of the Council of Europe. And it is minimum today to commit ourselves, before I agree with this proposal to commit myself to the Council of Ministers,...I think it is a good proposal to deliver a dynamic and review of 54 activities within 30 days... which both the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly would lead in terms of post-opportune obligations. Why am I saying that? The first is, so until these obligations are met, we will be in one conditional phase and the second is, in point 8 on the other page, it is clearly said that BiH should benefit more from its membership in the Council of Europe. So, we do not use benefits as a member of the Council of Europe or in the programmes and projects that the Council of Europe has, and they are the most qualitative and best, from the area of human rights to democracy, the media and everything else to the financing of certain projects which are also available through an active and responsible role in the Council of Europe. And I think that this situation today Parliament must recognize and focus on its obligations in that direction. And I'd say next. So here are some findings that we really need to consider most seriously. He says, following an agreement on police reform, progress has taken place in the country's political atmosphere that strengthens plans to continue constitutional reforms but BiH should be responsible for the amendments and the Constitution, while, of course, they could use the Venice Commission and all other instruments of the Council of Europe. And of course, here I call for experiences from the rejected constitutional package of 2006 where constitutional debates are now said to be transparent, with wide-based public consultations and consultations with civil society, which will reduce the risk as the last time political leaders withdraw their support for the amendments in the final. I don't see any of the institutions in BiH now developing a plan to start constitutional reforms, which is run by dynamics and what methodology, with all these recommendations the Council of Europe makes. And they're putting it here as the highest possible political priority for this country. I think in all the conclusions that we're going to adopt today, this question should be point one. And secondly, the predecessors, some of the unrealised obligations, have also stated. I think there is no reason for us to have all the obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights, according to the European Commission for the Prevention of Torture, according to the European Social Charter, according to the protection of national minorities, especially according to the restructuring of the ombudsman institutions - watch out, we have passed a law - more legal restrictions on us to have one ombudsman institution at BiH level. Unfortunately, because of human resources and indiscipline, we cannot say today that we have fulfilled this obligation. So, I think we should have this debate as soon as there's almost a new report that will be updated by the latest... and the monitoring team's evaluations. And in this context, some of the assessments concerning the roles of the High Representative: they are given, only if they can find, the role of the international community and, in point 28, it is said: The new High Representative, Miroslav Lajčak, who took office 2.7.2007, at the same time performs the duties of EU Special Representative who, immediately after taking office, took a significant role in mediating police reform and the Constitution. I don't see that highly pronounced middle-playing role of the High Representative when it comes to the Constitution, in the police. And I expect, therefore, that, as the institutions focus this issue as a priority, and the Office of the High Representative, or international community, in terms of its responsibility, also presents its role in the reform of the Constitution. That's it, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the council. I believe that today we must have a few concrete conclusions regarding the dynamics of our work, relations with other institutions and meeting these obligations. 55 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18134	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18135	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, let me just look back at regional co-operation on war crimes. In point 86, it is said: A second question is being raised for the extradition of war crimes suspects between the countries of the region. Some of them are out of the country, have dual citizenship, especially Serbian and Croatian alongside the Bosnian-Herzegovina. ... The existing laws in these countries do not foresee the possibility of handing over their citizens in the event of an indictment. Serbia, Montenegro and Croatia signed agreements regulating the defendants to be tried in the country where they were arrested. Unfortunately, BiH authorities have not yet entered such bilateral agreements because of the sensitivity of the war crimes case, so there is a fus note below. I propose, in that sense, one conclusion: that within 60 days, the Council of Ministers will look at the possibilities and make a proposal to overcome the issue that the war crimes indictee is tried in the country in which he was arrested, not in the country where the crime was committed, and propose to extend the course of the Roman path rather than war crimes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18136	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18137	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Mortiring Team Report has cited a number of BiH obligations here, and I have always wondered, although I am fully aware and I understand that there is a Council of Europe Office in Sarajevo, who on behalf of this office draws up all these reports and who delivers all this information and what is this way, what is all this doing? Several of these segments of discrimination are listed here. Two schools under one roof, and the biggest discrimination is being made in this country by the Council of Europe and the Council of the EU. Here, today the EU Council of Europe, invited by all regional ministers, is probably expecting the signing of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Serbia, only our minister Alkalaj is not invited to be. He's gone, Lajčak, he's gone. And they're talking about some country that they're trying to help us, that we need democracy here, that we should respect European principles, this, that, that, and not let our country represent us as the minister legally elected by this Parliament. Well, here goes Lajčak, but Mr. Alkalaj should've been with him at least, and they didn't invite him. It would be the same as when this parliament says the most responsible for the situation in BiH, MP Jovičić, and no one invited me to come here! Now, that's the situation with this Council of Europe. 56 And really, how long will they humiliate us? Who will once explain to them that we did not come down from the branch yesterday, that we do not live in catacombs. Of course we are aware of our problems and difficulties but will they once respect us and will they once realize that we are a normal people who were long ago in Europe. And not only do we have some stuff like this and they say, "Here, that's not good, like we don't know what's wrong." Will they tell us how much it will help us to do that? Here's the best example I've set, and I won't repeat that I'm taking too much time from the debate. They don't respect this country, and they're asking us to respect everything they think should be done. Is that possible? That's why I'm expressing a sharp protest. If there's a representative of the international community here, they can pass it on, because that's where they report our domestics to them. There's no stranger here, nor understands our situation. When we don't understand it, how will strangers! But these locals who work for them for good money and I'm sorry that they're not subject... so let's see what their wages are, but well, it's all on pay today. So they write these reports and tell us about the misery of the party so that we can discuss the great story of how they specially advise us. And, I repeat, I am expressing great indignation that the Minister of this country is not invited there today, and all invited. It's a shame and don't ever, gentlemen of the international community, teach democracy when you violate all the human rights of this country and every single person.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18138	Thank you. I don't have any more applications, and we in the College have agreed to take a break until 15 o'clock when they will be able to... have lunch and other obligations made. At 3:00, we'll get back to work. [[PAUZA]] Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. Report on activities of BiH Institutions Audit Office in 2007
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18141	Thank you. As you said, the Commission unanimously accepted this report. I'll make some observations of the Commission and my own personal opinion. I think the Commission... for the first time this year seriously and in detail considered the report for all BiH institutions and held nine sessions. As you know, there were 19 positive ones, of which 14 positive ones, with a distraction... of objects; 33 opinions with a reserve and one negative of BHTV, the worst and worst report. I also want to say that the Revision Office is doing some things in a pattern way. I think we need more details, for example. where it is apparent that non-compliance with the rules, illegal actions, especially between transactions between state TV and FTV, where something is paid 100,000 marks, a million marks. That kind of thing should be recorded by the Audit Office. I'm only talking about the example here and the other institutions right. And I have to say here today that so far these reports have gone to the D.A.'s office and, when it was the D.A.'s work report, I asked the chief prosecutor what about the... audit report. He said they were overbooked. And for the first time this year, we suggested on the commission that all reports now go to the SIPA, the Department of Economic Crime, and that they...know that there is crime and then report to the prosecution. Parliament adopted that conclusion. Among other things, I consider it, is this media campaign, haranga and for that. Gentlemen, I'll always be in favor of no untouchable. The law must be the same for all, the rules must be the same for all, no one can be made for lies, no truths, and someone can do whatever they want and not have institutions to do. So, from that point of view, my suggestion and the recommendation is to review that such things, and there are especially about breaking the Public Procurement Act where there are millions of figures, are not respected regulations, that such things be emphasized. And I'm glad that finally our Audit Office is going to work and review the impact because here, you see, we have so many institutions, budget users who have enormously high wages. You can't see it anywhere, there's no halabuca, and all you can see here is this Parliament, these MPs. For these reasons, the Office of Audit should work, that we have a picture of all these institutions. Niko one's afraid, normally, everything needs to be public, transparent. And, next time, my recommendation is, wherever you come across high wages, and there are, and that's why they're against this bill of wages,... they'd have to say what they're going to be, they're not yet known, and they're just the biggest opponents and advocates of the adoption of the Law of Salaries. The system doesn't suit them, the anarchy suits them, and you know who's in the anarchy. Now, there's got to be an audit office a little more detailed, more concrete in its reports. And especially those who have high wages. Believe me, there are a lot of them, the effect is zero, efficiency, efficiency, productivity not to speak. So they have high wages, and they don't actually do anything. I'm not saying MPs work, but you need to know everything, what who does, and you need to answer for each other's actions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18142	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lijanović. Here you go. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18143	Dear President, colleagues, fellow representatives, distinguished guests, it is evident that the Audit Office has made a major contribution to improving procedures, quality of the work of institutions, respect for the laws and rules. What I would suggest, and my colleague Bahtić mentioned, is that the Office will be able to review the impact as soon as possible because it is far more important to review the impact than this job is now being done. And I would suggest one conclusion that, perhaps in this year, the Office of Audits conducts an impact review. The conclusion would read: The Office for the Audit of BiH institutions is committed to include in the 2008 plan and impact review, and to carry out an impact review of the 2008 CEFTA Agreement for the pilot project. For example, it would be of great value to us to make the effect of this agreement in one year and to present in some way the effects of this agreement to us. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18144	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18145	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers and Guests, I believe that the BiH institutions' audit office in the past has made a significant contribution to controlling the spending of taxpayers' budgets in BiH. Also, I think that it has grown into a respectable institution that is already recognizable to citizens and the public, and I also think that the media have made a significant contribution, in a way warning of the failures that have been conducted in connection with the audit reports. I would like to say that our competent commission, these activities she's carrying out, has been actively working on these issues last year and these conclusions we've been making we've proposed to the House of Representatives. And, regarding this item of the agenda, I would like to propose to the College of the House of Representatives that, in line with the conclusions of December of last year, we include in one of the next sessions during May of the month in the agenda the report on the implementation of the 2006 Representative's House's conclusions on the audit reports in order not to be welcomed by the 2007 reports without... establishing how much these conclusions have been realized. I consider it a significant message that the relevant institutions... in BiH, in connection with these reports, carry out certain actions in terms of research, i.e. determining responsibility, as I find very important that the elected responsible persons in the institutions, which are the subject of audit reports, must bear the responsibility and the institutions they have appointed to both citizens, i.e. the public and certain institutions where these failures have been made. It would be very important to put order into this. I think the adoption of the Internal Audit Act is a significant contribution to introducing more order in the area of business for the institutions of budgetary users than it has been so far. Thank you. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18146	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. I'm closing this agenda item. You don't need anything? In front of the Audit Office, Mr. Kulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18147	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, the esteemed guests, I would only comment on this request by Mr Lijanović and refer to his proposal to conclude that the Audit Office is committed to doing an impact review, a pilot reviewing the impact of the Free Trade Agreement. First thing. The law states that Parliament can therefore make a request, and it is up to the chief auditor to decide whether to accept or not the law. So it can't be committed. That's the first one. And the other. We are already doing a pilot review... of the impact, so we expect that in early June this draft, the first draft of that report here, to one group, members of the Commission, and some others, will be presented, so we started with an impact review. It's just an explanation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18148	Thank you. Moving to the 15th point of the agenda: Ad. 15. Report on the work of the BiH Export-Credit Agency Management Board I would like to remind you that the Law establishing an Export Credit Agency in Article 14(3) is an obligation to provide the Council of Ministers and Parliamentary Assembly of BiH with a report on the work of the Management Board of the Agency at least once a year. According to the law, the report from this point was delivered to us on 2 April 2008. As responsible for this report, the Kolegijum has appointed a Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs. We received the opinion of the committee responsible on 24 April and, among other things, the Commission found in the opinion that in 2007 the Management Board carried out all activities in the direction of smooth business within the framework of the activity and the Commission proposes to adopt the report on the work of the Export Credit Agency Management Board. I'm opening a debate. I ask, is there any need in front of the board? If not, there is. Who? I thank you, I have been warned from the service that the esteemed Draganić Milomir and Kozarić Lamija are here. Is there a need? MPs? I don't see anyone reported for discussion. 60 Dear Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go. Please log in faster, you know what dots go to the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18150	I'll be very brief. Of course, I support the Commission's report on foreign trade and customs, and I would like to propose one conclusion, which would actually strengthen the Extra-Credit Agency, on which we are discussing the Management Board's report today. The conclusion would read as follows: It is up to the Council of Ministers to provide adequate support and to capitalise on the Export-Credit Agency so that guarantees and insurance for certain export operations of Bosnia and Herzegovina's companies can be provided on behalf and on behalf of the State. I think if we strengthen it, it would be much easier and more operational to provide guarantees and insurance for the Bosnian Herzegovina export business.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18151	Thank you. Moving to the 16th point of the agenda: Ad. 16. Work report and Financial Report of the BiH Postal Transport Agency for 2007 We got the report on February 29th. The Commission for Transport and Communications shall be responsible. The opinion was delivered by the competent commission on 24 March. In addition, the Commission's opinion states that the work report and the Financial Report of the Postage Transport Agency have been unanimously accepted and proposes to the House for adoption of the following conclusion to be asked by the BiH Postal Transport Agency to organise their work in accordance with the Law on Postes of BiH as soon as possible, with the aim of implementing its powers under the prescribed law. I'm opening a debate. I'm asking someone from the Post Office, who's here, is there a need to?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18153	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18154	There's no need. Maybe the MPs will get back to you. 61 Dear Ambassador Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18155	I thank you, Chairman. I want to, so in my debate, to support the Agency's work and also to the conclusions that we have reached and discussed on the Commission, and primarily, here, I wanted to take a few moments to point out the inadmissible slowness in implementation. Here, and today we have heard in almost most of the laws that we have passed, just to mention, it means from 31.12.2007, that is, more than a year, the rules to make it come to life. ... Those three people who work at that agency, it seems to me, that at this point in time they were not active enough, not to say, a little, a little more incorrect words... So, at this time, I want you to go public here in front of Parliament, or my name, to ask you to work more actively on reviving the Agency, to bring in the necessary rules, to have these rules come into force, and to have that agency fully live because, what we have asked Parliament to do, we have created all the assumptions, just you, it is now up to you to work more actively on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18156	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18157	And I just want to say, I'm a member of this Commission on Transport and Communications, to support this report on the work of the Postal Transport Agency. I think these three candidates have a huge job ahead of them and this agency is very, very, very important. counterpart Nanić said, I think that around these regulations, the statutes, they have worked so far, the maltenes had no space, and they worked with the support of the ministry, BH mail, Post office, Croatian Post Office. I believe they have the support of the Commission, they have the support of three broadcasters, it's up to you, so gentlemen, allow it, you have the support, don't come here next year to find just three more workers. So, you hire, you have a budget planned and you bring... you have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18158	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I only have one question. Namely, on page 5. Reports on the work of the BiH Postage Agency have a table on the review of the regulatory fees charged by operators. We can see from the table, and from this previous plan, that the plan for 2007 was 270 62,000 and that a total of 122.002.30 KM was charged by operators: BH post office 41.303,10, Croatian post office Mostar 15.480,60 and Post office of Serbian Banja Ljuka 65.218,60.. I am interested: What was the plan, or obligation by operators, individually by operators, given that we have... payment here to see, in the end, what is the contribution to the development of this institution and, in the end, what does it look like that operators who did not meet their obligations to do so in the coming period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18160	Thank you. No more reports. I'm asking... Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18161	Mr. Chairman, here are just a few sentences for me to join counterpart Bahtić who supported the work of these three people in this agency. We expect here from the Commission, and I personally as a minister at a time when the three were elected, that this year they will do a lot of work to regulate postal traffic in BiH. I think they're professionally really competent to do it, but they won't be able to do it alone unless they hire a certain number of people, which they provide acts on their establishment this year. So here's once again support on behalf of the Commission, I hope, for communication and transport of this home.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18162	Thank you. I'm asking the representatives of the postal traffic agency: Is there a need? Here you go. Please come out here for a pay phone, introduce yourself and try to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18163	Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I have a need, clearly, to answer a parliamentary question regarding the structure of income and the rate of execution of that structure. Namely, the decision published in Official Messenger 92 defined three public postal operators in 2007 to make an exceptional payment of 90,000 KM and that is the obligation of public postal operators. You see in the income structure that different amounts are given in that table. It is simply because we received personal income from public postal operators and these gross payments have been stopped, therefore from that amount, so that practically public postal operators have settled their obligations and that is precisely regulated by Article 5 of that decision. So what's been paid, it's been suspended, and the entire amount has been settled entirely at 90,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18164	Thank you. 63 Parliament was addressed by the chairman of the agency, Mr Delivoje Đerić. I thank you. Do I need someone to comment on? If not, I'm closing the agenda. Moving to point 17, Ad. 17. Report on the protection of personal data in BiH and on the work of the 2007 Data Protection Commission I remind you that at the 24th session, we postponed the statement on this report due to the absence of the representatives of the rapporteurs, and returned the report to the committee responsible for the renewal of the proceedings, because the representative of the rapporteur did not attend the Commission's meeting. We also... adopted the conclusion on the proposal from the debate: 1. It undertakes the Data Protection Commission to come up with an activity plan aimed at meeting citizens on this issue. 2. The Council of Ministers undertakes to financially and organisationally ensure the realization of this. I'd like to inform you that the conclusion has been forwarded for realisation. On 2 April, the Constitutional Commission submitted its opinion to the report and also proposes to Dom to adopt a report on the protection of personal data in BiH and on the work of the Commission for Data Protection for 2007. I'm opening a debate. I ask the representatives of the Data Protection Commission: Is there a need to? There's no need. I'm opening a debate. If there are no reports, I'll conclude the hearing. I thank the representatives of the commission. Moving to the 18th point of the agenda: Ad. 18. Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's initiative on the preparation of the Law banning all non-fascist organisations and the use of their symbols, including the ban on Ustasha and Chetnik organisations, as well as those which rely on the Handar Division tradition
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18167	Thank you. I will first say that many international documents, from the United Nations to the Council of Europe, speak of the need to prevent the actions of those forces that spread hate speech and speak of the need to stop non-fascist organisations wherever they are in the world. So first, I will say that this is indirectly spoken by the United Nations Charter adopted in 1945, which speaks of respect for human rights. This is the basic document of the UN Declaration, therefore, of the General Declaration of Human Rights in Articles 1 and 2 which guarantees freedom, equality in dignity and rights regardless of religion, nation, race, skin color, etc. The international civil and political rights bill in its Article 20 requires signatories to ban any war propaganda by law. In the conclusions of the World Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna on 25 June '93. This year, among other things, concerns are also voiced over the growing occurrences of racism and fascism, and is strongly appealed to all governments to urgently develop measures that prevent such phenomena. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, in particular Protocol XII of the European Convention, further confirms the general need to prohibit discrimination, in particular by public authorities. In the 1997 Council of Europe's recommendation on hate speech, hate speech is defined as any form that extends and promotes, promotes or justifys racial hatred, xenophobia, anti-Semitism and other forms of hatred, based on intolerance, including intolerance expressed by aggressive nationalism, ethnicity, discrimination or hostility towards minorities, immigrants or people of immigrant origin. Due to the frequent use of the Internet, as means of spreading racial, national and religious and other hatreds, the Council of Europe adopted the Additional Protocol on 28 January 2003 – the Convention on Computer Crime, on the Crime of the Acts of Rastist and Xenophobic Nature. I must say that the very educational experiences and practices of the countries of the Council of Europe, especially Western European countries, are in the fight against fascism and hate speech. Thus, for example, the Penal Code of Germany contains comprehensive provisions against hate speech. In Germany, the distribution of propaganda material by non-constitutional organisations is punishable, e.g. as neo-Nazi organizations, the use of their symbols, the calling for hate and violence, etc. In Germany, there is even a permanent phone line on which citizens can report attacks by neo-Nazi groups, as well as constant surveillance of websites with racist content. By contrast, from BiH where you have frequent phenomena, where certain organisations threaten citizens but unfortunately, we still do not have effective protection from such organisations in BiH. In the province of Brandenburg there is even a law on the prosecution of Nijemac that even in foreign countries sets up racist websites. There are a number of laws in the UK that regulate hate speech and other forms of racism. Thus, for example, the Law on Public Order in Great Britain prohibits verbal and any other presentation of material that promotes racial hatred. The law on football violations in Great Britain prohibits even racist cheerleading. In Italy, legal measures to combat racism and discrimination are not contained in criminal law but have been deployed within other separate laws. Thus, in the Constitution of the Republic of Italy, the Constitution has been regulated to prohibit the re-establishment of the fascist party. So, the Italijan not only passed the law, but they regulated it in the highest legal act of a state, in the Constitution. 65 France is also another one of the countries with rigorous legal measures to crack hate speech. Except that discrimination, hatred and violence based on origin are punishable in France, it is also prohibited to justify crimes against humanity, especially those committed in World War II by the axle forces, and to dress uniforms and wear emblems that remind people responsible for war crimes. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that while the war in BiH ended in 1995, we still have some phenomena among BiH's population to disperse religious and national hatred, that some peoples are hoarding against others, which is certainly a suitable ground for the birth and growth of fascist ideology and its implementation in practice. I think that as MPs in BiH's highest legislative body, we also have a kind of debt to the Bosnian Herzegovina public, especially to generations to come, to oppose all attempts at falsifying history and to contribute to the construction of such a society that will rest on planetarily recognised anti-fascist values. It is not only the recent past that obliges us to do so, but I trust all of us to keep peace in these places and not to let fascism ever raise its head again and threaten the future of this country and the people of BiH. I, of course, want to say that this is the first time since 1995, from Dejton to today, that the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives will declare on the Non-fascist Organisations' Forbidden Initiative. This law, or this initiative to pass such a law, is not aimed absolutely against any people in BiH, even though I think it is in the interest of all peoples in BiH. It is only directed against the blackest ideologies and the blackest movements that have appeared in these places and have inflicted an immeasurable evil on all the peoples of this country. More than 50,000 citizens signed this initiative in just a few days, today's MPs were provided 46 letters of support from all over BiH, and this is not the final number of all those associations and NGOs that supported this initiative and what is particularly looking forward to me is that the support of this initiative came literally from all the cities of BiH, from the capital of Sarajevo, via Tuzla, Ugljevik, Bijeljina, Dobo, Brcko, so that I do not take all the places and cities in BiH. I thank this occasion all the citizens who signed this initiative and all the NGOs who supported this initiative. Here, quite accidentally, we are today on April 29th, about this initiative, so symbolically 10 days before May 9th, the Day of Victory over Fascism in Europe. I think it would be a good message if today and in Parliament we found political will to support this initiative on the ban of neo-fascism in BiH and non-fascist organisations and to welcome on May 10th and May 9th of this year with a single initiative adopted. I'm not going to talk about what they think and what NGOs say. Many of them have made their views very clear and will likely show them in the coming days, but here, ending this opening presentation, I would like to say that this must be one of the most important issues standing before today's BiH, and it seems to me that the relationship to neo-fascism in BiH is one political divide ahead of today's BiH. This is ultimately a question and relations towards all victims of fascism in BiH, it is, after all, a question of our relationship with both victims and Jasenovac and Gradiška and Foca and Visegrad and Srebrenica, etc. I think that today we should rise above any other party and any other framework and, in the interest of all the peoples of BiH and all the victims of fascism in these areas that have been great in the last decade, especially in the last century, that on behalf of them, we should all vote this initiative together, which, let me remind you, is not the law, but we are giving the green light to go into 66 preparations of this law on the principles which, among other things, are explained also in the title of this initiative and in an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18168	Thank you. Okay, I know there's a replica. I want to – before we open a debate with those who have applied, so Jovičić, Jukić, Dokić, Mehmedović for replicas – I get to know Kolegijum House that, together with the secretary, the way we're going to vote on this, which is a little different, because this is not a legislative project, a process, but an initiative. On the initiative, the Kolegijum determines the committee responsible for giving its opinion, but if the initiative is not voted, then the initiative falls and no longer returns to the commission, so MPs know how to determine it according to this initiative. If there's any misunderstanding about that Kolegijum decision, let's discuss it now, so we don't discuss it when there's a vote. So, Reverend Mehmedović. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18169	So my replica refers to the introduction of the distinguished colleague Denis Bećirović. Namely, we have received several of these letters of support, and in his opening statement, Mr Bećirović said that many BiH cities received a letter of support for this initiative. Unfortunately, I, reading... all these letters of support, see that these are mostly letters from Tuzla, except for the Council of Intellectuals who are based in Sarajevo. So I just want to warn you that it's wrong to treat a bright idea like this and a very important question like this and that I'm not trying to say ideological but party-like to color it. I think it was... more appropriate for a group of MPs to go with an initiative like this or an idea than a media campaign was done in this way. Here's an example: I received an e-mail as an agent, so, a request from this NGO to join this campaign. I did it. However, last night, watching information shows, none of the MPs read e-mails, no one sends support, etc. That's all Comrade Bećirović did. I find it inappropriate and such an important issue to be brought into parliamentary procedure in this way, I don't think it's right. Of course, there is no question of support for this kind of light initiative at all, but I don't think you should even ideologically, and especially not party paint it this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18170	Thank you. The following came to the discussion, Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18171	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, is indisputable that all of us here are the biggest opponents of the work of neo-fascist organizations and, of course, every initiative that goes in this 67-way is welcome. However, who is it and what acts he has proved to be the neo-fascist organization that works here, not defending, of course, no one. Here is the logic: every day in the media will be read by the Chetnik army of Republika Srpska, the Chetnik police, the Chetnik Republika Srpska. Under this law, the RS, a Chetnik organisation, would have been abolished, created by the Chetniks. So, completely unclear who proved it, which court, which institution, which non-fascist organization, which we today must prohibit by law? Well, then, you have here in an extension finely written Ustasha organization, Chetnik organizations, as well as those that rely on the Handar Division tradition. Which one? What organizations that wore backpacks, that brought water, what ammunition brought to the hangar handžar-divizija, what organizations? Very unserious. This kind of initiative of awareness of such an unserious law would be very unserious of us. I repeat, so you don't get it wrong, there's an organization here that says we're all gonna be registered against this. Here's me, I'm for this initiative, but this is how I'm against this initiative. I need you to register me right now! But don't tell me I'm a neo-fascist, which I don't let go through like this, I mean, I speak for myself. Very unserious. I will always support any decision by the court, no matter what level, which will bring a judicial verdict and say: this organisation is unfascist, because of this and that action, it is so. This is in conflict with some other things we talked about forging history. What history? History will show whether falsified history was what we were learning, and so was I at school. I know an uncle who knew how to come to me and tell the truth that the government of Segert knew how to kill an entire Srbin village if two of them went into the brushes. Was that the real history that my teacher taught me, that I loved Tito more than my father and mother? I was taught by a teacher. As soon as I open the book, Tito in the picture, I can't carry a baby alone. I can't have my late father, of course he was alive then, taking pictures every day to carry his picture. And if I didn't make a joke out of this initiative, this is a serious matter, but I beg you: do you know of the RS regulation that Chetniks and Partisans are even by rights and duties? Did any institution say that these Chetniks have done evil, here's what I'm going to say, but as much as who, in what way? Let's explain it to some judicial institution and make a verdict and say, "It's an organization that did it and I raise my hand first to ban her work." I do not want to say today that I approve of the work of some organizations that are doing all this that Mr Bećirović listed, not to repeat, but not to bring unrest into this country. Well, there are some there, I've seen several gatherings, people with RS emblems show up, shows up on TV says Chetnic emblems. Here's a reward for anyone who brings me a '41 cocardo. A year. I don't know, maybe someone's still watching over there, but they're going to the grave. Not to watch her, but to see what she looks like, to see what she looks like as a souvenir. So, I'm asking you, to go back to the subject, this is a serious thing that we can't pass the law on, because I'm telling you, no matter what history I've been learning like this or whatever, I don't know who decided which organization is going to be unfascistic. It's not bad. Mr. Bećirović, I really do support you, but you have a really huge influence in Tuzla Canton. Is there any NGO that hasn't given you support? Well done! And only, in the end, if we were to adopt this law, would it be: Tuzla is the free city, the SDP city, they are one fight against neofascism, and these others, especially in the RS, are none, they are all for some movements. That's not true. Don't do this to us because it's not working. We live still in the 21st century, in 2008, we're normal people, we want to build a normal country, not through laws like this. So please, it's a serious idea, an initiative, everything's fine, and when you bring me the verdict and sue me, you first, in court, a Chetnik organization, that they're a non-fascist organization, not that you'll have support from me, but that I will collect 500 support from the RS NGOs for such an idea, not just from Tuzla Canton. 68 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18172	Thank you. So we go in a row: Jukić, Dokić, Križanović, Novaković. Here you go. Discussions. Who's got... the replica? Dear second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18173	Dear Mr. Jovičić... more, in a way, a request. So, we have an initiative that goes towards the request... that our Council of Ministers, the Resort Ministry, etc. Do a legal project. Let us not prejudge what he will be, regardless of what the initiator has already indicated in some titles, etc. We're the ones here to decide. And really, there's no need before we make a problem. This initiative, in my opinion, we can't refuse, but the content of the law, the definitions, how and how we're going to solve things, we're going to discuss here. Here, I beg you in that direction to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18174	Replica, reply to replica: Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18175	I fully support your initiative, Mr. Belkić, but I'm asking you, can we burden the Council of Ministers on something to pass law, bill of law? All I understand is the conventions, the institutions, this, that, but I just said whether there's any verdict of a court that's only relevant, only competent, the only instance that can tell which organization is unfascist. None of the ministers, nor the Council of Ministers, nor this Parliament. I'm sorry he can't, but that's not possible, it's not possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18176	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18177	But I'm asking, can we make a big commitment to the Council of Ministers, so that we can stop the whole process? If they're not able to make it, on what grounds, I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18178	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18179	Well, we try everything. I'd like us to be successful if we don't try, so it's gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18180	Thank you. Just to see who was looking for all the replicas. Dear Ambassador Križanović, Ahmetović, is that right. That's all the replicas, isn't it? Here, first Ahmetović, then Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18181	Well, there's a small replica about these judgments, and there's a verdict by the International Court of Justice in The Hague and take it, read it, Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18182	Wait a minute, please. Križanović, go ahead. Replica. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18183	Yes, it is. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought I'd discuss this, but I can see how it went, I'm going to give up that discussion, and I'm going to try and replicate my colleague Jovičić in this place. You see, we can make this the circus you want, you know, we can turn around and miss the subject completely, but I think BiH has a need, a bad experience, and it's necessary to pass one of these laws. It is necessary to adopt this for the reason that, in my opinion, we would create a common denominator, one common denominator for improving the overall climate and work of BiH institutions and a more comfortable life in BiH. You see, now look for certain remarks that have gone in the direction of clarification of this initiative, so to criticise them, and ignore the basic purpose and purpose of this, of course, so that the subject is missed. It can be fully placed here, after all, to bring an initiative to ban all non-fascist organizations and use their symbols. We do not need to explain what are potentially fascist and non-fascist organisations, etc. But we have these phenomena in BiH, it is undeniable, it is undeniable to advertise on the need for this adoption of such a law by many NGOs and associations, and I think that even so, our next bitter experience and the need to create, I say, a more healthy new climate of movement in BiH towards a European civilization to make this useful for all BiH citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18184	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18185	Well, here's an interesting technique: when I don't sign up, register me, but when I sign up, it's not. But here's the thing, I'll just say a few words. 70 Ma, when it comes only to the initiative, and since this initiative is very interesting and treats one very important issue and a question that often comes across quite different understanding, understanding, I think it would be much better if this initiative was nevertheless the fruit of a single broad group of representatives' agreement, etc. And then she'd certainly have a much greater chance of ending up with success and then doing one, so she'd go a little bit wider as an initiative and then doing the right and quality law to regulate what's being said here. So, to ban all the unfascist, all the neo-fascist organizations and the use of their signs and symbols. I don't think it would be a good idea to test on this subject here some kind of unity in the sense that perhaps before a quality debate on this statement is made, because you might get the impression that some aren't going to do something like this, etc. And my personal opinion is that this is how it went, therefore, from the initiative of Mr Bećirović, who has a ligitimate right both under the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, etc. Initiating such an initiative, it would be a little overly politicized, and it would only be prescribed to him or his political party, such as, in this country alone, they are engaged in protecting this people and these spaces from such phenomena, etc. Although I think the initiative is correct, I only have a certain reserve from the fact that it comes from one MP, or one political party, and I think that it should, therefore, return to the beginning and achieve one broader agreement and consensus and then go and I am convinced that then this initiative would be certainly with a much greater chance of final success, and I am for the success of one of these, but not in this way run, initiatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18186	Thank you. Replica? It's not. Dear MP Dokić, Novaković, Ajanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18187	Chairman, and I have to realize that the nerves of this technique have mixed up, alluding to a long-known joke, I'm not going to convince him now. Namely, when I press this button, you don't call me and when I don't press, you call.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18188	Not to mention the answer you got, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18189	But since I'm already in that position, let me say, I think it's time to say your opinion on this matter. This is a very important and very sensitive problem that seems to me to be politicized in the way it's politicized and that there's a surplus in this initiative. On the side this first part, each party seeks to gain voter favor through their initiatives or clubs or individuals, and that's logical. So, here, I don't blame you for this initiative, but I resent the full name. Indeed, what my colleague Križanović said, that this initiative has a point behind their symbols, I am openly saying that I would support this initiative. But with a name like this, I can't support this initiative. Because this is about prejudging, connecting various organizations, and it's known that fascism is an ideology and, on that basis, prejudge in advance, then, what this law will include and who it will put into that ideology, I'm not able to accept. So I repeat once again, only with the name of the adoption of Law 71 on the ban on non-fascist organisations and the use of their symbols would he have the support of such a full name, will he not get the support of PDP MPs in this assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18190	Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18191	And here I am, very brief, distinguished colleagues. I don't think this is about some sensitive problem. Namely, all of us here and all of our political parties are clearly committed against fascism, so it's a clear definition embedded in most of the party's basic...based acts. So my party has a clear view, too, so it's embedded in its documents, that it's against fascism. Of course, we are also against communism, and we have it clearly embedded, embedded in... our programming principles. So I don't think, in particular, I don't think it's a sensitive question... if Mr. Dokić would take my word for it, this law, that is, the name of this law, would rephrase. And it would be good if he really bears the name of the Law banning all neo-fascist organizations and using their symbols, period. And that would be in the spirit of what Mr Bećirović was talking about. And that would meet all the conditions of all the conventions, and all the demands and not just the demands that are being made before us, but here are our programming principles. Who'd find themselves here? Of course, it would probably be defined by criteria that would have to find their place in the law, whether these three or all of them or all of these, or all of them, three, five, ten, that could be determined afterwards. It is also necessary to distinguish antifascism from commitment to this law and these two in neither and in any variant, there is no need to be confused. What always makes me nervous about projects like this is these letters of support. I learned something from the SDP, which is that you keep collecting some signatures. Once for, another time against. Then you collect some letters, one for another time against. Well, then you hire SCOY, and then the skiers collect for you once for, once against. I ask the question: What if all of us, when they gather for, gather against, or when they gather against us for? Then we'd have to make a law as if those of us who collect and those who collect them didn't get in a fight. So we should define it by law. Otherwise we would have a really very interesting situation on the market of gathering support or non-support. And, please, I will read the last paragraph of one of these memos: The young people of this country tell you to carefully study the saying: "If you don't know where you're going, every time they'll take you there" – it's not exactly in the context of all this, but here's how it is – and they ask you to fulfill the trust of those who chose you through the adoption of laws that will protect their interests, even when your personal individual interests are threatened. Please, therefore, even then, and we're talking about anti-fascism, when the SDP appreciates that someone's personal interests here are at stake, here we call on you to be against fascism. I think this is a shame. And that this is a shameful invitation to us parliamentarians I'm convinced of, and we're all against fascism by 42. And at least in this country, we all have serious reasons to be against fascism. I hope that this conductor of this ensemble, these NGOs, will at least write them a letter in the future not to irritate the MPs, because it will be easier to come to a solution to what they want to conduct in this way. 72 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18192	Thank you. Ambassador Križanović: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18193	Well, I'm really sorry to have to replicate, uh... I wouldn't say it the way I did. It's really...it's weird that this keeps repeating itself, that certain SDP initiatives are being attacked like we're guilty of something. I never told my colleague Novaković what I thought of his party. And believe me, I don't mean very well, but, respecting him and parliamentary... pluralism politically, I'll never tell him that. But you see, this is where NGOs are accused of supporting an initiative, a legal, legitimate initiative, and, please, when you're talking about this initiative to polarise with this NGO, you can go ahead and tell us what you wrote to us like this, which is not what you're not pensioners, which are young, etc. This really doesn't make any sense anymore, and I would ask my colleague to refrain from the courtesy and code of parliament. Well, you know what we've never had before, but some have acted according to the code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18194	Let's move on with the replicas now, so, in this order, first of all, honourable MP Dokić, then Novaković, then Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18195	Mr. Chairman, I just wanted to explain that when I said this question was sensitive, I didn't mean the first part of the question, and here I am fully in agreement with Mr. Novaković. So this first part of the issue of banning non-fascist organisations and using their symbols is ours and obligations, in fact, according to all our and party acts, I hope all the parties, all those MPs sitting here in these benches. But that dimension of sensitivity gave this supplement. And, just because of that sensitivity, I don't want to, and I didn't want to before, and I don't want to explain now why it's sensitive. That's what one who's the applicant of the initiative should recognize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18196	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18197	Well, you see, my colleague Križanović, I really didn't say anything against the SDP and that he's going with initiatives, but I've had observations, and now I have observations about your relationship with 73 to your initiatives. You see, you're very skilled at trying to replace the thesis and credit me with disagreements with NGOs. And I actually said that you orchestrate these NGOs, so I did not express my disagreement with NGOs, but with you. And if that were the case, Mr. Bećirović, I would get these letters from NGOs, not from you. How come they didn't send me to the address, to this Parliament individually, each of them, but to send you to give me. So that states me, means and gives me the right, and I'm sure I'm right, gives me the right to have most of these prepared for these letters. If they had sent me, I wouldn't have told you now, because this isn't the first letter of NGOs I've received and I never said this. But whenever you bring me that letter, I will doubt that you asked the NGO to give it to me. And I think I'm right when I do, and I believe that you know that I'm right. Of course, you won't say that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18198	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18199	Well, since I've received these letters, even though they're not addressed to me, I'm going to accept a call that we're going to have to pollute with those who sent these letters. I am now wondering how it is possible that the Association of the Families of the Croatian Defendants of the Dead and Missing in the Homeland War, then the Union of the Family of Shehid and the Dead Fighters of the Tuzlan Canton, then the Third Union of War Disabilities of the Tuzlan Canton, has another, the Unique Organisation of the Fighters Tuzlan Canton, the Union of Veterans – I put this down to read from word to word – and then I realized that these four organizations wrote the exact same text in the comma. Look, the exact same text, it begins, it ends in a comma, there is no way the Croatian Defence Association and veterans have the same point of view on this issue. Four of the same lines, is someone joking with us? Is it possible that these four organizations with these names in the decimal point are thinking the same thing, in the decimal point? This never happened, as far as I know. The closest organizations changed at least a header. Here or there, it's all addressed to Denis Bećirović! And all the exact same thing, here's two hours I'm trying to find a mistake, like what you find ten differences in those cartoons, there's no. It's the support of such an important initiative, here's how this support was made. And then someone will say that we are against the NGO sector, here's what the NGO did if it did the NGO sector. I don't think these people did this and they didn't do this. I think they're being manipulated. I think they're manipulated, that they, like them, don't have their opinions, you know. These people are not against fascism, and they needed someone to write the text so they could just sign it. I don't believe that. I think they have the right attitude of fascism, according to the symbols of fascism, but they don't have that sensitivity to political manipulation, that this happens to them, that someone believes them, because they're told that they sign it and that this text can't happen in a thousand texts to be the same as other organizations. Here it happened... between 10 and 4. And the question is, how many are there? Now let's talk about signatures and everything. I think it's incorrect. I don't think it's serious that this is how the atmosphere is created and the media lynch is being prepared, as expected to be against fascism in this House today. And let us threaten that we, whom we already know in advance, and think that they will be, will be. Is there anyone normal in this House 74 that can be against fascism and fascist symbols? But it's been going on for days, and it's expected to be here, and all you have to do is say: Don't even let Partisan Mara bring out a message from Parliament in a braid. You know, I don't think it's correct. We've said it a few times that this with such important issues is not working, I think we can reach a broad consensus on this issue and I think we can. But if anyone wants to politicize this, we can't stop him. We have a positive view of this and we want to take this seriously, not in this way. If I'm here or some of the wrong papers have come to me, I've really tried to compare this most seriously, there are correct attitudes here, correct organizations, and these people think they're correct, but that someone manipulated them into this situation that we've come into.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18200	Dear Ambassador Bešlagić: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18201	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I really cannot understand that everything that comes from the SDP Club is immediately caught on the knife and we immediately organized something. So now we're the owners of television, police chiefs, all this stuff, here we are, the NGO sector, we're conducting, and we're the opposition. So come to your senses, God's people! You're the position and you're the one who can bring anything you want here. But the bottom line, however, is next. So, Mr. Novaković, you're asking in the Internet era that you didn't launch the initiative without the letters of support coming to you! That doesn't get in my head. If I started the initiative, then those letters are being sent to me. And I would agree and I would be happy if they had come to you and come to all of you MPs, that, unfortunately, I don't know why, but they only came to the one who started it. Neither did Selim Bešlagić, but means Denis Bećirović as the driver of the initiative. Am I supposed to be mad at that? I don't need to be angry, but I just need to end this story of this task and try everything to do, what can be done. On the other hand, what really irritates me, don't talk to Tuzla, about Tuzla here now because Tuzla is who she is and what I can do to you right now. _________(?) And Denis is from Tuzla. And Denis is from Tuzla. Well, they're not all organizations. I think, ma'am, you're wrong. If the Ugljevik organization is sad, then I agree, and here you have the carbon initiative. Well, then, second... stand up a little sick, Bahtić!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18203	Please don't throw it away. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18204	I didn't interrupt you even when you replicated... The second thing, we have the president of the SGV, president of the Bosniak Intellectuals Association, we have the president of the CNV, these are not companies registered. These are companies registered at BiH level. Therefore, I ask you, the question of the relationship of NGOs, do not ask in relation to us to dictate. Ask them these questions and ask them the answers. We're proud to have this many suggestions on the initiative. I'll be even more proud when I get those suggestions from all over BiH. But I'm asking you not to expect the initiative you're launching to come to me in support. If he asks me, I'll give you a foothold, if that initiative is what I consider correct. A ban on the activities of fascist organisations is essential to this BiH state. Not because it used to be there, but because it's being repeated in sports stadiums, in communications, and I think that's what this society needs. And if we appreciate it, let's support it. So there's no criticism in the sense that you, someone... that it's up to this point, so cut, well, like that. But here are the suggestions, the conclusions, so let's go with further material. And this is an initiative, and when the law comes, I think you're right, then we should define everything we need in that law to stand, so we can say that we have a state that has such a law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18205	Incorrect quote: Honorable Chairman Dr. Milorad Živkovć.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18206	Thank you. I want to say to my esteemed colleague Bešlagić that we simply don't really have any animosity to any initiative coming from the SDP. We just can't understand that the way you're doing it is, in fact, being rejected by that initiative of yours. The way you collect votes of support in this parliament, in the previous days, was to reject this initiative. The way you did it with NGOs was to reject that initiative. I'll be quick to remind you. NGOs, which are certainly over 300 in Tuzla, wrote: Education and the future of young people in BiH. Subject: Support of initiatives of neo-fascist organisations. So please, people, so how can you write this this way? I can only draw a conclusion, I can only draw a conclusion, which is that it is your intention to reject this initiative here, your intention to profit with such political points in this way and that other colleagues, as you do for other initiatives, label it as the worst...horor films. I call on you as a serious political party to launch an initiative here from this Parliament and ask your colleagues: are they in favour of making the support of this initiative, not the reverse way you keep doing it. Now, that's why I came out to say that I think the way you did it in the SDP is really wrong. Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Here you go. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18207	Does this mean that we should propose support for fascist organisations, so that you here in Parliament can adopt an initiative to ban fascist organisations? If that is, and it seems, after your presentation, that it has come to my mind that if we only suggest negatively, it will be, so we will have to look for some technologies, but we have to explain to people what this is about: that only an initiative that does not come from the SDP can pass in this House and it is not logical. From the SDP, if it's illogical, then it'll pass here. Well, it's a disaster.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18208	Replica reply: Honored Chairman Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18209	Here, I just want to say you don't have to twist the words I said. I said that the initiatives that are good and that we can do together, the way you did it, you SDP, you answer people and who wanted to support those initiatives to help you. I say to you next time ask your fellow MPs, with whom you need respect and respect to behave, to ask them to support these initiatives. Let's take it in a row. Dear Ambassador Novaković asked for a replica first. He didn't have two replicas, he had one discussion and one replica. Mr. Bećirović, please keep that schedule with you better. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18210	Well, I don't think I'm gonna say anything special, so... I can't say it. I don't think anything's gonna change. I wanted to make it perfectly clear once again that we would support the law, with the name I read. If the promoter is willing to do so, then change his name in the way I said, then we will support the initiative. And I guess that's clear our message, our anti-fascist commitment. Another thing, please, Comrade Bećirović, as it says in this letter here, I will read, the Alliance of the Family of Shehid, the dead fighters of Tuzla Canton, the last sentence, reads: For these reasons, we are giving full support to an initiative that is on the line that is well arranged and passed a law prohibiting the work of such associations, regardless of what he will be called in the final solution. So, the comments on the commission that the law is not called right, so that it is too wide, that it is like this, that it is like this, now it tells me that, of course, it was told to people, since it didn't go on the commission, go to the House and write down a few views. So, and that remark that was on the commission to be named by the law, here's what people say openly, no matter what it's called. Well, when no matter what it's called, here I suggest, as the vast majority of NGOs here have called that law, here, I suggest that it be called in the initiative and will have the support of all three SDS MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18211	Thank you. Dear MP Bećirović has a replica. Right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18212	First of all, I would like to say that the unbound outcome of the vote is, there is no force that can even fascism and antifascism with arguments and that can even the antifascists and fascists in these areas. And thank Bog, when we talk about anti-fascists and fascists, we're not talking about members of a nation, because when I talk about anti-fascists, I'm talking about anti-fascists Srbin, Bošnjak, Hrvat and others in this country, and I'm also talking about fascists who were from the order of all three peoples in BiH. So that's the way I talk about it. There have been various discussions here, given the two replicas, I've tried, if, to use a way to answer some things. Of these well-intentioned, from counterpart Jukić who said he had a reserve because it came from one MP, which I would like to say that if this is accepted today by the House of Representatives, there is no problem, it becomes an initiative of the BiH Parliament, up to similar assessments from counterpart Mehmedović Šemsudin. And he was saying who suggested it, etc. I don't think it matters at all who suggests it matters what's in this initiative, not what the NGOs wrote. We are discussing this initiative today. But what is the real problem here? Here, my colleague Jovičić was saying who proved it to be a non-fascist organization. When the court finds that out, I'll paraphrase my colleague, Jovičić, then he'll say that the Chetnik organization is fascist, etc. That there was a distortion of history, everything else. I would like to say very clearly, since this is being carried out in a series of discussions, that here for many MPs is not yet, I believe, the disputed that the Ustasha movement was a genocide movement that made genocide in World War II against the Serbian people. And it says, among other things, in this initiative. And it is an insult to every victim of Jasenovac and to every normal man, not just a Srbin in BiH, to anyone in this country wearing Ustasha features, he calls streets by Ustasha generals, military leaders, etc. It's an insult to every victim. I also claim that it is an insult to every Bošnjak, to every Hrvat, to celebrate the Chetnik movement. Why is it a problem to stand in this initiative, to say unfascist but not to say that fascists were Ustasha, Chetniks and those who were in the hangar division? Someone here is saying that the Chetnik movement is not a fascist movement. And gentlemen, if we have to, we can talk about it. Chetnic movement is a genocide movement, it's a genocide idea, a genocidal ideology, which proved to be genocide in practice. And it is no longer necessary to mention here how many tens of thousands of people were slaughtered, as the Chetnik commanders, Džurišić, Kalabić and many others in World War II said, who were the closest associates of Draže Mihajlović and... have recorded documents. I even watched the primary structure, where it says, "Kill but don't use ammunition, kill people!"
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18213	Wait a minute. Time, time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18214	So today, no matter how you try to take this initiative down, maybe you temporarily stop it, etc., there remains one clue, a clue of having, so if there was one man, one man in this Parliament, and not one man, who wants to say: it's impossible to equate fascism and 78 anti-fascism and don't. Here, even though his colleagues are gone, I want to ask him publicly, because he, I highly appreciate him, says the problem is in the title. I believe that he has no problem arguing that the Ustasha movement was a genocide movement, that it was also a hangar handžar-divizija, I would just like to hear from him whether he really believes or believes in this Parliamentary assembly as in the National Assembly of the RS there are people who want to say that the Chetniks were anti-fascists. Well, look, it's an insult to people in BiH, it's an insult to all the victims to claim here that the Chetnik movement is not a fascist movement. In his idea, in his theory, in his practice, it would be a genocide movement and it would be good, for the sake of solidarity, for the sake of all the victims and for all the peoples to agree on it. It's hard to make a future if someone wants to tell people in this country that the Chetnik movement is not a genocide and criminal movement. Well, obviously, it's very clear why someone bothers me in this law of banning non-fascist organizations, we say: Specially forbid the Ustasha movement, the Chetnik movement and those who rely on the hangar-division. Here, what's the issue?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18215	Time, Mr. Bećirović!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18216	Can someone, if they slow down those three fascist organizations, say some of those three aren't fascists, so let's open up a debate to see what the problem is?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18217	Thank you. We now have replicas in order: Prodanović, Kalabić, Raguž. I don't know what the Okolić is, isn't it a discussion? Okay. Let's go. Dear Ambassador Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18218	Dear Mr. Chairman, my false quote, i.e. the replica, refers to the distinguished colleague Bešlagić. Before that, let me just say one thing. It is indisputable that BiH should be regulated in a certain way that would be acceptable for all, therefore for the parliamentary majority, in order to reduce the language of hate and to go as quickly as possible in a post-conflict period, so as not to bring it into a dilemma. This is one problem. Mr. Bešlagić cited two false allegations. One's acting like it's not, what I'm going to do, Tuzla is who she is, i.e. SDP. Well, that's not true. Here, in this House, two MPs from the SDA, one from the Party for BiH, are not so. I don't think we're making some kind of confusion about how we have absolute support in one sense. Secondly, when you talk about initiatives, I want to remind you that the SDPs are two, at least two I remember, now I can say, here the initiatives supported. One refers to bringing this state strategy to fight corruption and another to support the construction of the monument to Srđan Aleksić. And I have to warn you of one thing that's very symptomatic here. 79 Your relationship with these initiatives is destructive in... terms of action in Parliament and it is opposition. Yeah, okay! But then you have to count that you can't get all the support that way. I, for example, must, therefore, refer to you and, in this sense, need much closer to having talks and obtaining support within parliamentary groups and from parliamentary clubs for an initiative that would be constructive. BiH needs a future more than the past, unfortunately tragic. I'll tell you one more thing. In BiH and in these areas, it will take a lot of laws to rehabilitate innocent victims. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that the vast number of innocent victims of the former political regime, of Informbiro, of the Glog of the island, of the female prison, of the rebellion in the Casino province, is that I don't count anymore, I mean after World War II. These are sad and tragic cases of everything, of all the people and of all the citizens of this country. We in that story that you recently ran, one activity, which is very symptomatic, it's a complete replacement of thesis. I'll just tell you this sentence. For example, your activity as regards the Law on Salary in BiH's institutions, I think it's a huge shame for this country. If, right now, I'll tell you, if it's 57 elected MPs, or... delegates, I am, right now, to be zero marks. But, gentlemen, you're cheating on the public. The budget of these 57 elected MPs and delegates is less than 1% of the budget being misused in this country and there is objective doubt that you are lobbyists who would like to be excluded from these laws, and they are not a small number. That's all. I'm just sorry, I just wanted to say: it's the wrong approach on that so-called. With gold shovels, which, I'm convinced, many of you have long ago. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18219	Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18220	So you see how an unserious and political approach to someone this important, who thinks he's had all the minds of this world, can put him in a position. You see how politics is a miracle. How the distinguished colleague for only three sessions crosses the road from Efendija Bećirović, Mr Bećirović, to another Beqirovic.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18221	Please be respectful.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18222	Well, it's with respect. That, me, I didn't say anything, I didn't. When he voted against the Serbian Orthodox Church, he was from that position. When he voted against the European path of BiH, he was a gentleman today, allegedly fighting those who allegedly support fascism, he is a friend today. I respect that, but I think it's politicization. It is an attempt of pre-election rhetoric and stories in which the SDP managed to take down some in the Federation, for God's sakes, by the corner. I have to admit, it did. I don't know why they're quiet and they're so afraid of you. That's a fact. But we have no reason to remain silent because this kind of demagogy, what Denis Bećriović is not saying, is why he does not tell the story of lustration in his initiative. Why are you keeping your mouth shut about this? Why, next to us, besides the war criminals who, for example, committed crimes in this war... 80
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18223	Please, Mr. Križanović, let's not throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18224	...please, walk people who, in the name of national courts, killed people in the name of the people, shot dozens of people. Look, it's our truth, which we must face. They're walking the Tuzl. They walk on behalf of the People's Court, you know what the Communist Party People's Court was like? Court, that's me. That's a fact. That's not mentioned. There's just, it's a very dangerous black-and-white picture that's being talked about, very dangerous. We're not for it, we're not for it. We respect this part, but in such a way that people are presented with this situation that you're talking about. You're telling the fact that the Western allies determined what they found in Tehran. Yes, but you are forgetting the fact that the U.S. government has decorated Draža Mihajlović. Whose court is more upright now? The court of Denis Bećirović or the court of the United States, the position of the greatest allied force! Should we open that kind of story? She's who she is. So it's not black and white. It's a little more complicated than the way you want to present it. It's dangerous how you represent it. It's on the trail of new divisions. Why did you kick out of your syntagma, which you used for 50 years, with clericalism? (?) No microphone turned on I'm asking you! Well, you took a big one.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18226	Please... don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18227	So please, you took a big bite, politicization. You want to flirt with some religious communities, so say throw it out. You know, it's not smart, because we have now, we're thinking of taking some things... I know that, with what you're doing today, there's always a story about clericalism. Now all of a sudden, there's no such thing. Like that was no longer disputed. I'm ending it, and I'm going to tell you that this is too complicated and complex a question to solve in this way. My proposal, Mr. Bećirović, is to take the advice of the MPs, take a break and do this as people suggest, so that this has a positive outcome. When you spoke of letters – these people only ask Bećirović to support this, everything is conditional on it – I did not receive any letter from the NGO sector to ask me to vote today, not a single letter. Does that mean I have to realize I shouldn't vote? No, because it doesn't reflect the right picture of the situation. A huge part of the NGO thinks that me and everyone else should vote, we should support it, but not in this way. There are some 10 or 15 letters here, which I respect, addressed to one man because only he is supported and that he only votes. If he just votes, we know what the result will be, if the rest of us don't vote. I think that such hard words and such presentation of the truth, I must be honest, can only lead to a new division. We talked about how this should be done, precisely because this is a complex situation and who it is that should decide on this, who is that capacity that can bring 81 such courts in this time which is very difficult and complicated and BiH is exactly a challenge for these things, because here there is something that has not been faced in Western democratic states by one-nationals, which did not have problems with even democratic regulation. Here it is forgotten that the truth has been established for 45 years in a different environment that is not mentioned, and it is asked of me to accept it and prioritize that it is the only truth.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18228	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18229	And if we're going to solve this completely, I am. I did open files that no one's talking about. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It doesn't matter what's out there, what's out there, it's true this, because in a partisan movie it's said like this, and now we all have to say it's a folk. I respect that and I respect that history and it's not disputed and I don't change my judgment about them as I did years ago and today, but it's unacceptable to just keep it in black and white form. And again, I propose that it be accepted – this is what I end up with – suggestion, that we do not open up further this way, the suggestion of MPs who say under what conditions this can go on and should go on, but not in this way as it is started.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18230	Thank you. I've got lines now. So, honourable MP Raguž, pa Ahmetović, Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18231	Thank you very much. Here, dear colleagues, I've worked really hard and I was afraid to even think I was going into a debate about such sensitive issues. Here, until the last minute I fought with myself, but I still have to say two or three sentences. Look, when we talk about the victims, when we talk about the symbols, and if we pretend to get it to verify this high house, then we'd really have to talk to the arguments. And that this initiative has stalled in its ambition to fight the use of hate language, racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism and chauvinism, I think it would get a general promotion from all BiH citizens. And that's what we needed here today. But, if you wish, and I will not pollomise with Mr Bećirović either – I believe he has the legitimate right to launch these initiatives – but I do not think he can claim to get broad public verification and in this parliament, if he remains in ideological position. And the rest, gentlemen, is in ideological position. And I'm just asking a question under which symbols, if we're already talking about the ban on symbols, have killed tens and hundreds of thousands of people after World War II, not to mention some of the most famous... 82
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18232	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18233	I'm asking under what symbols...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18234	Please... don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18235	...because they're people from these places. It doesn't matter where they were killed. Does it matter where they were killed? They were also killed in the name of ideology, without a proper court and without a lawyer. That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Bećirović, and the need for this country to never kill any man again or any man in subjective will, but that there is justice for every man and for every person. You didn't achieve it entirely with this resolution and... if we can go that way towards the Council of Ministers and look for a common platform, let us support it. Don't make ideological wars here. This is the 21st century. Our children should be facing laws and conventions and standards in the future, not in the past.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18236	Thank you. The following is Ambassador Ahmetović: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18237	The replica of counterpart Kalabić and I think it is unacceptable and incorrect for counterpart Kalabić to use the name efendija in a negative connotation. I don't think it makes any sense to work in this parliament, and in particular to bring it into the context of voting or not voting for an agreement with the Serbian Orthodox Church, and the institution represented had no negative views on the signing of the agreement. I think it is incorrect that the institution of the efendium, which I highly appreciate, for that reason, you should not bring in any negative context in this House either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18238	Mr. Križanović, you have no more, you have two replicas. Well, you didn't come in time for the discussion, you know. No, you had two replicas. Dear MP Bećirović asked for a replica, right? You'll wait a minute. Finally, honourable MP Ajanović: a discussion. Here you go. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I come from an anti-fascist family and I'm an anti-fascist myself, and if the black devil were to apply for certain legal regulations on the ban on anti-fascism, I would be in favour of that idea and I would vote for that idea there. I just need to say some things here. I congratulate Mr Bećirović for getting this much support from certain associations, NGOs, but I am surprised that these NGOs did not support me or anyone else to pass the law. I have to get right here, Mr. Bećirović has... advocated the passing of such a law, with all possible... his skills and knowledge, and I certainly thank him and approve of it. I've got to put a grudge on this initiative here, even though I said I'd support it, no matter who it is. I think there are a lot of ideological remarks here in this title. And that's not good. It's not good, many people don't know that the hangar handžar-divizija didn't have a fascist, political program. It was a division, an armed force of the German fascist army, which, please, wait a minute, don't laugh – which in France was the first unit of fascist Germany, meaning the fascist German forces, rebelled against the German army and the monument of that division is in France, because 90% of these people died fighting against German troops. The other thing is, this looks like what I'm saying this looks like to me, a little bit like ideologically. In the former Jugosalvija, if one friar or one pop were convicted, a single hojo would have to be condemned 100%. And at a certain point, I know in Tesnje that... came to condemn three men and then an honorable Srbin, honorable Srbin Svetozar rose up and said: people, they can't be Muslim... extremes, when they every night in a certain buffet pile by 12 o'clock in the evening. But they wanted to declare them nationalists just because they published the book of the Epislimic Muslim Song, which triggered the initiative to rehabilitate Musa Ćazim Ćatić, who was one of the greatest poets on the ground of the former Yugoslavia, who was completely forgotten and that the initiative for the creation of pearls was launched in Tesnje, which is Muslim literature. Eh, such an approach, I would hate to participate. And in an anti-fascist approach, I raise both my hands to bring, to initiate this initiative and to bring certain features, because this is what this country needs, this country. We are obliged as parliamentarians to do so. And that's why I'd agree with some of the people who discussed it. If you're looking closely at these reports that have come, it doesn't matter if they're ordered or not ordered, it's important that people have chosen to pass a certain law... according to certain fascist groups. And that's very important, and that's why we have to support it in this form or that form, and we can't get out of not having to do it. Only the Association of Demobilised Fighters of the Tuzla Municipality has given full support under the same title, and all other titles have said they agree to support the adoption of the Law on the Prohibition of Neofashist Organizations and the use of their symbols. And I think that conclusion should be, I mean, it should be supported anyway. What else does this initiative make me happy? Regardless of how anyone will understand, I am pleased that support from the RS also came from this initiative, which means that the antifascism spirit did not completely die throughout BiH. Thank you, so much. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18240	Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18241	I think we should support this initiative the way it is. She's a little clumsyly formalized, like a hangar-handžar-divizija. As the esteemed professor said, she had a rebellion in France, I think, '44. year, then she was torn apart, killed, disappeared. After that, there were no organizations that inherited some traditions of this hangar-division, but it seems that in Bosnia we should have this sacred tripod. If they have Ustashas, Chetniks, then we need to invent some Muslims, Bosniak fascists, so here we go, to get the content of the law. So, the SDA in its programming goals... cited the fight against fascism as well as any kind of totalitarianism. And what counterpart Bećirović said that I can never even out fascists and anti-fascists, I'm afraid these anti-fascists used to get even sometimes, because Stanjin must have been an anti-fascist. Hitler was killing other peoples, and Stanjin, I think, killed nearly 20 million Rus. What's fascism? Fascism is the oppression of another, different, one who thinks differently, who says otherwise, slanders, lies, does, and then chooses... one island down, the naked island, there are no trees on it, so their fellow communists on it, because they think otherwise. Or what pola Pot was doing: death fields for his own people, just because they think otherwise. They're both genetic both in language and in faith with him, but they think differently. It's all, it's all kind of fascism. So, I think we still need to refer this to the Council of Ministers and let the Council of Ministers then decide on the name of the law, give it that freedom, and in the definition of what neofashism is, etc. But we shouldn't, and we shouldn't reject the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18242	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Okolić: discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18243	I give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18244	You're giving up. Dear Ambassador Križanović had a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18245	Thank you. I'll be real quick. So, I'm sorry that this is how one debate went in one wrong direction at a time, and I think we should go back to what my colleague Izetbegović was saying that, however, we understand the essence of the initiative and refrain from commenting as a final legal solution. This is an initiative to pass a certain law. And, I don't think I'm going to fix anything, and so I'm giving up further discussion, but I just wanted to say that I'm sorry that two or three colleagues, 85, speaking to both the promoter and the SDP, referred to us as comrades, trying to provoke us a little bit or insult us, I don't know. But here's the answer to those colleagues, not everyone. So, at the Socialist International, we address each other as friends and comrades. And by the way, we're gentlemen to you. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18246	Dear Ambassador Bahtić, the replica, is it? Discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18247	I support this support, I support 100% discussion by my colleague Raguž to open files after '45. For years, especially in Krajina, we know the well-known cazinski Rebellion when 50 Bošnjak without a court were killed, thousands of them expelled, barefooted, in Serbia, in Dubica, in Gradiška. You know who did it. We need to open the illustration once in this House, make a bill. I would only add to this letter Denis Bećirović a ban on Ustasha, Chetnik organisations and communist organisations and those who lean on those organisations. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18248	Dear Ambassador Huskić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18249	I don't slow down anyone calling each other whatever they want. It's his right. But it doesn't make sense for anyone to say it's gentlemen for us and call us shovels. I don't know what else to say. The only relief there is that we're called gold shovels, unlike these ordinary shovels, it's still a higher one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18250	Wait a minute. Was it a replica, a replica? Dear Ambassador Alajbegović: replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18251	I would just like to thank Mr Bećirović for the exclusive he showed at the last meeting of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Refugees, Asylum, Youth and Ethics and the absolute unwillingness to hear our discussion, to come to a good conclusion and discuss a phenomenon that has happened and what we have discussed very much on that commission. And I would also, apart from that exclusion, thank him for a certain kind of threat he referred to and the realization of these threats to the transparency of information that he passed on to a single position that was based on one... extremely professional experience. In order to help on the commission, I took the opportunity to talk about the appearance of certain press pressures on 86 MPs and the inability of some MPs because of their specific mental structure to withstand certain situations and to react inappropriately at certain times, which I have clearly and aloud condemned in the manner of behaviour. Later, however, there was a very unpleasant situation, and it was neither gentlemanly nor gentlemanly. I actually wanted to share it with the House of Representatives, and so I thank Mr Bećirović for this one gentlemen's relationship and for a style that was really very respectable, especially when it comes to perception and the possibility of adequate horizontal communication with colleagues, or colleagues, where horizontal communication implies communication with itself equal, in order to achieve an adequate goal.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18252	Thank you. Ambassador Bećirović had his last line. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18253	I want, in the end, to read... There's been a lot of suggestions. ... I don't know if there's any more registered debaters.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18254	There is. Mr. Jovičić had a replica, a Kadrić replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18255	If you'll allow me to finally say that I'm reading myself on some suggestions?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18256	Well, here you go. Maybe the replicas after that will be... withdrawn. Dear Ambassador Jovičić: replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18257	Dear Chairman, we have been having a awkward discussion and there is no debate, and I am not the best man, I will now say – there is no Srbin from RS who will first not be against fascist ideology and neo-fascist organisations. Everyone will be. And to break that story like we're defending some Chetnik movement, I don't know who, this or that. The clumsy formulation was in the initiative. This, a respected professor, is looking forward to the initiative. Well, it's a local-level NGO. I wish all NGOs had given their support to this initiative. And as soon as he sees it's SDP, no one will react. In RS, it gets chilly when they see the initiative, whatever it is. Now I'm going to ask you. I'll dati you support for this. Your next session of the initiative is that the Council of Ministers prepares the law to return the property of the Alliance to the communist people. I paid membership fees, I was president – I am proud – at the time of the Action Conference of the Union of Communist Republic Authorities, I paid membership fees, and you took everything from yourself. It's not a gold shovel, it's a gold digger. And the whole train and, I don't know, the compositions. Eh, that initiative when you support yourself, gentlemen of SDP-87, so let's share with the people the property that you, the vast one, took to yourselves, unwarrantedly, and made yourself known to be a follower and heir, and I also paid for it, built it, and, I don't know, all of mine, so I don't see who was all here in the Communist Union. Oh, my Bog, there's a lot of us. That you share it, here, we will not take our own, our own parties, and ourselves, but to the people to return it. Will you support such an initiative? Oh, it's not your idea. You will never again propose any initiative, you, on your own behalf, when you hear the one we shall vote happily. We have a majority so you will always be called the parliamentary coalition, the parliamentary majority, you can vote for anything, you can do anything, like we don't respect you. We highly respect you, but don't keep in the pre-election and election years pushing some initiatives, laws everywhere. So please, please, I'm passing through Bashharshi, and your five activists are calling me, saying, sir, will you sign the petition? Against, I said, who? He says against you. They've already convicted me. Lucky for women, so I shake cultural hands with them, and I've shown that I was a gentleman, and I say hello and say, please, how much SDP has paid you for being on duty. Run, it's raining, I'll buy myself an umbrella now because it's raining. Don't make a mess. Let's make a deal. And this... consider it serious, most seriously: there is no man, not in RS, but in BiH, which is not against fascism, people. Don't turn the thesis now, so we're defending something. It's just a matter of work. But your initiatives that go undefined, vaguely to collect political points are not welcome, Mr Bećirović. Well, you know that I'm extremely respectful of you and all of you from the SDP, because you're small. Well, it has no danger from you, and then I bow down to you and say it's good. Whatever you run, I know it won't work, no one will support it and it's good. There's no danger. Now, what I'm saying is, it's not an insult, this is really correct, it's correct, Mr. Selima Bešlagić, it's correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18258	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18259	Here I go. So, please, we'll support your initiative, I don't know what title, will you support the initiative to return the property to the people!? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, you'll get it next time, and we'll see how we do this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18261	Reverend Halilović had it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18262	Just for a little while. I was... really, after Mr. Beriz Belkić's discussion, I was almost certain that there would be no more discussion and that we would be able to overcome these narrow-minded, small-owned councils, to... skip it because I agree with all those who... found 88 waved at this initiative that it was a bit ideologically colored, that it went three steps forward, to prejudge some, predetermined things, what the Council of Ministers should do etc. And this would be more appeal to the MPs, so this initiative, we need one such law as one democratic country, one such law we need. My appeal would be if this initiative were supported, she would go to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers will draft a bill and then we'll discuss here whether the Chetniks or the hangar-handžar-divizija or who they are, or whether they're Ustasha or 15 or 16, then we'll have a chance to step by step because, after everything that's happened to us in this period of '92-'95. For years, I don't think this parliament should allow itself the luxury of refusing one such initiative. And once we get the draft law from the Council of Ministers, then we'll work this out a little bit more detail. And I don't think we should be in the way here. I don't mind it being SDP, I would support this initiative if it had come from any political party. We need this, and I think we should support this, this initiative. And when we get from the Council of Ministers, then we'll outsmart what's what.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18263	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kadrić had it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18264	I thank you, Your Honor. So, I will support this initiative no matter what I agree with many earlier, who have been saying that perhaps the title of this initiative should be rephraseed but, regardless of all these things, I will... support this, although in this title of the initiative we are not talking about who will be proposing this law. Probably, it'll be... Council of Ministers. Secondly, it is particularly in the interest that in this law, these traditional Handžar divisions will pass, how, what will be their role in all this. I'm a little surprised here that this point doesn't transmit television and then sometimes... I bring myself into doubt, a dilemma, that SDP just... doesn't control the media as much as it does sometimes. Really, I'm surprised television doesn't carry this dot! You didn't give the warrant. So... I congratulate... Denis Bećirović, who has indeed managed to transfer us so quickly to an extended session of the SDP's General Committee, which is currently under discussion, so we are in Tuzla and we are attending an extended SDP session in which we are discussing such an important issue. And here we should thank Denis Bećirović for having managed to transfer us to an extended SDP session, and I ask him to be persistent with this initiative. They almost had one initiative when it came to the award of those gold shovels, but something recently kept quiet, I don't know what it was, as far as it came, whether those shovels were already somewhere... in use, whether someone was using them or something was going on. Have they decided to maybe build some new model of these shovels with some... of their informal coalition partners in these processes. They run around, they open up a lot of questions. So these are important questions. Regardless of all this, I will therefore support this initiative and congratulate Bećirović for transferring us to Tuzla for an extended session of the SDP General Committee to discuss such an important matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18265	Thank you. 89 Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18266	I can't, nor do I intend to change anyone's programming, political, life-giving beliefs. What I can do, I'm saying, and it's my legitimate right to make my point. Whether he is accepted or not, we will see at the vote, but so I cannot force anyone in this House to vote for something. Let each one evaluate on the basis of his arguments, his knowledge of how he will plead. What I'm saying is, both my colleagues Lazar and some other MPs, my programming and political commitment is the fight for the protection of human rights and the freedom of every citizen and every nation, and it's not my self-determination as a member of the SDP, I'm going to say that it's my life's true commitment. I have the strength to say that I express regret, although the youngest, probably, in this House, and condemnation to every violence, to every innocent man who lost his life, no matter who did it, when he did it, from which movement or regime it happened. I also want to say, in the end, it's impossible, however someone's trying to even up fascist movements in these areas with anti-fascist. It's impossible to put a sign of equality between them. It is impossible to try to discredit the people's liberation movement in World War II, thanks to which the Serb, Croatian, Bosniak people were on the side of the world's anti-fascist victory coalition – with those who were criminals. It's impossible to do this for a simple reason because the Ustasha, both in their practice and in their idea, were criminals. Because they passed genocide laws, because in practice they implemented genocide. It is impossible to even it with the Chetnik movement, because the Chetnik movement in its idea, in its programme, was genocide, envisioned the extermination of non-Serb peoples. He did it in practice. It is impossible to defend the handžar-divizija-division in these areas, because it was founded by Adolf Hitler, the Jerusalem-based Mufti EL Huseini and the top of the Independent State of Croatia. She was part of the genocide of Hitlerov III.. The Reich as a formation of that Third Reich and it's impossible to say that it was anti-fascist... Unlike these fascist movements, the popular partisan movement in World War II is, for example, '44. in the Sanhedrin Bridge, a famous Declaration on the Rights of Man and Citizens of BiH, which, if adopted today, would not... any comma could refuse. However, everyone has the right to an opinion. I'm sorry he's not here right now, he's just been reading to me lessons about, about the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, about the practice of the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia, and, unfortunately, he's gone, he's never heard from his colleague Jovičić, who just answered that Jovičić was a member of the Union of Communists and paid membership there, unlike me, who was never a member of the Alliance of Communists. There was a thesis – there was no counterpart Kalabić here, who spoke and he slowly came to the trail of a story which was an official story in a neighbouring country – that's the story of drag Mihajlović, how the United States decorated him... Antifascism and antifascist struggle have been confirmed since '41. until '45. Tehran Conference '43. She made it very clear about the only anti-fascist movement Tito's Partisan movement in these areas. And when World War II ended, when there was no more danger of fascism, when the Cold War began, there was everything and everything. Then someone was recruiting in the west, and stood up, and the Chetniks, and all things. About that, I wouldn't talk. 90 We today, unlike fellow Jovičić who says it is undefined and unclear, and with this I end up, everything here today is very defined and very clear. There are two things here today in front of all the MPs. The first is to say that we want to pass a law banning non-fascist organisations in BiH because they have made genocide... to all the peoples of this country. And the other thing is very clear: to say that the fascist genocide movements in BiH, modelled by Hitler's Nazis and Mussolini fascists, in these areas, were Chetniks, Ustashas and members of the Handar Division. They had the same ideology, served together with fascists, and fought anti-fascists with them. So, it's all clear. As a promoter, I'm not withdrawing the initiative, nor is the text of the initiative, everyone can manifest themselves, has the right to do so, as I have the right to propose this. And I think that for the sake of BiH's future, for reconciliation, for better relations in this country, we need to get the strength and say, people, we need to condemn the Ustasha movement because it has generated genocide against Srbin, because we all know that it has made genocide against Muslims and Hrvat. After all, the Chetnik movement not only killed Bošnjak and Hrvat but also killed the mass of Sprski anti-fascists and in World War II, for example, at the ZAVNOBiH conference, among other things – that with that end – the largest number of delegates had just been from the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18267	Let's get this straight. So, the first vice-president, Mr. Lozančić, is an incorrect allegation, then two replicas: Okolić and Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18268	Very short. Dear colleague Bećirović, I don't know where you're coming from... here, I haven't heard anyone trying to even it out. So that's correcting the incorrect quote, you just said it: it's trying to even the fascist and anti-fascist movement. I didn't hear anyone trying to do that. And you said it was trying. Here he tries to equate the fascist and communist movement. That's the point, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18269	Dear Ambassador Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18270	Thank you, Chairman. Something will be similar in my replica to Mr. Lozančić, because Mr. Bećirović really said on several occasions that it is impossible to even the anti-fascist and fascist movement, and I think, as far as I've been following these discussions, that no one has evened it, and if someone is, and I don't believe that it is, I am publicly building on it, and I believe that others have not evened it, because I am obliged to fence myself from such a big statement. And yet, as far as I understand it, nothing was said about the poor characteristics of partisans as participants and members of one... armed force, but were spoken of as 91 ideology. So it also matches Mr. Lozančić who also wanted to say that there is no need to equate here something that is ideologically similar to perhaps fascism. However, this should all be played out in history and there is much here for history, and my reporting to this replica was to fence around equating such important things, which is antifascism and fascism and not being identified, in my opinion, and I don't identify partisans and Communism as an ideological movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18271	Thank you. Dear Member Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18272	Well, I really didn't think I was answering about this item on the agenda, but I think it's really gone a long way past this last address by Denis Bećirović, who gave himself the right to teach all of Parliament World War II lessons, just like we didn't have a history in schools and colleges, and we didn't really learn anything about World War II, or about movements or who was fascists, who was an anti-fascist. I want to tell you I don't think this issue should be determined by BiH and this parliament, but you seem to have come from '45. In 2008, so you skipped... this time and as if you didn't know that we had another war after World War II and that we had a sea of problems left that this country should solve and which interests, life interests, people and citizens in BiH. I and my children, to tell you the truth, are absolutely not interested in what the Chetniks and Ustasha did and who was what ideologies and what he was doing but I am interested in whether this society and my children in BiH will ensure that they are educated at respectable universities, that they have as intellectuals a worthy life of an intellectual and a finished academic citizen in this country. So in that context, I really didn't mean to answer, but here's what I want to recommend to you, SDP MPs. Every Saturday, at 8:00 p.m., on RTS, there's a TV Serbia series that's going and it's called Selo Gore, and the grandmother's combing. I honestly recommend you take a look at that show, and then you'll know why I'm giving you this advice. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18273	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18274	Did I, as a pronoun, exhaust all my options?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18275	I let you replicate twice in five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18276	So, I don't have a right, do I? 92
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18277	Mr. Chairman, if I may just say, I would really not like to delve into it and I suppose that, dear colleague and MP Denis Bećirović, it is understood that no one is against telling you that you should not fight for the right of every man. I mean, it's absolutely nothing anyone here has expressed that suspicion. But you have to... realize that we have a different approach than that and another thing that is very important. I know I respect yours and your explanation and anything. We in BiH must have a consensus on something that would be respect for all international conventions on the protection of citizens' rights. So hate language is the biggest and most dangerous thing possible, especially if it is in the function of elected officials or media. If we did that to disable and ban and sanction those who promote it, propagate, who are working on it, we would achieve all these stories that you're talking about right now, they wouldn't have any special significance. Sure, I have one more thing to say. Don't absolutely doubt that in the Serbian people, there was a story just now, there's any dilemma about condemning the crime of fascism. It's one of Europe's darkest pasts in the 20th century. And there's no dilemma and you know it. Just now there was one statement from an honourable MP who said he was pleased to be signed by a RS association. It's absolutely not a dilemma. That doesn't need to be questioned. Our relationship with this issue, it is essential that we come to this – competent institutions, Council of Ministers, a resolute ministry – to a legal project that will have the absolute support of this parliament through the law. Whether it will be a declaration and all, we and the Rules of Procedure must disable any word that would lead to it, in order to send a clear message, to bid 50-30 thousand signatures. With 50 signatures of some associations, bringing in a dilemma, now someone will be against it and calling it an anti-fascist, that's what I mean is a complete replacement of thesis. So let's do it. I say once again, therefore, you have an approach that can only be part of a pre-election campaign in Parliament. This is a sensitive question. And when you bring in a legal project, then you have to bring it in so that he has absolute support. You've had several cases where you've been supported by it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18278	Thank you. I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 19th point of the agenda: Ad. 19. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission to bring the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the application and protection of the name of Bosnia and Herzegovina into force The House of Peoples has not been passed the law of this point in the same text. The House of Representatives' College proposes that the Joint Commission be appointed honourable MPs: Adem Huskić, Milica Marković and Martin Raguž. Any other suggestions? 93 If not, I'm closing the argument. Moving to the 20th point, Ad. 20. Giving consent to ratification
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18281	I will be very brief and on the Commission... I discussed this and on the Foreign Affairs Commission I was against two of these, two points from this agenda point, and they refer to BiH's credit line. I would just like to remind this parliament that, with these credit debts, the total amount of debt for this period, since this coalition is in power, has crossed over a billion and 200m euros and I think it should be taken into account in some future period, especially when it comes to jurisdiction. Perhaps, with one conclusion that the Council of Ministers undertakes to try to reach some criteria when BiH's external borrowing is at stake because the powers of this parliament are approximately guaranteeing. We are juryed by municipalities, businesses, cities, entities, and without any authority or insight into the real structure and needs and, in particular, the spending of these funds. There's a situation where the loans were raised and spent, that nothing was done. In the end, you would... a common people say... eat a donkey wolf. And finally, again, the BiH state will return it. I would just like to warn Parliament of the ease of giving consent to such enormous and, in my opinion, unnecessary borrowing of BiH because, ultimately, this will have to be returned by our children or our grandchildren, and we will have to raise our hands very smoothly and easily for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18282	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18283	I thank the chairman. The Commission, when we discussed these agreements and agreements, concluded that, in principle, when we are discussing these 94 borrowing agreements, not only BiH institutions but also lower levels of government, from municipalities, cantons, Federations, etc., that there is a certain, what Mr Halilović says, is easy to accept these agreements, borrowings, obligations, etc. And we've established, there's been a number of facts, several of these project... responsibilities. For example, I'm from Krajina, I was saying that we have a sanitary dump that was given consent, a World Bank post, but regional so-called. The dump... that loan eats, spends money, no reaction. In that sense, we have asked for a conclusion by the Council of Ministers to provide us with information on these agreements, duties, the status of these projects, and to see where it is stuck, because there is indeed an institution where it does not end up, and as Parliament, I do not think we have the right to just observe it, but that we should also do certain things and therefore we have asked for information in the last five years to be delivered to us on these projects.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18284	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18285	I don't know how many colleagues my previous speakers have met and how many of us as representatives are familiar with the procedure, so from the kind of nature of the project, the candidate project, through all the lower levels of government. So it takes at least three filters, three levels of government, I speak from the Federation or two from the RS, to reach the BiH Parliament with, of course, the previous opinion of the Council of Ministers. So, the evaluation of this project. It is mainly infrastructure projects and it is about funds that are very favourable and there are no more favourable ones on the world capital market. These are IDA terms where interest is per year, at an annual level, about 1% to 2%, grace period from five to ten years, etc. and what is... one rule and practice that a significant part of these credit funds, after a certain time, is written down and, in addition, the implementation of these projects is under very strict moritoring, both the donor and some other and international organisations. So if anything in this country is as transparent as an investment, then it's projects that are financed from these funds, and let's not have reserves on projects like this, but let's support them and lobby them to get as many projects as possible, so that in this way, under these conditions, they are funded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18286	Thank you. If there are no more reports, I conclude the debate and the College appreciates that it is enough to hold consultations between clubs by 17.45 and then it is time to vote. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and fellow Members of the Parliament, please... Dear Ambassador Jovičić, please, we need to concentrate on the vote. 95 Since the records from 26th and 27th session were practically without discussion, I propose to the House that we adopt both minutes at once; if there were objections, they would vote individually, if you agree. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 37, without "against" and "abstained". I understand we've adopted both protocols. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Dear Ambassador Lijanović asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18288	Since most of the MPs did not receive my law until today's session and did not have the opportunity to study the provisions of the law, I would withdraw – the withdrawal of the law by Article 127. - and I would suggest that we vote on Article 126. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18289	Thank you. We declare the request of MP Jerka Ivanković Lijanović for consideration of the bill's proposal, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 19, "against" 14, "restricted" three. We've adopted the request. We're moving to the fourth item of the agenda. We are voting on the law in the second reading, with amendments adopted on the Commission. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! We have a request, we have a request for a repeat vote. Please prepare, we will vote again on this law. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 33, "against" three, "abstained" one, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have passed this law. 96 We move to the fifth item of the agenda. We are voting on the Proposal for a Framework Law on the Protection and Rescue of People (second reading) Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 35, "against" was not, one "abstained". Enough entity majority. I realize we've passed this law. We're moving on to... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Is that necessary now for us to vote again? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18300	Here, I really need to draw attention to an absurd situation. Here, I happen to use this... We usually combine the debate specifically on a document, report, law, etc. and the conclusions, and then we plead. Most of the conclusions we got here on the tables and, during the debate on agenda points, we couldn't through the debate indicate that something, possibly, could or might not, or look back at something etc. I just want to draw your attention to the fact that in the future, perhaps for a statement, we have come to conclusions on which the debate was being held, or which was the chance to discuss during the debate on the agenda. Because let's say this, specifically about this conclusion during the debate, would probably be a reaction in the sense that something can't, etc. This is how we were put in a position to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18301	Business intervention is in place. This is... the imperfection of the Rules of Procedure that we have said to resolve, but I warn the MPs that they have had time to conclude the debate on all points of the agenda that in the consultations – because they have already received all the conclusions, you have received all the conclusions – on your clubs you decide whether these conclusions will be supported or not. Therefore, we are now pleading on this conclusion. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 14, "against" 12, "abstained" 11. We don't have a consensus on this conclusion. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! “For” 13, “against” 13. There is no general majority now, and otherwise it is “against” 11. So this conclusion hasn't been adopted. 103 We move to the 16th point of the agenda. This is about the Labour Report and the Financial Report of the Postal Traffic Agency. With the report, we have a conclusion. You want us to declare ourselves individually or also for the report and for the conclusion of our commission? Together. Please prepare to vote. We're voting on the report on the work and conclusion of our commission. You can vote now! "For" 26, "against" was not, "abstained" seven. With enough entity majority, we adopted the report. We move to the 17th item of the agenda: the report on the protection of personal data in BiH and the work of the Data Protection Commission. We're voting on the report. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 30, "against" was not, "abstained" six. I understand we've adopted the report. We move to 18th point: Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's initiative. I remind the House, as I mentioned at the outset, that, regardless of the opinion of our joint commission, we are voting on the initiative. If the initiative passes, it goes further, if it falls, it does not return to the commission stage. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We're voting again. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18304	No microphone 104 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-29-0.u18305	Wait a minute, we'll vote again, Mr. Bećirović. We'll vote again, don't vote. We're voting again on the Initiative. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 24, "against" 11, "abstained" one. Insufficient entity majority. We have no consent or consensus in the College. We vote in the second round. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 24, "against" 11, "abstained" one. Insufficient entity majority. So it wasn't the initiative that was adopted. Since we also have the conclusion of several Members' clubs, which is proposed – please, Mr Bahtić, we vote – and which reads: The Council of Ministers is in charge of preparing the Law on the Prohibition of All Neofastic Organisations and the Use of Their Symbols. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 31, "against" was not, "abstained" four. Listing to share. We move to the 19th point of the agenda: Appointment of three members. Adem Huskić, Milica Marković and Martin Raguž were proposed. Please prepare to vote for this proposal. You can vote now! "For" 30, "against" was not, "abstained" two. Enough entity majority. We've appointed three members. And we are crossing, please: Giving consent to ratification:... a) Framework Agreement and European Investment Banks Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. Vote! "For" 30, "against" was not, "abstained" was not. We've adopted, given consent to ratification. ... b) Agreement on co-operation in the area of defence between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Greece Please prepare for the vote. 105 You Can Vote Now! "For" 33, "against" and "abstained" were not. I understand we've given consent. ... c) Credit agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bank Austria Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 29, "against" one, "abstained" two. I understand we've given consent. ... d) Loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 31, "against" one, "abstained" three. I understand we've given consent. ... e)... The amandman agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 34, "against" was not, "abstained" three. I understand we've given consent. ... f)...... The Convention on Access to Information Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 35, no "against" or "abstained". I understand we've given consent. ... g) Faculty protocol with the Convention Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 36, "against" was not, "abstained" one. I understand we've given consent. Please, colleagues and fellow MPs, just a few notes. Namely, the next session, as we set a calendar for next month in the Extended College, will be May 14th. In the meantime, there will be a rotation... in the College. I thank all MPs for the constructive debate and for their help in holding the sessions so far. Congratulations, everyone, on the Day of Work, May 1st, and May 9, the Day of Fight against Fascism and the Day of Europe. 106 Thank you. The seat is finished at 18.40 hours.
