ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18720	Dear MPs, distinguished guests, please take your seats to begin our work. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, distinguished guests, respected members of the Council of Ministers, here I welcome you all to the 29th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, and I would like to conclude that 41 MPs are present below this session. I remind you that we have concluded the debate on the set agenda of the 29th session and that, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, we are moving on to a statement on the discussed items of the agenda. That's why I'm asking you to focus on the agenda. We move to a statement on the 1st item of the agenda adoption of the minutes of the 28th session of the House of Representatives. Vote now! Something's wrong with the technique! Here, I ask you, after a technical error has been removed, to prepare for the vote, means on the 1st item of the agenda The minutes of the 28th session of the House of Representatives. Vote now! I would like to conclude that 41 representatives are in favour, i.e. that the minutes of the 28th session of the House of Representatives have been unanimously adopted. We move to a statement on the 2nd point of the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading). In accordance with Article 76(2), we vote first on the proposed conclusions. I would like to remind you of the proposal for the conclusion of the distinguished representative Velimir Jukić. It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to quickly approach the creation of a new Law on conflict of interest in BiH's government institutions, given the positive experience of other countries, as well as the experience of the Central Election Commission. Prepare to vote on the proposal for a conclusion. Vote now! With 36 votes "for" and five "abstained", enough entity majority, I agree that the proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. 2 We move to a statement on the proposal for the conclusion of the distinguished representative Branko Dokić. It is up to the Council of Ministers to quickly approach the creation of a new Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH institutions that will be based on the positive experiences of EU member states on these issues and refer it to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for adoption by the first quarter of 2009. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 35 votes "for" and five "abstained", as well as enough entity majority, I also find that the proposal for the conclusion of the distinguished representative Dokić was accepted. We don't have an amendment to the bill and we're moving on to a statement on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" 22, "against" nine, two "abstained", there is not enough entity majority. There's no consent in the College. We approach the vote, all vote, votes "against" count.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18721	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18722	We're moving on to a plea. There's no consent in the College so... no discussion, no debate. I understand what you're saying but there's no discussion because... there's a clear view of the members of the College that there's no consent. So I understand you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18723	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18724	Come on, come on in.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18725	Thank you very much for chairing this word that is not common in this procedure, but it is a law... that we have worked very hard on. And I suggest you, as a College, leave three days and try to find agreement and come out with a coherent attitude towards Parliament. I think there's room for something like that, so we don't break the law. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18726	I'm sorry... here, you've tried to explain that. There's no consent in the College, so we're moving on to a plea. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! 22 "for", 12 "against", seven "abstained", with 11 "against" from one entity. I find the bill not accepted. We move to a statement on the 3rd point of the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices (second reading). Previously, we are declaring this amendment to the honourable representative of Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18727	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18728	Pulled, pulled.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18729	The reminder says you didn't withdraw, so thank you. We're moving on to a statement on the bill. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 40 votes "for" and one "abstained" vote, I agree that we have adopted the Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. We move to a statement on the 4th point of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Number Act (second reading). There are no amendments. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! In addition to 38 votes "for" and one "abstained" vote, I agree that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Code has been adopted. We move to a statement on the 5th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the personal identity of BiH citizens (second reading). Also, there are no amendments. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 4 With 40 votes "yes" and one "abstained" vote, I agree that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the personal identity of BiH citizens has been adopted. We move to a statement on the 6th point: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading). Also, there are no amendments. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! In addition to 39 votes "for" and one "abstained" vote, I agree that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted. We move to a statement on the 7th point of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading). Also, there are no amendments. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 37 votes "yes", four "abstained" and a sufficient entity majority, I agree that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted. We move to a statement on the 8th point: The proposal for a law on the Fiscal Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the plenary phase, we have the amendments to Momčilo Novaković. Since it's since the debate, do you have any amendments to the honourable representative? Is there any need to read the amendments? There's no need for me to read. Is he supposed to read?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18730	Well, I guess everyone... the amendments...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18731	I will nevertheless choose to read, since, behold, it has been a long time since the debate: Amendment I In Article 2 after the bracket is placed on the point, and the other text is deleted. Please prepare. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please prepare to plead. 5 Dear Representative Kalabić wanted something.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18733	We need... a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18734	I'll give you 10 minutes off. [[PAUZA]] Dear MPs, please take your seats. We're just waiting for you to move on. We're continuing our work. We move on to a statement on amendments to the distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković and since I heard loud comments from the parliamentary bench that it is not a great help to read these amendments, I will not read it,... believing that you have used these 10 minutes to read these amendments yourself, so we will move on to a statement. Amendment I.. moliti prepare for your vote. Vote now! 11 “for, ” 23“ against, ” seven“ abstentions. ” I find that amandman I. is not accepted. amandman II. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 20 “for, ” 13“ against, ” six“ abstentions. ” With a sufficient entity majority, I find it to be amandman II.. accepted. Amendment III. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! Seven votes "for", 24 "against", 10 "abstained" amendments were not accepted. Amendment IV. Vote now! Six “for, ” 21 “against, ” 11“ abstentions. ” The amendment was not accepted. 6 We move to the declaration of amandman v. glasovati now! Seven “for, ” 23 “against, ” 10“ abstentions. ” This amendment has not been accepted either. We move on to the Declaration on amandman vi. Vote now! Six “for, ” 21 “against, ” 14“ abstentions. ” Amendment VI. not accepted. We move on to the Declaration on amandman vii.. Vote now! 17 "for", 13 "against", 11 "abstained", there is not enough entity majority. The college has reached its agreement and I agree that this amendment has been accepted. We move on to a statement on the draft law in the second reading, with the amendments accepted. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 32 votes "yes", three "against" and five "abstained", I conclude that the proposal for a law on the Fiscal Council of BiH has been adopted. We move to a statement on the draft law on salaries and fees in BiH institutions (second reading). I remind you that several amendments have been tabled to the bill at the plenary stage, as well as amendments that defend themselves and amendments challenging the amendments to the Committee. Due to a large number of amendments, the committee responsible has prepared a review of the amendments for voting in accordance with the order of the articles. So we will vote on amendments in order as prepared by the Committee on Finance and Budget. I also remind you that during the debate, representatives Zlatko Lagumdžija and Branko Dokić submitted proposals for conclusions. In accordance with Article 76(2), we vote first on the proposed conclusions. First, we vote on the proposal for the conclusions of the esteemed representative of Lagumdžija in two points, so I will remind you of the text of the Council of Ministers to prepare a new draft law on salaries and fees in BiH institutions, and secondly, the competent authorities are tasked to increase the current coefficients by 10% of the employees treated by public officials and professional staff in Article 12, 14, 25. Proposal for a law, professional military personnel treated in Article 17, political officials treated in Article 21 and employees treated in Article 27. 7 Please prepare for the vote on the proposal for a conclusion. Vote now! With eight votes "yes", 20 "against", 12 "abstained", I conclude that the proposal for the conclusions of the respected representative Lagumdžija was not accepted. We move on to a statement on the proposal for the conclusion of the distinguished representative Dokić. I'll remind you of the text.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18736	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18737	I thank the honourable representative. We're not going to make a statement about the conclusion. And now we move on to a statement on the amendment proposal. I'll do it before you do. Dear Representative Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18738	Dear Chairman,..., esteemed guests, I would like to remind you that after so many hours of discussion, in the end, the Joint Commission, or as it is called, with representatives of the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Finance, has accepted two or three more amendments, and they were practically to be complemented, i.e. the whole with these amendments adopted by the Finance Commission, and this was to be voted on. I think they were completely reasonable and nothing new changes after all that, that we should have voted on and I'm asking you not to change the approach in that regard.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18739	I thank the honourable representative. I just want to remind you that in the time of the interruption, so to speak, the 29th session to this day, the College together with the competent committees and the Extended College of this House discussed the moderations of how... to come to the conclusion of this law. And on a proposal from the College of Closests, the Extended College yesterday accepted a compromise amendment and in accordance with Article 18. ...18th and 118th paragraphs (3) The extended college has accepted and I will when the time comes to declare these amendments and read them, so. It is a solution that the Extended College has concluded that it can ensure that this law is adopted today in parliamentary procedure. Here, that you know,... and the commitment means: with the report of the competent commission, the bill proposal and the report of the competent committee and this compromise proposal... that the law pass, we hope for one significant majority in this House. Dear Representative Kalabić. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18740	Well, just one request. Given these new circumstances, I ask the other colleagues who are able to withdraw their amendments, given that this is a new fact and that they have that in mind, so they will make it easier for us to do a lot of work.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18741	Thank you. So here's the information that SNSD pulled all its amendments. Is Honorable Representative Dokić reporting?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18742	Well, it's not officially clear to me right now, even though it's unofficially clear to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18743	All right, all right. I'm only asking for...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18744	This house has not officially informed which is the new moment, which has already agreed with the Kolegijum, although I know what the new moment is. Since I know what the new moment is, I would like to point out that my amendment, which by mistake did not come to the conclusions of the Finance Commission amendment, has nothing to do with the changed situation regarding the agreement that... the law would pass. Hence, it does not apply to any of the apostles or to those who are employed in the congregation. So I really don't see any reason, except for anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18745	Honorable representative,...means the appeal for withdrawing the amendment is not binding, so you have the full right to remain on your amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18746	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18747	Dear Representative Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18748	... Me too. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18749	Thank you. Dear Representative Huskić has withdrawn the amendments. Dear Representative Ivanković. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18750	I suggest we make a statement on the amendments that we agreed on yesterday at the Expanded College in order to practically open up the assumptions that we should withdraw.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18751	A constructive proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18752	The amendments, which refer to that part.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18753	Thank you. Dear Representative Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18754	Here's what I'm gonna do... on the commission that's been through. By the way, if the Commission has any amendments to withdraw, so do I.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18755	Thank you. We're moving on to a plea. I will now read this proposal for an amendment to the Extended College. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Proposal for a bill of payment classes A1, A2, A3 and A4 are deleted, thereby the payment classes A5 and A6 become the payment classes A1 and A2. (I'll read all the amendments, and I'll say the brief description of what this is about). amandman II. This Regulation shall enter The bill of law is deleted. Amendment III. In the entire bill of law, the text relating to MPs and envoys shall be deleted. In accordance with these amendments, the need for amendments in the parts of the amendment of the Financial and Budget Committee is hereby terminated, and Amendment II is therefore to be amended. Commissions shall delete, amandman iv.e. Commissions: Classes A1, A2 and A3 are deleted, and payments 10 classes A4 and A5 become A1 and A2. Amendment v. povjerenstvo shall be deleted, amandman vi. The commissions are deleted. So it's very simple, it's about amendments that eliminate MPs and representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH from this proposal for a bill of salaries. Please prepare for the vote in accordance with the proposal of the honourable representative. We'll move first on to a statement on these amendments to the Extended College. Please prepare to vote. We'll wait and we'll do it again. So, please prepare for the vote and we'll go to Amendment I of the Extended College. Please vote now. With 31 votes "for", four "against" and six "abstained", Amendment I accepted. We move on to the Declaration on amandman II.. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 34 votes "yes", four "against" and three "abstained", amandman ii accepted. Please prepare for the declaration of amandman III.. Vote now! With 31 votes "for", three "against" and seven "abstained", and amandman III was accepted. As already said, the SNSD Club has withdrawn its amendments. We're going through the list of those you've got in front of you. So I'm going in that order. Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković: amandman I.. Did the MP withdraw? Pulled. Thank you. Has the other amendments been withdrawn?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18756	Everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18757	I would like to thank Reverend Novaković. Adem Huskić also withdrew his amendments. Here we go in turn, the amendments that defend themselves at the plenary stage. Representatives' Club SDA: amandman I.. moliti prepare to make a statement on this amendment. Vote now! With 11 votes "yes", 20 "against" and nine "abstained", this amendment was not accepted. 11 Advocacy Club SDA: amandman II.. ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So, amandman II.. The SDA club pulled out of the procedure. Amendment I to the Honorable Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18759	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18760	Pulled two, three, too. Thank you. Amendment III. The SDA representative club shall remain on Article 12. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 13 votes "for", 18 "against" and nine "abstained", I find that amandman III.. in Article 12, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The SDA club wasn't accepted. Amendment IV. in Article 13(1), the following paragraph is added: U.S.A. Attorney's Club. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With nine votes "for", 20 "against", 12 "abstained", I find that amandman iv.e. not accepted. Dear Representative Huskić has withdrawn the amendments. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following U.S.A. Attorney's Club. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 12 votes “for, ” 19“ against, ” 10 “abstained. ” I also find that this amendment has not been accepted. Adem Huskić gave up. SDA Club on Article 16. Amendment VI. Please prepare to vote. 12 Vote now! 10 votes "for", 20 "against", 11 "abstained". This amendment has not been accepted either. SDA Club: Amendment VII. in Article 17, point (a) is replaced by the following: Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 14 “for, ” 19“ against, ” eight“ abstentions. ” This amendment has not been accepted either. Amendment VIII The SDA representative's club shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 11 votes “for, ” 21“ against, ” eight “abstained. ” This amendment has not been accepted either. Amendment IX. SDA representatives' club on Article 21. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 14 votes “for, ” 18“ against, ” nine“ abstentions. ” It's not amandman IX.. not accepted. SDA representative club: amandman X. to Article 24. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! Nine votes "for", 21 "against", 11 "abstained". The amendment was not accepted. Amendment XI. SDA representatives' club on Article 25. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 11 “for, ” 21 “against, ” nine“ abstentions. ” Amendment XI. not accepted. Amendment XII. SDA Club on Article 27. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 14 votes “for, ” 19“ against, ” eight“ abstentions. ” This amendment has not been accepted either. Amendment I of the Honorable Representative Salko Sokolović to Article 29. 13 Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 11 “for, ” 19 “against, ” 11“ abstentions. ” This amendment has not been accepted either. Dear Representative Huskić has withdrawn his amendments. We move on to a statement on amendments relating to new aspects. Dear representative Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18761	... I'm pulling. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-0.u18762	He's withdrawing the amendment, thank you. And distinguished representative Dokić: amandman I.. moliti prepare for the vote. Vote now! With nine votes "yes", 14 "against", 17 "abstained", I find that this amendment has not been accepted either. We've completed our statement on the amendments. We move to a vote on the draft law on salaries and fees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the second reading, with the report of the Commission and the amendments adopted. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 30 votes "yes", eight "against", one "restricted" vote, enough entity majority, I find that the draft law on salaries and fees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions has been adopted. We move to a statement on the 10th point of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of political parties (first reading). Please prepare to plead. Vote now! With 25 votes "yes", one "against", 13 "abstained" and a sufficient entity majority, I find that the bill has been adopted. 14 We move to a statement on 11th point: Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Domestic Production within the CEFTA Agreement – Proposer: Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović (first reading) The Party of Democratic Action Club has proposed conclusions. We vote first on the conclusions. We have the conclusions: It is up to the Council of Ministers to draw up an analysis of the full application of the CEFTA Treaty and an opinion on the proposed Law on the Protection of Domestic Production. The Foreign Chamber of Commerce is tasked with delivering data on BiH's foreign trade balance, with a special reference to trends following the entry into force of the CEFTA Agreement. The deadline for delivery of requested analysis is 30 days. Please prepare to vote on the conclusions. Vote now! With 30 votes "yes", two "against" and six "abstained", I conclude that the proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. We move to a vote on the bill in the first reading. Please prepare to plead. Vote now! With 20 votes "yes", four "against", 12 "abstained", enough entity majority, I find the proposal for a law in the first reading accepted. We move to a statement on the 12th item of the agenda: Report of the Joint Committee on the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're voting on the Joint Committee's report. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 30 votes "yes", three "against" and six "abstained", I agree that a report by the Joint Committee on the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted. We move on to a statement on the 13th point of the agenda: Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the proposals for the conclusions of representatives of Zlatko Lagumdžija with... 9th joint session of both homes. 15 We vote on the Preddog conclusions of the MP Zlatko Lagumdžija in the second round, according to the Rules of Procedure. The content of the conclusions... contained in the report. I remind you, everyone's voting. The conclusions were adopted, if they get the general majority, provided there are no two-thirds of the vote's entity "against". We're approaching the vote. Please vote now! With 20 votes "yes", 14 "against" and six "abstained", an insufficient entity majority, the proposal for a conclusion was not accepted. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: The appointment of the Chief Auditor and the Deputy Chief Auditor, the Candidates, submitted the ranking list in order for the Chief Auditor. In the debate, a respected representative, Azra Hadžiahmetović, suggested a secret vote on candidates from the ranking list. As you know, the electronic system allows us to do so. I am obliged, before we approach the vote, to put forward a proposal for a distinguished representative to make a secret statement on this matter. Please prepare. So, voting yes, you're voting for a secret plea. Stand by. Vote now! With 22 votes "yes", nine "against", nine "abstained", I agree that the proposal has been accepted to declare this issue in secret. We're gonna have to wait a few seconds for the services to get the system operational so we can do it. So yes, the system was quickly established. We're moving on to a plea. First we'll vote on candidates for chief auditor. The first candidate to receive the general entity majority has been appointed chief auditor, and the other candidates on the list are not to be voted on. After the election of the Chief Auditor, then from the other two constituent nations we will declare ourselves to the Vice Chief Auditor. We move to a statement from the order of the Croatian people. The first candidate with a number of points is the distinguished candidate Milenko Šego. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 33 votes "yes", five "against", two "abstained" and a sufficient ethnic majority, I find that Milenko Šego has been elected chief auditor. 16 We move to a statement on candidates for vice chief auditors. First, we declare the candidates of the Serb people. The first, to which we plead, is the distinguished candidate Dragan Kulin. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 17 votes "yes", 17 "against", 17 "abstained", there is no general majority, I find that candidate Dragan Kulin did not get the necessary majority. We're moving on to a statement on another candidate on the same list. The candidate is a distinguished lady or a lady, I don't know, Božana Trninić. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 31 votes "yes", eight "against", two "abstained", meaning enough of the ethnic majority, I find that Božana Trninić, the deputy chief auditor from the Serb people, was elected. I don't feel it, but I feel the need to make a statement about the next candidate in the order of the Serb people. And we move on to a statement on candidates for deputy chief auditor from the Bosniak people's order. The first, to be declared, is the distinguished candidate Dževad Mekić. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 16 votes "yes", 19 "against", six "abstained", there is no general majority. So we're moving on to a statement about another candidate. The next candidate is the distinguished candidate Samir Mušović. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! Excuse me. It's obviously a mistake for me, so here. This vote is not worth it. We're going to the next statement on candidate Munibu Ovčina. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 11 votes "yes", 16 "against", eight "abstained", I find that candidate Munib Ovčina did not get the necessary majority. Ten minutes break. 17 [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on. The SDA advocates' club has requested a repeat vote on a candidate for the Bosnian people's deputy auditor Munibu Ovčini. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With seven votes "yes", 21 "against", six "abstained", I find the proposed candidate did not get the required majority of votes. We move to a statement on the next qualification candidate: Munevera Bahtić. Please prepare to plead. Vote now! With 27 votes "yes", eight against, one "abstained", enough entity majority, I find that Munevera Bahtić was elected deputy chief auditor from the Bosniak people's ranks. We move on to a statement on the 15th item of the agenda: Considering the report of the House’s committee for 2007 I propose that we declare ourselves in the Reports Package: a/ Constitutional Commission, b/ Committee on Finance and Budget, c/ Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs, d/ Foreign Affairs Committee, e/ Commission on Transport and Communications, f/ Committee on Gender Equality. We'll be making a statement earlier on about the proposal to make these reports known in the... package... Please prepare. Vote now! With 33 votes "yes", five "abstained", I find the proposal accepted. We move on to a statement on the previously read reports of the committees. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 37 votes "yes" and one "abstained" vote, I find that reports of the committees have been read earlier. We move to a statement on the 16th item of the proposed agenda: Discussing the report on work for 2007 of the joint committees of both homes: a/ the Joint Commission for Defence and Security, 18 b/Joint Security and Intelligence Commission for the Oversight of the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency, c/ Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigrants, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, d/ Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, e/ Joint Committee on European Integration, f/ Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development. I suggest we also report these reports in the package. I'm making this proposal for a plea. Vote now! With 35 votes "for", five "abstained", I find the proposal accepted. We are moving on to a statement on all of these reports for 2007. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 36 votes "yes", four "abstained", I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives accepted the 2007 Work Report for the joint committees of both homes that I had read earlier. We move to the 17th item of the agenda: a proposal for a conclusion on the confiscation of former SK BiH's assets. In the debate under this point, the honourable representative Sefer Halilović and the SDA MPs' Club proposed conclusions. However, there has been no consensus among the conceivers in the debate, so we will hold a vote on each conclusion individually. We vote, firstly: on the proposal for a conclusion submitted on behalf of the SNSD Club by the esteemed representative Marković. I hope you have the text of conclusions. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 32 votes "yes", five "against", two "abstained", I find the SNSD's proposal for a conclusion, namely, proposed by MP Marković. We move on to a statement on the proposal for the conclusion of the distinguished representative Sefer Halilović. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 16 votes "yes", one "against", 17 "abstained", there is not enough entity majority. There is no agreement, the College will inform the House... after discussing this issue. 19 We move to a statement on the conclusions of the SDA Club. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 22 votes "yes", three "against", eight "abstained", I find there are not enough entity majority. Within three days, the College will work on an agreement and will inform the House about it. So we've exhausted the statement on the proposal of these conclusions and we're moving on to point 18. Giving consent to ratification: (a) The Strasbourg Agreement on the International Classification of Patents, (b)The European Convention on the Non-Depreciation of Crime against Humanity and War Crimes, (c) the Convention on the Protection of Intangible Cultural Heritage. I suggest that we also declare these points in the package, so before that I would like to make this proposal known that we are voting on all three points in the package. Vote now! With 36 votes "yes", there are no "against", three "abstained", I find the proposal accepted. We move to a statement on granting consent to the ratification of these agreements and conventions that I have read in the package. Please prepare to plead. Vote now! With 40 votes "yes", there are no "no" votes, there are no "no abstentions", I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly has given consent to ratification: under a/ Strasbourg agreement on international classification of patents; under b/ European Convention on the Non-Aging of Crime against Humanity and War Crimes and under c/ Convention on the Protection of Intangible Cultural Heritage. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am concluding the 29th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. The start of the 30th session is at 12.15. The session is closed at 11.55 p.m.
