ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-2.u1721	Ladies and gentlemen,...respected colleagues and colleagues, present representatives of the Council of Ministers, if there are any more media, others present, I welcome you all and open the 13th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 14 delegates present at the session, four from the... Bosniak people, five from... the Croatian people and five from the Serbian people. Mr. Sulejman Tihić justified his absence. For this 13th session, I suggest the next 1. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2008 (second reading) – Proposer House of Representatives This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples. Is anyone answering for a word? No word reported. Since there were no objections, the agenda is considered adopted. We're going to the first and only point of the agenda, Ad. 1. Proposal for a Bill on Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2008 (second reading) – Proposer of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-2.u1724	The Honored Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the Commission for Finance and Budget, as a competent commission, considered, in the second phase of the basic legislative procedure, at its 13th session, the Bill on Budget of BiH and International Obligations for 2008 and after a comprehensive discussion of the details and the Bill's proposal found that only Slobodan Šaraba... had submitted amendments to the draft laws which were unanimously rejected. At the same time, the Commission for Finance and Budget unanimously accepted the text of the Law proposal in the same text as it was delivered by the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, with the following conclusions being adopted: that, in the context of the debate on the Bill Proposal, the Commission for Finance and Budget has reached a conclusion whose adoption is proposed to the House of Peoples, and that: (a) It is binding that the Ministry of Finance and Treasury should allocate from the budget reserve the necessary funds for the building of a library for the amount of 220 thousand marks, and to support the BiH Gender Equality Agency at the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees in the amount of 100,000. Therefore, these were not specific amendments but would be concluded to do so from the existing budget reserve and at the same time: (b) The Council of Ministers is required to do a programme or plan of activities to resolve the accommodation of BiH institutions in order to reduce the cost of leases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-2.u1725	Thank you very much. That's the proposal for a conclusion. We'll get to the bottom of that. Any other interested in the debate? Since we have amendments, will you? Delegate Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-2.u1726	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So the brief explanation of my three amendments is in the text that you have in front of you. The first amendment is for the Programme for the financing of refugees and displaced persons committed to staying in the amount of 3 million. The second amendment is to carry out activities for a population census of 9 million. 3 And the third amendment for the Association of Refugees and Displaced Persons "Remaining" amounting to 120,000. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-2.u1727	Thank you very much. Is there any more interest in the debate? There isn't. I'm closing the debate and I'm asking you to prepare yourself. We'll vote on the amendments first. So, first of all, there's no need for me to read the amendments, I assume you have them. Do you have them? First we will vote on amandman I. Prepare for the vote. You can vote. I'm closing the vote. Thank you. I find that with two votes "yes" and 12 votes "against" this amendment has been rejected. We are going to vote on amandman II.. Prepare to vote. You can vote. I'm closing the vote. I find that with one vote "for" and 13 "against" this amendment has been rejected. Stand by. We will vote on amandman III.. You can vote. I'm closing the vote. With one vote "for" and 13 "against" this amendment has not been adopted. Now we're voting on the Budget Law proposal in the second reading. Prepare to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-2.u1728	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-2.u1729	Please, just a minute. Then, I mean, I'm canceling the vote. I, as far as I got here: accepted the text of the proposal in the same text as the House of Representatives delivered it, no amendments. Therefore, this is special, and later on, the Commission has a positive view. So now we're voting on... Proposal for a Bill on Budget Institutions. Prepare to vote. You can vote. I'm closing the vote. 4 I find that with one vote “against” and 13 “for”... the Law on Budget was adopted in the same form in which it was adopted at the House of Representatives. We're now going to the conclusion statement. We have two conclusions that the Commission has proposed. There are no new conclusions. I put both the Commission's conclusions on the vote, so we don't go individually. Prepare to vote. You can vote. I'm closing the vote. I find that, with 13 votes "for" the House of Nations, it adopted the Commission's proposed conclusions. We've exhausted the 13th-session agenda. I thank you all, and I think we did the right thing. The seat is closed at 15.50 hours.
