ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21923	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 40th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. At today's session, apart from the representatives, our regular guests were invited: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our home and representatives of certain NGOs. I welcome all present representatives and guests as well as representatives of public information funds. According to the service's information, I'd like to conclude that there are 25 MPs present at the session. There are justly no honourable representatives: Jovan Todorović, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Mehmed Suljkanović, Ekrem Ajanović, Milorad Živković, Halid Genjac and Zlatko Lagumdžija. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as part of the previous questions, I will only inform you of two parliamentary initiatives. First, on the initiative of the distinguished representative Husein Nanić, who submitted in 7.11.2008 to include in the agenda a point that reads "The Information of the Council of Ministers on the preparedness of BiH institutions to make commitments in connection with the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement." On the occasion of this initiative, we sent the Council of Ministers an emergency to deliver material, which was also the Council of Ministers' obligation to conclude the House from the 31st session, but to date we have not received the required material, and therefore we were unable to include this point. As soon as we get the right material, this point will be in the session agenda. The next announcement in connection with the request of the esteemed representative, Remzija Kadrić, to convene a special session of the House of Representatives, with only one item on the agenda, which is: 'A debate under the agreement of the Joint Declaration Cović-Tihić-Čović-Tihić-Dodik.' This request has not been submitted to the Rules of Procedure. Article 62(3) states that, I quote: 'Extremely for justified reasons and at the request of at least ten MPs or at the request of most members of the College, the chair will convene a meeting of the House within ten days of the date of receipt of the request. In that case, the agenda of the session may also be proposed during its maintenance." And finally, regarding the parliamentary issue of the esteemed representative Joza Križanović, concerning working conditions in this Chamber, I would like to report that the issue has been forwarded to the services for 2 delivery of the full answer. However, as far as the debate is concerned, I have been asked by the professional service to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, to make sure during the debate that you are facing the microphone and that you do not block the microphone with paper while you are speaking, because in that case, your hearing is weaker. The service also asks you not to move the microphones from where they are located because it also makes certain difficulties, or disrupts their correctness. Here, so much before moving to the agenda. This time, too, we have established amendments and additions to the agendas in the enlarged College, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The draft Act on the Information Society Agency in the second reading was removed, for the reason that the Committee for Transport and Communications provided notice that it was held at a session of 18. ... concluded that further consultations were necessary, and in that sense requested an additional deadline, now of course from the House, in accordance with Article 11(6) of the Rules of Procedure, since the Commission did not deliver the report until the deadline set by the College. Therefore, there is a statement in the agenda of the House on this request from the Commission. The draft agenda is also complemented by the following points: - The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the discussion of the Bill on Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax under the Rapid Procedure, in accordance with Article 127; - The request of the BiH Representative Bajazit Jašarević to discuss the Proposal for a Law on Changes to the Law on Public Procurement under the Rapid Procedure, in accordance with Article 127; - The Declaration of the House on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of the report or on the suspension of the legislative procedure under the Proposal for a Law on the Development of the Information Society of BiH; - The Declaration of the House on a new deadline for the submission of the opinion or on the suspension of the legislative procedure under the Proposal for the Law on Fiscal Cassation of the EU – the Jozo: the Representative of the Committee of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the EU, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the European Union, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia of Croatia of Croatia of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the European to the European to the You've been given a consolidated agenda proposal on the bench. I'm opening a debate on the 40th session's agenda. Dear Representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21924	On behalf of the SDP Club, I propose that the 'Salanica Questions and Answers' point be removed from the agenda, because we believe that this session that continues after the end of a session would take a lot of time and would not be effective. So I suggest that this point be removed from the agenda and I think that would be constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21925	I thank the esteemed representative Bešlagić. The next is Honorable Representative Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21926	I'm sorry, Chairman, I'd just like to comment on what you just said about Mr. Križanović's initiative. I really do have a good opinion on the conduct of our meetings of all three members of the College, but don't ask one initiative in this way. Jozo asked to ensure a better hearing, and then professional services teach us how to behave in speech. Someone likes to talk left, someone right, someone right, and they just haven't told us to get down on our knees and we'll be near the microphone and then! So, I do hear some MPs, especially Joza who's right in front of me, very badly. This hall is very depressing. This way in the west the colors close, with these colors, with these exact colors. And I think the Blue Hall is much more suitable for holding our sessions, and I'd like it to be brought to our senses as soon as possible and to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21927	I thank the esteemed representative Zorić. I'm for the sake of correct and complete information just transferred the information that we received from the professional service. But that's not the end of this initiative. So we've been looking for a full statement of professional service on working conditions in this hall, and I expect we'll get it very soon and then we'll present it to all of us. The next is the honourable representative, you want a little bit of electronic so I don't remember, here's the distinguished representative Bećirović. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21928	In accordance with Article 65(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I propose that we supplement the agenda of the 40th session with the following item of the agenda: - Review of the European Parliament Resolution on BiH, adopted at the plenary session in Strasbourg on 23 October 2008. Given the importance of this topic, I propose that this point be classified as a second item of the agenda and I believe that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has an obligation to consider a European Parliament resolution calling on the Bosnian Herzegovina authorities to speed up BiH's progress on the path of joining full EU membership. I recall that the BiH Resolution reflects the views, assessments and demands of the European Parliament, both in the context of BiH's integration into the EU and the current political situation in BiH. This resolution on BiH, adopted by Parliament, has almost 40 reviews and views, but I must say and quote this last one where all the BiH negotiators are calling on, so all the institutions of this country, including us, Parliament, to be involved in this process and to become the primary actors in the process of reforms that the country must implement. I often, indeed, have to say to be skeptical at some points of the agenda whether or not it will enter the agenda, but I will not doubt at all that we will not put this item on the agenda and consider it, to see what the European Parliament thinks of BiH, what it is looking for, what it suggests, and how it assesses certain things in BiH. Given this dynamic and burdensome agenda, I'm not going to be, as I say, exclusively, here I am leaving, if not for today's session, the possibility of you voting with the conclusion that this is the first item of the agenda of the next session. I propose that it really be the first point because it has and carries one special responsibility, because such a large resolution on BiH almost never brought the European Parliament into this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21929	I thank the esteemed representative Bećirović. The next is Honorable Representative Branko.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21930	Wait a minute, Mr. Chairman. So, the complete discussion material for this point I have here prepared and here I am giving to the services.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21931	The next is the distinguished representative Branko Dokić, and let the distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21932	Mr. Chairman, we've adopted point 8. The Committee for Communications and Transport, which says the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, is asking the BHRT Management 5 Committee to submit to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly a report on BHRT's work and business in 2008, in accordance with the article, etc. So I suggest we take point 8. Today off the agenda, postpone it, if possible, for the next time, if we were to discuss this point parallelly and the report to be delivered by the Management Board. I think that would be much more comprehensive, I think that the conclusions would be more thorough, we'd have a wider chance of looking at the situation that's there, and hopefully also shortening our effort and effort to come to a better conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21933	I thank the esteemed representative Dokić. The next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković, and let the distinguished representative Husein Nanić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21934	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, ministers, colleagues, I apologize to Azra, I always think that we are equal, so when I say colleagues, I mean both men and female colleagues. So, you see, first of all, I don't know how much it's possible to take down mandatory items of the agenda, but if possible, it means that we should also respect Mr. Dokić's proposal and Mr. Bešlagić's proposal, with course looking a little strange... that we are tired of parliamentary issues, and we are not in favour of the European Parliament's Resolution. I think that we are more tired of the European Parliament resolution today and I think it is a better proposal for this second, as we have heard from Mr Bećirović, to possibly leave it for the next session, that today we have not all brought material here; secondly, I think it is a serious issue that we cannot conduct without good preparation. I answered for another reason. For today's 17 points of the agenda, I've got nine materials on the Latin and eight materials on the Cyrillic. In tongues? I haven't figured out what language they're in, which means what language they're in, but it's very interesting what kind of, in what way, or what material came to me in one or another letter. Almost all the materials that came from the Parliamentary Assembly, therefore commission reports and so on, are in a Cyrillic letter, which means that the Parliamentary Assembly takes care of legal and constitutional provisions. And almost all the materials that I received from the Council of Ministers, except for the law, are on the Latin, and even those who came from the ministries headed by the minister of the Serb people, such as the Ministry of Civil Affairs. And also, I have to say, this has been becoming a practice lately. I once warned, a few months ago on behalf of the club, that we wouldn't even be having a debate about those agenda points where we get the material the way I just said it. And we didn't respect it, I guess, for the purpose of still taking part in the debate on all these issues, but I would really ask our professional services, but also ask that our colleague directs the Council of Ministers, so first of all to the Council of Ministers, a letter asking the ministries to act in the way that 6 is defined by the regulations, so that simply all these materials are translated, meaning in three languages and written in two letters. What's most interesting is that some of the materials, I guess by the fixed pattern, in the accompanying memo, say they are delivered in three language versions. I guess that's what's common for them to copy and just change the name of the law there, and it stands -- we deliver the material to you in three language versions -- and then they deliver you in one language version and in one letter. Here, I would ask, I do not, of course, ask that this vote be heard, because this is a constitutional matter, meaning a legal matter, there is no need to vote, but I expect and demand that the College warns the Council of Ministers that it adheres to something that is required to adhere to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21935	I would like to thank Reverend Novaković. The college's gonna do it anyway. The next is the distinguished representative Husein Nanić, and let the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21936	I thank you, Chairman. And certainly, I accept the argument that the College made regarding the agenda item I proposed for today's session and we will be waiting for the Council of Ministers to respond on this point. What I'd like to initiate today is a conclusion, and this is about the next one. So, I would ask for a new agenda item to be included, which reads "A proposal for a conclusion on the development of an Activity Plan to resolve the accommodation of BiH institutions." The text of the conclusion would read: - The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH tasks the Council of Ministers to deliver, in addition to the Bill on Budget, BiH institutions and international obligations for 2009, the Programme of Action to resolve the accommodation of BiH institutions with the following explanation. Since we are at our 22nd session, meaning the House of Representatives, and the House of Peoples at the 13th session, followed the Law on the Budget of Institutions and International Obligations, and with this law both at home reached the same conclusion as: - It is up to the Council of Ministers of BiH to do the Programme of Activities to resolve the accommodation of BiH institutions in order to reduce the cost of the lease. Since the Budget Law of the BiH institutions for 2008 showed that: out of 61 budget users, 54 had the cost of'rent costs' totalling around 19 million marks, in the 2009 Budget Act draft, the amount of lease costs was increased... and amounts to around 30 million marks. Given that the Council of Ministers did not respect the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and failed to deliver this programme to date, and that one of the upcoming meetings is expected to hold a debate on the 2009 Budget Law, it is necessary to ask the Council of Ministers to comply with that conclusion and deliver the requested programme together with the Budget Law proposal, with the fact that we are seeing today the determination to take some points and take it down, given that we are working 7 days and that we will work, if it means the possibility to do so, I appreciated this today that it is necessary, given that we expect the budget to be at the next session, to enter into the procedure and this conclusion can also be declared at the next session, if it is not, I appreciate that it will not be late, I do not know, the budget has not yet entered into the procedure. If the budget were to enter the procedure, then it would be necessary for that conclusion, which is the Parliamentary Assembly, so both homes have brought and tasked the Council of Ministers to deliver. So, I was planning on putting this item on the agenda today, but given this mood, here I suggest that it be for the next session of the House to enter the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21937	I thank the esteemed representative, Nanić. The next is the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić, and let the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21938	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I thought that under item 12, but I see an updated agenda with new points, but it doesn't matter which point, I will forward this to you as an initiative for the next point, but the point is that, in accordance with Article 65 and Article 150. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly bear the initiative that today's session will not be possible because of what we have now heard and talked about, but that as soon as you, first of all from the College, with the College of the Peoples, you will schedule a special session, with one single item of the agenda entitled 'Employment and economic situation in BiH, that is, the economic recession and collapse of the banking system in many countries of the world and Europe and reflections of that situation in BiH, namely the economy and the overall economic situation in this country." In fact, I have spoken several times in this home and suggested that we show Bosnian-Herzegovic patriotism in the export of goods and see if we will survive. So that's it. Secondly, I didn't collect 10 signatures, I hope to collect all the signatures from this house, because this is in everyone's interest. But that's when I took my word, to read the explanation why I'm looking for this. So, I asked for it orally, but here I am going to file this request in writing and ask you first, to make it clear that you and your kolegij agree when you're going to do it, but that's a deadline, in my opinion, it's urgent. The situation in which BiH is located, or the entire economic and economic system, certainly does not give any optimism that this country will manage to avoid an economic recession, which, as a tide of pyramids, is collapsing, you know how it is already going, spreading to all the countries of the world. That's the best expression right now. I don't know what's funny to you, I didn't mean the pyramids in High, I meant this. Such a wave will by no means pass or bypass BiH. On the contrary, here it will feel even more than in developed countries, and I do not want to be stressed that I am not insulting anyone, various economic experts, under the supposed signs, experts always of course, to convince me that it will be much easier to overcome this difficult economic and economic crisis in the world. Because we've been in recession since the end of the war, only no one can tell the people. That's the problem. But here, I'm taking the opportunity today to say it. 8 I therefore ask the Council of Ministers, together with all other institutions, entity governments, institutes, experts, our agencies, the Chamber of Commerce, businessmen and all interested in preparing comprehensive measures to alleviate the difficult economic situation and this crisis, which is inevitable, will cause enormous damage to us in BiH. So then it won't matter to us at all, and it is important, how we get the materials, in Cyrillic and what letter, in language, etc. So, it's very important that I don't do cartoons, but this is... So, I want to warn you all that emergency and realistic measures must be sought to overcome this situation, because it is quite certain that we are entering a very difficult 2009 and with unclear intentions for the recovery of the overall economic situation. Namely, all available forces and potentials of this country must be engaged to create better conditions of engagement, with a special emphasis on agriculture and production as our largest economic resource, of course there are other branches of the economy. Also, there must be a mode of real tax and other relief for the export economy, if there are still interested in buying something from us. The issue of increasing tax rates to imports of high-tariff luxury excise goods is also inevitable. They have to tax the luxury goods and the rich privileges. I expect a quick reaction, first of all from our colleague, whom I highly respect, to take this home with the College of the People's House and to proceed to the appointment of this special session. Also, the Council of Ministers should take a co-ordinated role with entity governments and those competent institutions to prepare everything for us. To know what kind of situation we're in, and we already know how we're going to get into 2009. - It's a disaster, everyone's talking. He got scared of Japan, the third country in the world, and we keep our mouths shut. Well, we'll be fine, they'll get around us. You laugh like that, and I'll ask you if you'll agree to cut your salary 10%, whether you'll receive anything, and you laugh behind your back. Now, that's the policy we're running here, everything is a little bit more than how the people will survive. And this is, to me, the most important thing. So please, I'm asking you out of the colleges that I respect, and the colleagues that I respect all, even those who laugh, but that's right now, because I'm gonna laugh when they, God forbid, cry over this accident, and I don't want to crash, I want to improve this country. This is a solution to how to do and help ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21939	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Jovičić. The next is the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, and let the distinguished representative of Remzija Kadrić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21940	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21941	Are you done? Yes, it is. Thank you very much. Here you go, dear colleague. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21942	Thank you, Chairman. Since my colleague Jovičić was talking about economics, I'll talk about SNSD. So let me just take this opportunity to discuss the agenda, but I am using the beginning of the session to, I suppose, wish you on behalf of all of us this way to our colleague until today Snježana Rajilić much luck in future work on a new job. A colleague who shared these benches and fates with us for half the term, tried to lead the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs as best as possible, and also to give a new colleague a welcome and successful work in this team as he is here today. I apologize for misusing the agenda debate, but I didn't know where to locate this. And with regard to the debate on the agenda, let me just initiate, on the proposal of my colleague Bećirović, that, I suppose, the better the next session among the first points of the agenda, the European Parliament's Resolution. Let me just remind you that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe recently adopted, on the discussion of the monitoring report, the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and it is equally expected that we will also have recommendations, etc. The position together with the Peace Implementation Council today. And in that sense, I appreciate that it would be good to discuss these three documents as soon as possible, as soon as possible, perhaps united, even. They are quite similar, at least what I know so far from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Resolution of the European Parliament, without explaining the details. We are a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and we may also have a special and additional obligation to say that we respect the recommendations of the bodies that have adopted the Resolution and whose member we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21943	I thank the distinguished representative Hadžiahmetović. Next is Remzija Kadrić, and let the distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković be prepared. Maybe it's a mistake?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21944	I'll brief, just in order to clarify this question that you were talking about when you spoke about my request for a special session. I just want to say, so I didn't make any requests, I only suggested to you in my letter, I suggested that you take advantage of the business opportunity to use the possibility to call a special session in accordance with Article 62(3). It's one of the options, one of the options. The other option is these ten MPs. So this letter of mine is sent in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and for these reasons, I want a little clarification to be given, and by the way, to say that, in relation to this letter, our most investigative newspaper made the first comment of that letter, and then it made an explanation of my letter. It's an example of how you work professionally in the media.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21945	Thank you. 10 I understand that this is an error in the application of a respected representative of Momčilo Novaković. The next is distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21946	At the request of you as a College, co-chairs and colleagues, the Constitutional Commission held an informative session at which information was obtained and hearings were held or talks with the Minister of Justice at the BiH Council, the Minister of Security at the BiH Council on the fight against corruption and organised crime. We have made a report, with a proposal for certain conclusions, and our view is that it should say its word and this home. Maybe you're planning it, and I don't know when, and since I don't know it, here's what I'm saying here in public, and I expect it to come to one of the next sessions on the agenda, it would be very interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21947	I would like to thank the esteemed representative, Šefik Džaferović. I also have an application from the distinguished representative, Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21948	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Accepting the initiative to discuss the documents of the Council of Europe, therefore not once, but, here, in line with what MP Bećirović has proposed and just Azra, the addition of my proposal would be to invite all our members, delegates, as they are already called, to the Council of Europe and to hold a full debate on BiH's position in the Council of Europe, on our obligations, on meeting the conditions of BiH and on membership alone and so on. So, one full debate, with the participation of all the members of our delegation in the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21949	I thank the esteemed representative Dokić. No more reports. He has a respected representative, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21950	I must say, since there have been a few more discussions on this proposal, etc., it would be good for us to return. A colleague, Nanić, took one segment of it to the conclusion, here I have, a representative home where we have committed the Council of Ministers of BiH, and that deadline has expired in the sense that the Council of Ministers delivers to us within 30 days an Action Plan for the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. 11 In order not to confuse some of the conclusions that we have already made, it would be good for the Council of Ministers to remind itself of this commitment that it has to do with Parliament. And when it comes to the European Parliament's Resolution, as a proposing, I ask that this be a special point of the agenda, and not a slow need, too, that if these conclusions of the PIC are finished by then – this should be right behind it or before that, a special agenda point. There, just about the clarification.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21951	Thank you. There are no more reports now. I am concluding the debate and we are going in order as the proposings made proposals. Dear Representative Selim Bešlagić suggested that point 1. The parliamentary questions and answers are being removed from today's session. Business is a mandatory item of the agenda, but so far we've made an exception on several occasions, so we can choose to stay on the agenda, which is businessly correct, we don't have to ask questions, we don't have to consume. So it's a mandatory agenda point. Dear MP Bećirović sent a second proposal and he sent an alternative proposal. So today or, eventually, for the next session. And as there have been, in addition to further discussions, other colleagues of the proposal that this point be fully prepared for the next session, I suggest that we do not declare ourselves on today's agenda, and that we put it on the agenda of the next session. Dear Representative Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21952	Just to be exact. Since you've been formulating for the next session, but to fully settle it! I just want to remind you, so the point I suggested is fully arranged, and not slow to add another point to this subject, to be exact.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21953	You understand perfectly, so if there is nothing else, there will be this resolution that you have proposed. So... there's going to be a resolution. If this is what this is, meaning other materials, I think there's a reason to have a full discussion about it. Can I understand that you're okay with that? Yes, it is. Thank you. The next is the proposal by distinguished representative Branko Dokić to remove point 8. It is also a mandatory item of the agenda. The next proposal is the conclusion of the distinguished representative Husein Nanić to be included in today's session. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21954	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21955	Same for the next session. Thank you. The initiative of a respected representative, Jovičić, will be processed in the College. Proposed representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, also for the next session. A reminder of the distinguished representative Džaferović, also... of the hearings he held, also the next session. The initiative of the honourable representative Dokić to invite our envoys to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to take note at a session to discuss these resolutions and will be done so when it is on the agenda. And I don't think we have any more proposals for today's agenda, or we can find out that we don't have a change of agenda, so I'm saying that the 40th session of the House of Representatives has the following 1. Agents' questions and answers; 2. The request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Insurance of Deposits in Banks of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the haste procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 3. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax pursuant to an hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure; 4. Request by agent Bajazit Jašarević to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 5. Proposal for a law on animal protection and welfare (first reading); 6. Declaration by the House on setting a new deadline for submitting a report or suspending the legislative procedure under the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Development of the Information Society of BiH; 7. Declaration by the House on the setting of deadlines or on the suspension of the legislative procedure under the Proposal for a Law on fiscal cash registers – legislator Jozo Križanović; 8. The financial statements of RTVBiH on 31.12.2007, with the opinion of the authorised auditor of the firm; 9. Information on the state of property delicacies in BiH, with an emphasis on the criminal act of estrangement of the vehicle in 2006 and 2007 and in the first six months of 2008; 13 10. Proposal for conclusions on the occasion of information on criminal acts against life and the body, with emphasis on domestic violence for 2006 and 2007, and trends in the first three months of 2008; 11. The current security situation in BiH, with a special focus on terrorism (in the light of the conclusion of the 39th session of the House – on the proposal of the SNSD Representatives Club and the SDPBiH Representatives Club); 12. Analysis of the situation in the CIPS project, with specific reference to the issue of false documents; 13. Report by the Joint Committee on the Consensus of the Proposal for the appointment of the Ombudsman in the Ombudsman's Institution for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 14. Report of the Joint Committee on Harmonisation of the Proposal for appointment of the Vice Chief Auditor; 15. Selection of members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance (Rang-list of the Council of Ministers); 16. Request of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House to give powers to determine the consolidated text of the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH; 17. Grants of approval for ratification (a) the Agreement on credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Bank of Austria, the Fojnica-Kiseljak Water Construction Project and the Lepenica-Kiseljak sewerage collector, (b) the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on reciprocal improvement and protection of investments, (c) the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation of BiH and the European Investment Bank, the Water and sewerage Project in the Federation of BiH, d) the European Agreement on the submission of applications for legal assistance. We're moving to the first item of the Ad agenda. 1. Agents' questions and answers
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21958	Mr. Chairman, I have no comment on the answered question, but I have a question why didn't I get the answers to the questions asked? One of them is at the same session when this question is on which... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? But these are not additional questions, but in line with the answers. There is no answer to one question I asked more than two months ago, it was addressed to the Council of Ministers. Please update.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21960	We'll update, we'll look. Dear Representative Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21961	I have one parliamentary question. The BiH Council of Ministers has been directed to the minister of civil affairs. - What is the position of the Council of Ministers and Resolute Ministry against the archaeological discovery of the Bosnian Pyramid of the Sun in High? Is there any official opinion on the archaeological discovery of the institutions of government, scientific institutions in BiH? Are the institutions of government, scientific institutions in any way currently or so far involved in the debate on the scientific valorisation of this discovery? Isn't that an unwarranted and marginalized question, so it's the impression that others care more that there's something there, but that in BiH that would mean far more to us? There are certainly few citizens of BiH who have been through... just over three years in one way or another have not heard of the high and local archaeological discovery or, at the very least, a riddle called the 'Bosnian Pyramid of the Sun' and their inventor Semir Osmanagić. I dare say there are few citizens of the civilized world who have not shown any interest in it. Just over two years ago, I was in America and Canada for a month, and I became convinced that more than 90% of the Amerikanac and Kanađanin, with whom I spoke, were the first associations of BiH pyramids, Semir Osmanagić and High. I was truly happy as a man at the time that BiH, after a war tragedy, won a world brand by which it would be promoted and famous in the world. 15 We are witnesses, unfortunately, of a vague situation, and of inappropriate heifers of Semir Osmanagić and his archaeological discovery in which those who know something and those who have no idea about it, and all in order for the pyramids to be depicted as the apparition and deception of Semir Osmanagić. Personally, I've been there a few times and after a tour, like most of those who go around the site, I can say that there's something out there that I don't know about. It is strange that so far, BiH institutions have not responded properly, with the goal of unwinding an enigma of high pyramids under the auspices of the state institutions in the direction of support for the project or disseminating deception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21962	Thank you. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21963	I've been given up. But since Rifat Dolić opened it, I will be very brief, there will be no SDP, you do not need to worry, colleagues. First question: - When will the Council of Ministers elect or appoint a director of the BiH Directorate for European Integration, since the current director is appointed as BiH Ambassador to Brussels? And foreign minister: - When will the appointed BiH ambassador enter the EU? We all swear on European integration, there is no alternative declaratively, and we do nothing in action. Now we need more than ever to have as many people in Brussels as possible. And the second question is very current these days for the BiH Ministry of Security: - by which regulation and by whom all have the right to personal protection and do these persons have the right to increased additional protection after media speculation about their alleged threat and how much does it cost this country? We have been witnessing lately that some politicians are serving everything and everything, politicizing, speculating, just to get public attention. However, their satisfaction costs the country and the taxpayers of BiH. We are witnessing back a few days that it appeared in the media information that, by God, a prominent businessman from Gorazd, owner of Bekto, should pay a million marks, to God, that, allegedly, an assassination would be carried out again on, to God, two of some politicians who consider themselves to be, of course, some great politicians. In my opinion, this is a classic consoling method, invented, invented by that "invention of the enemy," to draw attention to itself. Behind this, they have very political goals. I'm not a lawyer for Bekto company, I don't even know the man, but I found out that this man is a great businessman, a great humanist, an honest man, a job, the biggest exporter and Gorazde is the only municipality in BiH that has a surplus. That's what my colleague Lijanović knows. If all the municipalities were like Gorazde, we wouldn't know the end. I'd like to ask the Department of Security to run some background checks on these allegations. I've talked about this here once: there are politicians, always the same politicians, who write themselves anonymous 16 threatening letters to get extra security. That's true, that's true. It's people who are sick, complex people, but it's all paid. I was the chairman of the UN-San Forest Supervisory Board when I replaced the former director who was an alpha and omega, supported by all the SDA suites and the Party for BiH and all the generals, even, throughout Bihać were my death certificates: coming a special killer from Zagreb. The EU is coming to me if you need protection. No, I wouldn't want to live if I was afraid of people like that. And we people make things up over there. I'm also a witness when they come to Bihac these same politicians, it's blocking the city for three hours, blocking life, no one's doing anything. Do they think they're interesting? If they didn't have those escorts, security, no one would know them on the street. And that's what it all costs. And I want to tell those who send them this extra escort to question those allegations because people who work with these politicians told me: they write to themselves! That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21964	Thank you. The next is Remzija Kadrić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21965	I will briefly ask one question to the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH, which reads: - What is the national composition and composition of national minorities in the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, and, if there are unequal representations, what is planned to do to eliminate it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21966	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21967	I have spoken several times in the last two years about the fact that it is not good that this parliament is still unable to adopt the text of the BiH anthem. But MPs can't give the state, so to speak, an anthem text, but it doesn't bother them walking around the world on behalf of this country. Since I have data until 1 December 2007, I ask the question for the period from 1 December 2007 to 1 December 2008. I am asked to answer exactly: which MPs, where, how much did they cost the state and in what terms on behalf of the BiH state, the different bodies and this Parliament have visited different countries in the world so far? Here, I ask the question of the College, and I believe that the College, through professional services, can answer that question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21968	Thank you. 17 The next is the distinguished representative Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21969	I also have a very short question that will be related and will be a complete report for this home, which is that the Home leadership also delivers: which MPs were invited and which MPs were allowed by the College to make certain official absences for the purpose of carrying out their representation functions in certain bodies of the House without wanting or explicitly refusing to do so. Because only in that situation will we actually have one complete piece of information. Because like this, I'm not wasting my time right now. I think you understand me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21970	I thank you, too. I don't have any more logs. I conclude, I conclude, I was already afraid that the honourable representative Džaferović wanted to ask a question. Thank you, Your Honor. We're closing the first item of the agenda. Moving to the second item of the agenda: Ad. 2. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Insurance of Deposits in Banks of BiH by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure On 5 November 2008, the Council of Ministers submitted to the procedure the Proposal for a Law with an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate on a request for an emergency procedure. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to point three, Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax under the hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21981	So, I owe my colleague Kalabić thanks for asking that this item be made of the agenda and this report, because Bosnia is, therefore, constantly under some light, under some stalemate that some dangerous terrorism is being threatened and that some white alkaids, some organised international terrorism, are being created and called, etc. Well, I pay attention to colleagues on the 13th page who are talking about the crimes of terrorism and terrorist acts in BiH, where they say, "In the past nine months, no crime has been committed that can be classified as international terrorism." Well, the alleged white alkaid is further said: "During domestic and foreign media, information from some alleged experts on terrorism on the recruitment of white Muslims to BiH to carry out terrorist attacks on its soil and on Europe. The OSA has not obtained any information to confirm the above mentioned information.' Also, in the third paragraph: 'The Agency does not have any concrete data to indicate the possibility of some newly formed humanitarian organisations in BiH that abuse their actions... in a way that they have transformed and continued to act in another form, under another name.' Because this was also about story and writing. And finally, with regard to individuals who were under the glass, it is said:'specific data on the activities of individual persons of foreign origin in BiH for the time being do not indicate a more concrete link between those persons and international terrorism.' 22 And finally, with regard to internal terrorism, therefore not to international but to internal terrorism, on page 14, he says: "The Agency's data collected in the previous period, concerning the possible action of internal terrorism or acts of violence against individual national, religious and other groups, show that no act has recently been committed in BiH that could be explicitly marked on its elements as terrorist in this time." Well, I'm glad we're clear to terrorism, internally, externally, that all stories were empty. We have this act that happened in FIS, but these seem to be, as the Information goes on, more likely to be about ordinary crime, racketeering, because people are previously known as bound to these criminal circles. Thank you, cheers.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21982	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić, and let the distinguished representative Jozo Križanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21983	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, we have received, truth, the Information of this but of course that the Prosecutor's Office has been authorised to give a dimension of what kind it was. But regardless of them, I will call it as an MP 'every single piece that is directed against the life of any man', it is a terrorist act for me, if it is specifically designed, because, here is Mr. Izetbegović now said this in the Knight. Whoever tried it there or those individuals didn't count on killing one man, 50 people, taking down a building, I don't know what to do. So it's hard about it. But I always plead that security is the dominant theme of all BiH citizens, that people do not fear whether they will send their child to school or to trade. And when they're safe, they'll put up with that or a little less, but no one will stand for fear or paranoia and not show up somewhere in a public place. We are witnessing various events, killings by cafes, planting explosives under cars, and, of course, not listing all the works that the police can't get from the police, because the police are not even competent to determine and give qualifications to a particular piece... But it is that all of our agencies, and I will give you an example, we were now on a tour of the field office of the Intelligence and Security Agency in Brcko, which covers a large area, where I may not have been right but I did not order but asked that an individual or group who dropped the bomb on the returner of the Hrvat be discovered as soon as possible, even if they are Srbin, I will be even more rigorous, because they must not be on behalf of my people and the RS on behalf of the Serbian people. This is hypothetical, I don't know who did it, but I'm asking them to find out, all the agencies. So people aren't afraid to go back to their hearths. That, in my opinion, is more dominant than this animal protection law. We need animals, too, but first we have to protect people. We put everything in priority, and we forget ourselves. 23 So, it is unserious to make any reports when it is known that in BiH, not giving qualifications or whether they are members of this or that cell, the terrorist organisation, whether there are any of these cells, whether it is not my job anymore, it may have once been, but it is precisely these agencies that we have established, which we are asking for, and now I will give you another example, which is very important, I am proud to have attended the only one in front of Parliament at a 12-day seminar in Ilidji where they were representatives of all security agencies. There was a terrible help from the OSCE, and it is important for me to warn many events, not to treat the consequences, because fear, in the cafe that happened, is murder. Someone's going to say out of thin air or, I don't know, this one or the one on someone, but imagine you in FIS panicking about how many people could have died running away from bullets. So, we can't hypothetically think about what would happen, but we have a closed case, so whatever the D.A. calls it, I'll take it, but that they're doing something about it. And if it wasn't sad, it would be funny, maybe this will be a specific country or I'm specific about what I'm giving, and a new category is being introduced, and here's the laugh of my first colleague Lazar who's always laughing, and happiness is gone, it's good – love terrorism! Love, love terrorism! Do you follow the media? Left by a woman, a man took the salt, burned down around the house, I don't know if he had five children or a man or a woman, so it took him a little bit so he took an automatic rifle and came to document them. Isn't that a terrorist act? I don't care what the D.A. says or doesn't. Love terrorism, unfortunate, the worst kind. Someone left him, he came to tear down the house, kill the whole family! Isn't that terrorism the worst kind? So I'm asking you, any information that comes from our ministry, they're mostly late, because there's no communication, so I made a statement in some newspaper, and I see that the ministry and the minister have denied it, he's shown some picture from some seminar, and I'm going to say it right now. On the US election night, Federal Police Director Zlatko Miletić tells me here that he has never been called by the security minister and the director of the RS Police for an agreement. Maybe he doesn't have the authority to order something but to ask: "People, what are you doing in your police?" because security is important to us through them. So the total in this segment or the most important state of society, the peoples, BiH, the nation, whatever you want to call it, is one of the most important things to be able to go further into reforms. And we'll always get statistics. And this is no illusion on our colleague who is not present today, who says in the media and makes a joke out of Parliament. We have a car estrangement at the next session in 2007. We have this today, we have this report about cars but this is crucial – to protect the people from being safe. Don't cultivate the illusion that the one there, I repeat, and that's... the example that he did in FIS, I don't know who he is, the court let him show, I'm not an investigative organ, but people, he didn't think whether he was going to kill a security guard or 50 people. What do you think panics that, God Bog, he killed five people, 10, 50? How many people get together there? So I'm asking all our agencies, all our security structures that maximum in this situation, and I'm warning you because of the difficult economic situation, remember today what I told you, 19th, for expecting a lot of major riots, mass riots, union protests, there will be dozens or thousands of people out of work. Who, then, is safe, for life, if his children don't have the guts to eat? That's why I just suggested that point. These are two key things: will we survive and will we be safe?- I'm sorry. Let me have the animal law, and I don't know what it's going to be, and he's going to come in line, but he's got priority over priorities. 24 Therefore, gentlemen, I pray you as my colleagues, that I may be safe with you, that I may go everywhere, that you may be with me, that I may make you safe. And that's why I insisted, I repeat, as a Srbin, that this act of bombing in Derventa be discovered as soon as possible. And, if he threw a Srbin, today, at the last session, we adopted amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, I immediately submit amendments - terrorist acts for 40 years, drug dealing for 40 years, trafficking in white slaves and weapons for 40 years! What are we afraid of? Who are we protecting? Are we gonna let the mob beat the state? We'd better not be here. Are we going to let criminals rule, not the city, but the local community? Then when we let them go, they'll take the city, and then they'll take the canton, the entity, the state! We can't let that happen. Don't mind me, I always speak temperamentally. I'm not mad at anyone but I'm warning you as my colleagues, really, who I respect and not a demagogy. Two key things for this country are how to survive and how to be safe! It's all gonna be a turn. Come on, why don't we have five days in a row of Parliament, when we have a bunch of problems, to solve everything? So we have, what the people would say, the seasonal session, the fall, here's 20 days we're not leaving Parliament, but let's sort it out. That's why I won't be happy with any report. He is good, he is statistical, but he doesn't reflect the condition of that man who now fears a city, a place, I don't want to scare people. Happiness has no television, otherwise this would have caused enough panic in the people as if tomorrow was a war. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We are here to create for our people conditions to free him from fear, a man in fear is willing to do anything. That's a lot. So please, no report will help us if we here in Parliament, the highest legislative body, don't get serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21984	Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21985	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21986	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21987	So, first of all, I want to say that there were a lot of reasons when this House of Representatives asked to discuss the state of security in BiH. I think we unanimously accepted this and asked that instead of these segmentary references to the security elements that we had, here as previous points, discuss the security situation in BiH as a whole. So now, you see, for one such important topic we get the information that was delivered yesterday, 18, today is 19. And about a little less important, let me say, and complex information we've given our respective committees the opportunity to discuss content and to give a lot more time to MPs to consider content information. I will also be so that even from this home, perhaps, today, a definitive debate on this and to refer this to the Commission for Defence and Security, as our competent commission. However, 25 since my proposals are rarely respected, I will still take advantage of the opportunity to say a few words about this information. You see, when you look at it, it's made with a look at about eight segments of security. And when you look at how it's done, you can't make a grudge. There are many numbers, percentages, trends, etc. But what we, as representatives, have criticised for this information, considering previous information on the state of security, is that there is one complete analysis and assessment of the situation by priority, by weight, by what makes the security of the citizens of this country. After all, we also have a security policy that has not been mentioned anywhere in this document, which would be the obligation of all security authorities to work on the basis of some document, a state document. There's one important thing for me. When you add up all eight of these elements as many people as are in conflict with this country's law, you get the information that almost every 100 citizens are in some conflict with the law. Now, in a way, it's a small replica of my colleague Izetbegović. We can't get out of this material to say what's good for us. I love what's good, but this kind of eclatanic data suggests a very sick condition and a condition that requires our serious consideration of this. The final provisions, i.e. the proposals for measures and actions, state, among other things, that criminal policy needs to be tightened in areas where negative trends continue. I'm missing one general reference to criminal policy in this matter at all. There is still much missing, but if there is no mood today for a more thorough debate, I would ultimately suggest that if this were to be a definitive debate today, we would adopt a working conclusion in which we would give full support to work and encourage all security and judicial authorities to develop full cooperation and strengthen activities in accordance with the laws in the fight against all forms of crime, especially on the issues of terrorism, war crimes and organised crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21988	I ask you to submit this proposal in writing when we declare ourselves. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21989	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21990	It can be a replica or small or large, but it can be.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21991	... Because you keep mortgaged on some kind of terrorism. [[drawn away from the microphone and nothing is heard]] I wanted to accentuate, potentiate that thing – it's not in one segment. And as for the fact that 1% of BiH citizens are in conflict with the law? Well, these are some, unfortunately, averages in America that number some 200 million people, 2 million people are in jail, not only have problems with the law, but they're in detention. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21992	Ambassador Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21993	Given that the agenda item bears the name 'The current security situation in BiH, with a special focus on terrorism', means that we can also discuss the overall security situation, as well as this view of terrorism. When it comes to this information, I have to say that this is one solid or, to put it that way, good information about a very bad situation in the country. And if you see what's in this information itself, then neither the official government's representatives have escaped any concrete assessments. The first assessment in this information is that the current state of security in the BiH area characterizes an increase in the number of crimes of general crime, as well as an increase in the persons against whom official reports have been filed. This fact itself is worrying. Furthermore, this information also shows that available indicators show that there was an increase in the number of crimes of general crime in 2008 compared to the previous period, which is also not good information at all, so here statistics indicate that the 26,281 crime of general crime has been recorded, which is almost 7% more than nine months in 2007. So this data also speaks of an increase in crime in the country. The total number of crimes caused by the general threat in BiH is also on the rise. This information further states that the number of public order and peace violations is also on the rise. In fact, according to this information, the state of public order and peace is still unfavourable. And that's just some of the information that's standing here in this document that we've received and which, perhaps, in a milder way, shows the situation than it really is in the country right now. However, I would specifically refer to the 'Proposed Action and Action'. I think that these five general formulations do not correspond at all to the current state in the country, especially from the point of view that measures should be taken both by this Parliament and by the Council of Ministers and by all authorities in the country when this issue is on the agenda. Therefore, I would try, at least as far as possible, to correct these conclusions, so that conclusion number 1 on improving the implementation of strategic documents and action plans would be addressed: - Yes, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives would task the Council of Ministers to deliver within 30 days 'A plan to improve the implementation of strategic documents and action plans to combat certain forms of organised crime'. In point 4. The proposal for measures and actions says that criminal policy needs to be tightened in areas where negative trends continue. Here I propose: to task the Council of Ministers to specify within 30 days the realization of this point 4. In addition to these five conclusions, I propose the sixth conclusion, which is: today we make one conclusion where we will commit ourselves as the Parliamentary House of the 27th Assembly of BiH in the next 30 days to the special thematic session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH's current security situation in the country. I don't think it's possible to go over this agenda point like this and that someone in this country has to take responsibility for this. We haven't heard today, we've heard, we've heard and we see in this information what's going on, but apparently no one here has said in measures or in discussions who is responsible for this situation or really no one in this country is responsible for anything. We must ask the question of what the authorities have done and they must tell us precisely what they have done to prevent such a situation as it is in the country. Look, things don't happen here that are harmless and you see in broad daylight, during this year, the Sarajevo International Airport is being robbed. Every month a report from some part of BiH – robbed bank! This Vukelić was raised, is it so, in Banja Luka, that Milovanović escaped, here the entire public of BiH was shocked by the publication of these talks between Šaja and Gaši. How much do we here in the BiH Parliament contribute to this situation as it is? Is it good to make statements that you're shocked only by the female part of the family, or is that what journalists get out of it? All of this should be analysed to see, indeed, where we are, what we are going to do and, firstly, whether we here in Parliament have strength, moral credibility, and courage, when we talk about these topics, to catch up on the corner. We have been elected here for the sake of BiH citizens to try to solve some things, not put under the rug, and especially not hard-core criminals in this country in any way to justify it. I'm going to write the conclusions right now and deliver them to a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21994	I don't see anyone applying any further. Mr. Križanović, you were just discussing, what is it now?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21995	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21996	I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21997	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21998	A replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u21999	Actually, I don't want to be rude and replicate, but what my colleague Izetbegović said is, the information is called 'The current security situation in BiH, with a special focus on terrorism'. But you see, I was talking about this information containing eight segments of which is one segment of this terrorism. And of the 15 pages of the text, the two pages refer to 28 terrorism. So is this information not done properly or should we consider everything that is in that information and give qualifications to all of what is said here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22000	Thank you. Please submit this proposal to the conclusions. Is there anyone else to discuss? Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22001	By listening to individual discussions, perhaps you could create a false image of this whole situation that we're talking about. But I want to put an accent on some things that shed a different light on this information and in whose, in some ways, content I'm beginning to doubt. There was a speech just now, and it's a known fact, let's say in BiH that the security minister and the police director never met. How do they get to this, I'm interested in how they get to this data? Probably on the basis of faxes, letters or, I don't know what either, so there's no kind of analysis, coordination and what I can do at meetings like that. Third, recently, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Nikola Špirić, as far as I know, called on the heads of staff and publicly announced that he had been disfellowshipped, in a way, from that kind of notification and that he had no information. If there are no meetings, if the chairman of the Council of Ministers has no information, who will convince me that everything that happens in this country is put into this paper. We bypassed the chairman, we bypassed some others, but here we were zealous to the MPs in Parliament, and we gave them everything, and here it all says that everything is still still. Well, it won't be like that! We often have agenda points in which we respond to international community and international organisations' views and we literally interpret it as parrots that the Council of Europe has recommended this and that this must be fulfilled, that the Venice Commission has recommended this and that this must be fulfilled and that this is unquestionable and that such attitudes are not disproved. And neither have I found here nor have anyone bothered to take the views of certain international institutions that we have spoken about in the past sessions, of which we have received documents, which for certain reasons accuse BiH of terrorist activities – we have not found the denials of such a type or analysis whether and on what basis they are saying, what is the reason, whether their lack of guidance, whether the fact that the CIA and the FBI do not know what is going on in BiH and are giving a flat rate from some, I don't know, in the middle, from some summer resort, is that they say a few sentences that distract us or so also some other organisations. Given the way you work at the Ministry of Security and everything that's been going on over the past few months, I'm not sure that this information is credible and that it reflects what we've been looking for here. And I'm not sure that this information said, especially when it comes to terrorism, everything we're interested in. I'd like time to deny me, and it'll be the best and the least will be the problem if I'm wrong, that, that won't even be noticed, but if something comes up and pops up somewhere, we'll be wondering where it is in these documents we've been looking for. But for me, it is indicative that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is bypassed by information and that, therefore, there are some centres of power which, I'm not sure that they are so... towards Parliament and to say, here, only to them will we be correct and we will tell them everything, and the rest will not. Thank you. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22002	I thank the esteemed representative Kalabić. The following has been reported by Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22003	Mr. Chairman, first of all, one difficult circumstance. But well, maybe it's because of the speed we were looking for, but I still don't think we thought it would work out like this. Yesterday's date for making this information, today we get to the meeting of the Assembly, it was hard to see how many pages there are, 17 pages to read and analyze this well based on everything discussed in the previous session and on everything that is happening in BiH today. But here we have tried to extract something from this information that is currently falling behind our eye, and it is probably something that is perhaps important that at this session today and at this point in the agenda it can be discussed and suggested as a promotion of the security situation in BiH. Here, in this accompanying act itself, I will just read you a second point, he says: 'We note that the information for a short period of time has not been considered at the BiH Ministry of Security College, nor a session of the Council of Ministers, as the request for the entry of this item on the agenda of the 40th session of the House of Representatives was sent from the 39th session held on 5.11.' Now, watch out, so it hasn't been considered either at the Ministry's College, they have an excuse, it hasn't even been discussed at the Council of Ministers, it has an excuse. He wasn't signed by the minister, he was signed by someone else, so he has an excuse. If it happens, and I doubt that it's likely to happen that the time ahead will, unfortunately, not show that some things are the way they are in this information. That's why, perhaps, it's in this state and there's information behind which no one will even stop tomorrow, they'll say -- well, look, we haven't even considered the College, we haven't even considered the Council of Ministers, I haven't signed it as a minister, maybe, whether I've given authority or not to someone else, etc. And that's how this information came to you, gentlemen of Parliament, who should talk seriously about this issue. Furthermore, on page 15, something that, in my opinion, opens up one suspicion that this can be done, means that it can also be done conductingly, or that it can be dosed with a safety condition. Here, I'll read you just one piece. He says: 'The latest or more recent knowledge indicates within this and other associations' (speaks above in the text that I am not reading to you, there is an agreement, means there is an agreement) 'that no protest activities are taken in the context of the accommodation and stay of Abu Hamza at the Immigrant Centre of Foreign Affairs, so as not to make it difficult for the BiH authorities to deportation.' So please be nice! Who's he rooting for here? Is it necessary here to root for BiH's security and legality, or can it be concluded from this that some agreements can irritate competent state institutions and make it difficult or easier for someone? I think this is really something that is unserious in this information and that can be drawn from the conclusion that indeed our security in BiH can be dosed, or that it can be handled. Here, if I want to make a problem right now, as if I were to put pressure on the BiH authorities, it's enough to bring a certain group of people before a certain institution – I'm not talking about this case specifically, but I'm talking about the case of anyone – and then I'm going to shake 30 BiH authorities to the point that they're going to rule at mass, so they're going to act the way it is mass. Their task and their job is to work according to the law, whether or not BiH citizens protested, by considering whether the protest is justified and not taking certain actions towards the protest, if justified, etc. If it's not a legitimate protest, it's a denial of something like that. Therefore, I think that this information, as far as it could have been read in this short time, may be inconclusive for the kind of crash that we had at the last session, where after all those discussions we wanted to see if this was really a safe situation in BiH as it is represented in the means of information, in talks through institutions, then between citizens, etc. And then this proposal for action and action is in this kind of information that should be concrete and which is not, let me say, political -- is general. What does it mean to "improve the implementation of strategic documents and action plan" so I don't read anymore? It means "improvement" to you is just to say something and to conclude something without doing anything. 'Improving the co-operation of the prosecution and the agency? ' Well, I don't care about that, and I know it needs to be improved, I'm interested in how to improve, and who's to blame for not being promoted and what's not better? "Improving co-operation between law enforcement agencies and sharing information in criminal acts" etc. And what do you want to improve? 'Where it is not legally provided for that co-operation to exist, then bring legal legislation and regulate legally.' 'Strengthen criminal', we only know in every piece of information to say one thing that I'm not sure is correct'strengthen criminal policy in the area where negative trends continue.' So I asked and asked someone last time, and especially these lawyers and those of the judiciary to once answer me, "Is our criminal policy really mild or harsh?" I'm not sure if it's a treasure, or maybe it's too sharp. And here the flat-rate opinion that it should be sharpened, right, until an analysis is carried out and until it is seen whether the same punishment in BiH is the same in both Russia and the United States and Sweden, and if it is here somewhere, then we don't have to keep saying, that we use and that we say we should constantly sharpen and sharpen and sharpen. It's as if someone would be intimidated by the criminal provisions of the Penal Code, threatened with a prison sentence for an act, and that's why he's going to give up. No one is going to give up a small percentage of those who commit crimes just because the punishment for the crime has been threatened for 8 years. They need other measures to prevent what they would do. And "to speed up the strategy to solve the issue of... war crimes" etc. That, I think, in general and they should have been more specific. I'm not prepared to give the conclusions now more concrete because if I had at least got this material or switches yesterday, I'd probably have some conclusions. But here, I didn't want to tell anyone in my presentation that he didn't do well, but given the shortness of this time and everything that was written in the accompanying act and what can be seen that this information, I think, isn't exactly what it should be and what we expected it to be. And I'm afraid there won't be any information that will show the real time that's ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22004	I thank the esteemed representative of Okolić. The next one was announced by Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22005	Here, I'll try not to repeat myself, or not to repeat the findings of some colleagues here I've heard. Yes, it is very difficult for me today that we are discussing information with this name that has not been discussed by the Council of Ministers. And not only this but also the following information, we have also, meaning the Council of Ministers has not discussed at all. It's very interesting how quickly we got this information, and some of us have been waiting for months with the same or similar problems. In this regard, I suggested a conclusion requesting that the information in question be returned to the Ministry of Security for its consideration at the Council of Ministers. After that, the information will be discussed at the House session. You see, this kind of reviewing the information would be like we're considering the law without going through a commission phase, just because we have to finish it quickly, so we're going to skip a certain procedure. No ministry, at least according to the Council of Ministers Act, means it cannot provide such information on its own, so it must deliver them first to the Council of Ministers, then we are considering the information of the Council of Ministers or the views of the Council of Ministers on the information of a minister, which is practically the Council of Ministers accepts that information and directs it to the House session. After that, when I have clear views of the Council of Ministers, then I will go deeper into the debate on this analysis. But please, it is true, some people here have already said, extremely irresponsible of the minister to write in a few information that it is 'necessarily necessary to tighten the criminal policy'. If this were to be discussed at the Council of Ministers, then I suppose he could say to the minister of justice: 'Give me a law on amendments and additions to the BiH Criminal Law that will strengthen this policy!' It would, it's expected of this minister here. You know, this is an analysis of analysts, not a minister. This analysis could be written by someone who works, so we say, on the way to this question. Therefore, the minister is expected to ask the Council of Ministers to raise the issue of amending and supplementing the Penal Code that will be tightened, not to conclude that it needs to be tightened and that no one is dealing with it anymore. So, I think the information should be returned that the Council of Ministers adopted it and then discussed here at the House. Then we can, I mean, with more responsibility we can discuss this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22006	I would like to thank Reverend Novaković. I don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda: 32 Ad. 12. Analysis of the situation in the CIPS project, with specific reference to the issuing of false documents And this point was proposed at the last session. After the debate, it was concluded that it was on the agenda of this session. On our request from the Council of Ministers, i.e. The Department of Civil Affairs received material on the 13th of 11th and was immediately forwarded to you. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22008	Dear Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, I must tell you that I have read the answer to the MP's question about the CIPS, that I like the answer, but that in fact we have not received an answer to the question of illegal issues, I would say, the CIPS ID, as it was set. For these reasons, information about what needs to be done in the CIPS and how it should be done in order to meet biometric passports and everything else I accept as such but I believe that the question asked about obtaining, I would say, CIPS documents, illegal acquisition - we did not get an answer. I accept this information from the point of view, let's say, CIPS organizations, but I don't accept it from the point of view of answering the question of the illegality of issuing documents.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22009	I thank the esteemed representative Bešlagić. The next is distinguished representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22010	Well, here's what my colleague Bešlagić said about what I was going to say. So, this material was done by the Ministry that we got yesterday, so there was no man who could even tap into it thoroughly. I was only able to read it once, I couldn't analyze it. But what can be said in general: to protect the CIPS Project from one mass, obviously, abuse. I'm not saying at all that this ministry or agency is wrong, but that we have this phenomenon is quite clear. Last time I highlighted the case that happened in Doboj, this attacker likely on Pukanić, whether, Milovanović, Milanović, how could have escaped in Doboj, so since it happened in Doboj in RS, then some RS colleagues felt called to defend the RS now. Here, now I'm going to say that it happened two or three days ago in Sarajevo, let's call a witness about this Gašijev case, here's an Albanac who found five types of documents in three different Bosniak names, as far as I could see. I mean, be careful what kind of stuff they do? Passport, ID, driver's license in three different names! Obviously something's wrong, somewhere, somewhere we have big holes that they're going through and now what to do to stop that thing. Here, we can all think about it. I'm saying, I couldn't get deep enough, nor am I an expert in these things. I'll try, here with some colleagues who understand better, a few conclusions to suggest. And please, you know that better than anyone, think about how to protect your system where you put your efforts, which 33 you build, what to do and what to do and close those holes that are visible and which are obviously many. So, the SDA will try to offer conclusions. Among them will be the conclusions on the need to respect the legal obligation of the staff employed under the law and the census, i.e. according to the '91 census. A year. And we're going to ask that the deputy director be finally appointed, because it's been a six-month deadline, that thing already, I think, for a year to stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22011	I thank the esteemed representative Izetbegović. Dear Minister of Civil Affairs, Mr. Sredoje Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22012	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, I shall say very briefly. I am very sorry that the issue of a false identity in BiH is being brought into contact with the CIPS project. It's completely two separate things, two separate projects, and let's not mix that up. BiH has invested too much knowledge and expertise and money to reach the CIPS Project which today, for who knows which time, I repeat, is absolutely safe – the CIPS Project. And that means making and transferring data made by this institution. What I'm asking you all, here I hope there's almost very few parties here that don't have their own commissioners in municipalities, let's go together, and that's the only way we're going to start a strong initiative for the municipal authorities of the administration to respect our position as the Council of Ministers to e-office the parent books and parent offices and thus avoid the key problem that arises in false identification documents, in the false identification of individuals. It's a key problem. The mother offices are a key problem with us. That's why we suggested resolving these issues. At the Council of Ministers, we've already considered it three times, and so that's all you have in mind, this problem, we've analyzed where the key problems are. But I must say, it's almost impossible to force the municipal authorities of the administration to carry out inspection. How do you force it? That's what we, you sitting here, let's talk all of our powers, politically, to influence the mayor of the municipalities that they force the municipal authorities to do frequent inspections in the home offices. I'm afraid we'll find terrible things. Without that, we're not gonna work this out. We couldn't orderly as the Council of Ministers to say that it had to, we sent a recommendation that all, so all the authorities of the BiH administration go to electronics, so to speak, the parent offices, the parent books and we said it would be at the latest by the end of next year. As long as we don't finish this, we'll have a big problem, and this is how it's gonna come to us every time we get officers in the internal affairs bodies who receive the necessary documents indiscriminately, uncritically, and offer to produce certain documents. So imagine, here's a concrete last case. How is it possible to promote one of the officials who accepts the documents, where is the address – the BiH Presidency? How is that possible, I'm really just wondering? Either it's intentional or it's so sloppy, I don't think it's this other, I think we seriously need to deal with this issue. 34 So, not to burden you with all this, it is my simple goal, not my goal, but the Council of Ministers for the CIPS Project: to preserve the authority of the CIPS in that domain, because until today in BiH, no ID card, no passport, no driver's license has been falsified, none. But a number of false identification data have been entered for certain persons, and that is what is the problem in BiH. So we have to work together. I accept completely that we are prepared at the Ministry of Civil Affairs within the limits of opportunity, so as not to say the inability to do so. I've called all the interior ministers in BiH for tomorrow, although I must say, there are times when the question of which is ingenuity arises. I'm not a interior or security minister, but it's clearly a problem at this point that it has to be solved. And I want to definitely tell them that they need to get serious, the interior departments need to know they're responsible for issuing such documents. And I can't pay taxes to all BiH citizens, we can't go abroad and that's where they give us all the lessons that we issue any kind of documents. So here's what I'm going to do tomorrow is at least give me a chance and my associate director of the CIPS where we're going to analyze the issue and try to, conditionally speaking, agree to the Ministers of the Interior, because that's their job. If they were to control their employees working on receiving documents, it would be a different story. If we solved the parent offices, it would be a completely different, new story. I firmly believe that we will end it, no matter what, we eventually have to. I assure you, no biometric passport will be issued in this country, not one, until there are absolute security measures for the security of identification documents. And that, no matter how much pressure we have on this species, Europe or us domestics, I assure you that I will certainly not accept it until that moment until we can guarantee the citizens of BiH with a high probability, not to say 100%, of any guarantee. This agency is, you know, I don't need to tell you what we found in this CIPS until just a year and a half before we had 16 employees, and 120 per contract of action. Only, so 16 employees and 120 operating contracts! That we found a situation in this CIPS where they didn't have a systematization and organization rule. That the questions were not settled legally. The issue of funding is governed by the decision. We brought all this, you changed it, you brought here the Law on the Agency for Identification Documents, and I am really grateful that the increase in personnel was by not knowing how much, where now somewhere around 180 people will need employees in that system, which will be made possible in competitions that go on absolutely balancing and national structures that were really not adequate. Of course, why not, and I think the entrenched MP Ahmetović has given a similar question these days, and we sent it to him, and we sent you the answers about it. So that's one process. I'd be luckiest if we could do it in a month or two. But nothing will fail in the CIPS, but because of that, it's crucial that we solve this previous issue, and these are the parent offices. I urge you all to go to your commanders where the government is kept from your political parties and ours, yes, and to do so together. I'm going to have wider conversations these days with someone else from the administration's office, at least as much as it came out of the scope of us as the Ministry of Civil Affairs. So, let's just say, I don't defend the CIPS as a system, but I'm also defending it, because I can't accept that it's constantly being respected here and there that the CIPS has criminalized individuals. Absolutely not. No CIPS office has been searched. We don't have an office in White, or Srebrenica, or Banja Luka, anywhere. We only have one place, and this is Sarajevo and Banja Luka where documents are made. And there was no search. In the end, in this information, we stated that the prosecutor officially told us. 35 So, here is not a defense, but only a request, let us take a step together new. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22013	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister Nović. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Husein Nanić, and should be prepared by distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22014	I thank you, Chairman. The clarifications of the minister he gave were certainly useful, but we must face the fact that there is a problem. I share the view that the responsibility for the complete system is until the end when you need to get a document, means a ID card, whether a license, driver's license, etc., that liability is shared from the home offices through cantonal MUPs, whether the RS MUP or also the CIP project. I've been preparing for this session talking to a few matriarchs about this issue. And indeed, it is a disaster in which the parents in certain municipalities work. I think we need to make it clear here that we're not satisfied with it, that we need to find mechanisms here to fix it. This system, unless the chain is clearly and firmly connected, cannot produce results. And you, Minister, can say that everything is okay with the CIPS, but I don't think you can observe it peacefully given the data that comes in so that you do everything right – if they're not okay, and they're not okay, that it can be looked at freely and not take action. In that sense, I really think it is necessary to take full action in terms of importing a complete system, because imagine the fact that somewhere in the local community there is a home office, a basic birth document, about marriage, about death, that can enter whoever it wants and how it wants. I've actually seen it, I've been preparing for this session and this part of the agenda, I've been in the home offices where you can get off the street, literally, to write what you want with your hand. In that sense, I really think you need strong activity. And I think it would be good for the Ministry to find the funds. Look at one thing, we don't need, the municipalities are loaded and it's their obligation, it's the authority of the administration. However, what the parent offices do is more than just a municipality. This must not fall short of the responsibility of a local politician, a chief who will or will not see the problem, invest or not invest in the show. This project is important for the state, this project is important for all of us. In this respect, it is necessary to find the means to provide uniquely for the work of the home offices. Some municipalities may be able to allocate a little more resources, some of them can't. Secondly, some cantonal MUPs cannot respond in a good way and quality. Not everyone's in the same situation. There are strikes somewhere, there's no pay to be paid, etc., and without the complete circle of this system, I think we'll have a problem. In that sense, I support this mode of work that means the CIPS project as a CIPS, what you said is so, these are facts, but it is not complete unless that responsibility is complete, divided and if the system is not made that impossible abuse from the moment, because it is known that 36 documents are brought in the CIPS, a copy of the birth certificate, and a belief of citizenship, which is issued by the parent offices. There's a basic abuse. Now, in this sense, come on, Minister, so you are expected to have a complete programme and a project to resolve these activities in a unique way in BiH and perhaps you have to offer a proposal. I know the powers of the Council of Ministers, but there must be a solution in BiH. This problem and these questions are waiting for us, every day it will become more acute, every day it will all be more demanding and it will not be possible to punish citizens for not betraying, what you say, biometric passports until all this is done. We need to take action there so that it does not wait for someone to do or not, without citizens being able to get passports and that we cannot take on the commitments we have made towards the EU.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22015	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22016	I give up everything, we make a suggestion, so. I think the minister lined things up properly. So it's one that runs the administrative procedure, the other is the CIPS. And there is a void in it and in that void all those who are our problems live. The void should be closed. Adequate control should be established in relation to those who conduct the administrative procedure and the CIPS which appears as a document publisher, so that the CIPS, based on an irregular procedure, cannot be issued a document which can certainly not be regulated. Minister, you have our authority, you do it, you can do it without disrupting anyone's jurisdiction, because no one can have anything in this country against it. That's it, thank you. And this will be a proposal for our conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22017	Thank you. The following has been reported by the esteemed representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22018	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22019	Replica, the esteemed representative Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22020	You can call it a replica, but it's a supplement. So, I mean, what's the point of this? So the one who sets you up with this cowardly nest that he is bound by a certain procedure that, you understand, he can have problems if he gives you information that is incorrect. So, let's write it down. We can't order them to work, but we can say that we won't receive 37 documents unless a certain procedure has passed, followed certain standards when coming from the home office. Well, that's what we wanted to suggest, so if you have any better, more precise suggestions, tell us that's how we formulate it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22021	Dear Representative Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22022	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, I will be brief, since most of them have presented what I was going to say anyway. That I very much respect what Minister Nović said, as regards the activities that need to be led at the level of local communities. That would be political action. But I believe that in BiH, the issue of counterfeiting personal documents is the issue of an organised mafia with which we must, in every possible way, calculate ourselves. An ordinary citizen of this country does not need forged documents, these are criminals hanging from one or the other, or third-party state borders, and it is impossible that they are not in the most close contact with local administrative workers who issue copies of the birth and unique birth numbers and employees of interior departments at local level. So it's necessary, I believe that electronic processing is one of the major ways to prevent such abuse, but I think it's a key human factor, and when we do, there's going to be a possibility of abuse again. So, those who deal with the issue of these documents, I don't believe that even the worst local office has entered an uninformed man and issued a birth certificate and a copy of the birth certificate of the born, or a unique birth number for someone. So I believe that, in this sense, the responsibility is borne by the parents, or by their superiors, the heads of these departments, the mayors of the municipalities, the executive authority and the police structures responsible in this process. Is there anything on the C.I.P.S. level? I apologize, I believe what you said, in the end we must trust what has been proven so far. It makes me very happy, but what we need to strengthen, and we can't, you said it yourself, think of biometric passports, or any other document if... What does it mean that a criminal phone calls the public service and says he's in another country? He's been through all the controls! How can he get across the international airport? This one is hiding in Doboj in the nearest presence of ministry representatives or local authorities, I apologize, say that, or anywhere. So we need to calculate and send a clear message. If those who do so are not arrested in accordance with the law, and if no procedure is conducted, we will not have the safety of ordinary people. We have no convictions of being the country we run. So please write down the address of the Presidency of this country to someone and issue a personal document! We're not laughing at criminals, we're laughing at the workers of the state administration of this country by issuing such documents. Well, they're not the imbeciles who can't issue a home number, which says a co-worker, with 13 zeroes and so on. That's it, thank you. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22023	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22024	The president of Lozančić called for the word. Is there anyone else who wants to discuss it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22025	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Your Honor, I must say that, by respecting all the debates that are being held here today, I will especially remain at the part discussed by the honourable representative, Nanić. So we have the fact that today in BiH we have over 140 municipalities. There is at least one home office within each municipality. And within the vast majority of municipalities there are more than three and, I don't know, how many home offices. Many of them work in completely unconditional rooms. Many of them in unconditional spaces hold, keep, archive, so to speak, the birth books of the dead, the birth books of the married, etc. - all those books that are the basis for a false identity and a false document. We here have to underline, I thank the minister for a very clear fence, the CIPS is an institution of the BiH state and I must express my satisfaction, I believe that the CIPS is completely clean of illegality. It means that the CIPS is working very professionally, very responsiblely, but the CIPS, well, that's why I'm reporting now, with all the efforts the minister is making and needs to invest, but we have a situation that we have. The jurisdiction is so mixed up. The minister said nicely: tomorrow he called the interior ministers, if I understood correctly. Maybe someone will come, maybe the minister won't. So maybe you should make a recommendation. I know that in the Federation, the Federation is in charge of legislation in the field of parent books. Recommendation, now that I'm going to laugh, let me put it this way, since we've had such discussions today, since our entity parliaments,...at least one of them is sending recommendations to do something. Let's send them a recommendation that they do something. It means that, in the legislation on books of origin, on a personal name, on residence and residence, I don't know about driving licences, that I am now simply talking about vehicle registration, etc., which is all the subject of possible abuse, that we give them a recommendation to review the legislation and that in law, be careful, with all due respect to this political action. How are we going to consent to someone politically informing the home offices? I think it's absolutely, not just for the sake of protection, we need the information of the home offices for our citizens, because they're 15 times faster to resolve their rights. 99.9% of our citizens shouldn't have a problem because 00.1% has criminals who abuse, here's the state they have. So we have to make it possible for these citizens to come quickly to documents, effectively to come up with documents and have no problem because there are a few criminals who abuse the system. And we need to ensure that the system is resistant to criminals who are trying to abuse it. I think that's the only thing we can do by law with all the respect for any recommendations we can make. I would like this Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers to be responsible for this 39 area, then we could very easily adopt a conclusion and recommend that the Council of Ministers enter into the process of amending legislation from this area. I think that here in this sense we should look, if it is a recommendation to the competent parliaments of entities and the competent interior ministries, because they are overseeing the legality of carrying out parent books and issuing documents. Here, something in that sense, but it means that we try to come, I think it's our interest, that we have a quality system and that we don't come into a position to accuse the minister tomorrow, or, I don't know, the Council of Ministers why they're not able, for reasons they want to take the process seriously and responsibly, to start issuing biometric travel documents. Thank you very much. I don't have any more logs and I'm closing this agenda item. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. Report by the Joint Committee on Consensus of the Proposal for the appointment of the Ombudsman in the Ombudsman's Institution for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina I remind you, at the 32nd session, held on 14 July 2008, at the Ombudsman's Institute for Human Rights, we appointed Ljubomir Sandić, Mariofil Ljubić and Emina Halilović. The home of the people at the 19th session of July 2008 at the Ombudsman's Institution named Ljubomir Sandić, Ivo Bradvica and Jasminka Džumhur. Since the same members of the Croatian and Bosniak people have not been appointed in both homes, following a series of consultations on getting out of this situation, the establishment of a Joint Coordination Commission was followed. On 5 November, the Joint Commission submitted the Report of Understanding. The subject of reconciliation was candidates from Bosniak and Croatian nations. You have seen, the Committee agreed to be named Ivo Bradvica of the Croatian people and Jasminka Džumhur of the Bosniak people in the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution. I remind you that the Serbian people's candidate was not controversial. So in both homes, Ljubomir Sandić was named. Finally, the Joint Committee proposes to the Houses a conclusion requiring the Ministry of Justice to deliver an opinion on the validity of the Joint Committee's procedure for harmonising the Proposal for the appointment of the Ombudsman for Human Rights. I'm opening a discussion on the consent report. Dear Representative Martin Raguž. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22027	I thank you, Mr. President, for your warm welcome. Well, very short and very precise. So we have one of the most absurd reports, and I am long in this House of Representatives, and as such will be marked in the work and practice of this home for several reasons. First, the members of the Joint Committee on Consensus from this House, the three, agreed to this proposal by revote, and they did not stand behind the position that this House of Representatives had brought before, but agreed with the proposal of the candidate who received five votes in this House and did not pass this House. I don't think it was voted, nor will it be voted in parliamentary practice, and at least let it be recorded that it is so done. So they've deviated from the established proposal of this home. And this home has chosen to agree with another home. That's the first thing. It's another thing. The candidate who confirmed this home, and for the second time, it was not voted at all, was not an opportunity to vote on it at the House of Peoples session because, as the people usually do, it was not a proposal of the House of Representatives, but, when he saw which candidates were elected, he waited to carry out his own procedure as if it were going from the beginning. It's another thing that supports this. And the third thing that alarmingly warns, in fact, how far away we are from getting ourselves an epithet of the rule of law is the fact that things have gone so far beyond the framework of the law that this issue regulates and pressures where people are going to be applied, and this is about people, not the law, and this is the procedure for compliance when it comes to laws. I'm asking you to think this through. The least this home can do... is to reject this report, and from my dear colleagues – because I accepted in front of this house that we come to a compromise that this commission agrees on legal aspects and other elements, which should have been his primary task – I asked, if a political option is already coming from this home, before you all and accepted that an agreement has been reached, that it is coming from another home, and it is not respected either. So let it remain written down, and let it be known. I think if this report goes through, the process won't end on this. He'll probably go to court, and I don't think that's the role and dimension of this House of Representatives necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22028	I thank the esteemed representative Raguž. The next is Remzija Kadrić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22029	I'm thanking you. 41 So, by the trace of what Representative Raguž was saying, I just want to comment here on this conclusion of the Joint Commission, in which they suggest that the next conclusion be reached. It says, the BiH Ministry of Justice is asked to deliver an opinion on the validity of the Joint Commission's procedure for the alignment of the proposal for the appointment of the Ombudsman for human rights of BiH. So, they've implemented the alignment procedure, and then they're asking, they're suggesting that this home draws a conclusion, they're likely to limit themselves to something, to conclude that the Ministry delivers an opinion whether this procedure is valid or not. I guess before they agreed to these proposals, they should have asked the Ministry of Justice to deliver an opinion on whether this procedure was valid, which should be implemented, and only after the alignment procedure was carried out. No, but after a concerted proposal, then they're asking this home to come to the conclusion that the Justice Department is assessing whether this is okay or not. I think it's really contradictory and kind of confusing.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22030	I appreciate it. The next one was announced by Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22031	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have previously expressed our reservations at the SDS Club according to this method of harmonising the proposal for the ombudsman's position, considering that it is a matter of criminal interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. That, therefore, I don't want to say it again, but I would like to draw attention to the conclusion of this Joint Commission. Namely, the Commission is asking the Justice Ministry to deliver an opinion on the validity of the Joint Commission's procedure for the alignment of the proposal for the appointment of the Ombudsman for human rights of BiH. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Rules of Procedure interprets the College of the House of Representatives. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations interprets the College of the House of Nations and the last to interpret it as the Ministry of Justice, or the Ministry of Justice, cannot interpret the procedures of the Rules of Procedure of ours or the House of Peoples. So this conclusion doesn't make any sense, and that's why we think, firstly, that it would be good if this report of compliance were not adopted by this or for that reason, and that this whole procedure would be repeated, in order to, in accordance with the law, be given to the Ombudsman. I know the problem is we don't have these institutions, but we have, believe me, a much bigger problem if what we're doing today got an epilogue in court in a way that we didn't do the job right. Then that process would be longer than the one I'm proposing. But of course, I spoke similarly last time, so it was voted as voted. I just want to warn you this time about that fact and pay attention to the conclusion that, I don't think, makes any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22032	I would like to thank Reverend Novaković. 42 The following has been reported by the esteemed representative Križanović. I'm not talking about who's next, because I don't have a moment to report it, but you're reporting selectively, or gradually. Honorable representative Križanović, then prepare the distinguished representative Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22033	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll do it very briefly, because I can actually just say that I completely agree with what my colleague Raguž was saying. So this would be a precedent if the joint commissions of homes agreed to personal solutions, or appointments. I do not think it is in line with our Rules of Procedure, and I will, for this reason, be against such proposals and against the conclusion, especially this conclusion, as explained by counterpart Novaković. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22034	Thank you. The next is a respected representative, Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22035	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I would just like to support what was said before by Raguž and the other MPs, and I think we should have two things in mind here. The first thing is that here, more than obviously, the procedures are not respected and that we will be in one position when we reach the Ombudsman in court, and that will distance us from the next half of a year or a year to obtaining a final solution to this problem. And secondly, if I understand correctly, Miss Alma Čolo said at a meeting of the House of Nations that the decision of the House of Representatives was not delivered to the House of Peoples and that the decision of the House of Representatives was not binding and that they voted without our decision, according to their own decision. They probably knew about the decision that was here, and they voted on it. Therefore, my proposal would be to support the conclusion, to ask the BiH Ministry of Justice to deliver an opinion on the validity of the procedures and to finally make a decision on the issue at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22036	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Drago Kalabić. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22037	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, since it concerns those of us who participated in the work of this committee, it is time to say a few things. I ask myself, probably, the question: If we had agreed on the other two candidates, would we be having this kind of discussion? Probably for argumentation and rhetoric of change, but good, and that's it. I remind here the fans of OHR's kitchen and droplets that OHR insisted on his letters, which often get up here on behalf of OHR and mention it and ask for attitude or I don't know either. So that's one thing. Secondly, I was in this commission's session, given that we got the mandate we got, and it seems to me that Mr. Novaković was the only one who spoke when we chose this commission, we knew what we were going to face. And there was no such dilemma here, because the decision was valid. Everyone knew what our mission was, but everyone expected the result. Those who didn't get their results, now have that argument and what I'm also, in a way, agreeing with. If there was a dilemma, there was, it's not a dispute. And I pulled her on the Commission, and I told her, and we made this conclusion. I'm still... still standing in a dilemma. But at the same time, I'm asking for someone to offer what's the way out, what's the alternative. We couldn't find a better way than we did and we did what we did. So, I don't know, if anyone had offered us anything else, we would have. We did what we did, it's not controversial. If this isn't good and this isn't good, if it puts everything in doubt, it should be put in some way a/a. But I don't think it's only right at the end right now, let's say we could have made a difference. How? I'd like to say how? Unless, if we decide to do it again now, we should've decided sooner, which we could've done as well. Is the dilemma true: can we match people? It is the first time that we can agree on names, because it is somewhat controversial, but it is also that this Parliament, the House of Representatives, and the House of Peoples, have become an obstruction for the selection of ombudsmans, that this is about us, that there is no agreement that could have been reached by this Parliament, there are no particular reasons why I will not enter, who would not agree with and why. We did, I mean, the only thing we could do, not getting into names now. Names could have been different. The choice could have been this one and that one. That now, and I don't think these people were saying about names, too, but they were talking about procedure. It's up to the House to decide what this is all about and whether it can go this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22038	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22039	Here, the distinguished representative Kalabić, even his skilled rhetoric, can't cover this. So, when this decision is made, there's a stenogram, and I was warning you then, Mr. Kalabić, so don't impute now, I'll deliver you a stenogram, that this is related to the result personally. It is absolutely not related to..., although it has exceptional implications, because you have been chosen from this home to agree on the proposal of this home that passed through at this home, not to accept a proposal that did not pass on at this home. You didn't want to say a word about it. That's the essence of the story. 44 And the second thing, the Commission could first submit and request all legal aspects of reconciliation, business, legal, etc., so as to notify this House of the conjectures that could follow and thereby justify its appointment from home. That's the essence of the story, Mr. Kalabić. Who was he making a deal with? Someone tell me if I've called or negotiated or talked or worked any of the members of the Committee. So the point of the story is, is this home going to get into an adventure? That's all I'm talking about. That's why I'm here. If the commission's in, we won't come in, at least me. And that's what I publicly say here, like I said then. And, Mr. Kalabić, the stories of OHR? Here's a witness here, did I warn the OHR? Have them confirm to you that this procedure is coming out of the legal framework. That's my opinion. I had the strength to tell them that back then, and now I'm here to tell them again. And with OHR, I need to have principled communication, not get into any kind of kitchen, and at least I'm trying to have one.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22040	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative of Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22041	Well, I don't think I see any reason for replicas, and I don't see any reason to keep it. This commission didn't get into any adventure. This home gave the Commission a mandate to do something that was majority opinion and now it's true that you were against it, but you were past that majority opinion, which does not mean that you were or are wrong. Mostly, which he can decide most of the time. As for agreeing on the different principles of alignment? If we went to that, then we shouldn't have gotten along. If, by this principle, the delegates of the House of Nations defend this, we do not have to go, we had an unconformed attitude in the beginning, if this is the only mandate that we are given! At least I understood it so much that we had a mandate to agree. We could've gotten along just like we did anywhere. And that's where we agreed on the majority principle. We couldn't do it on someone else. But everything we did, we got a mandate from this home and he could change everything and he could change it. So, the Commission didn't, she was in front of the dilemmas that I'm facing today, and I don't mind if you think this should happen again and that this should, in some way, be brought down. But I don't think we had a mandate that was given to us that we had any option of a different choice and anything else to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22042	I thank the esteemed representative Kalabić. Replica, the esteemed representative of Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22043	I'll give the replica, especially if I'm not, you know, prone to replicas, especially with Mr. Kalabić. So let's get this over with. Everyone said what they said. Most, you know, and the minority, don't always have to maintain the strength of the arguments, and, in this case, I'm absolutely telling you, Mr. Kalabić, that I'm a million percent right. 45 And only for the end of this controversy. To agree with the Committee, it had to be unanimous. That's the practice of harmonising the law. That's not the case here. So there were votes... if you are already referring to this practice of compliance by the Rules of Procedure and the free creative interpretation of the Rules of Procedure which absolutely, when it comes to people, cannot be applied! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22044	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. Report by the Joint Committee on Harmonisation of the Proposal for appointment of the Vice Chief Auditor And in this point we have the same situation, i.e. no identical decisions have been taken in homes on the appointment of the Chief Auditor and Deputy. Namely, the House of Representatives held at the 29th session, held on 4 June 2008, was appointed Chief Auditor Milenko Šega, and as Deputys Božan Trninić and Munevera Bahtić. At the 18th session, held on 17 June 2008, the people's home was named chief auditor Milenko Šega, and Deputy Dževad Nekić and Božana Trninić. The Joint Committee has been established to agree. The subject of the agreement was the deputy chief auditor from the Bosniak people. On 12 November 2008, the Joint Commission submitted a Report on Consensus. The agreement has been reached that the deputy chief auditor from the Bosniak people is named Dževad Nekić. I'm opening a debate on the Joint Committee's report. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 15th point of the agenda: 46 Ad. 15. Selection of members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance (Rang-list of the Council of Ministers)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22047	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, today, in the break of this session, we have received a letter that you wrote to us, which really states that the Constitutional Commission should be manifested on this proposed document, and today 15 to 3 we held a session of the Constitutional Commission and we have only partially completed the work. Minister Nović, I apologize to you, was absent, had then one delegation to be accepted and could not attend session 47 of the Commission and we did not want without the presence of Minister Nović to decide on this second part. Actually, you asked us two questions. One question is: is this about choice or appointment? And the second was: a requirement to read ourselves according to this list, to express our views and opinions. This first question is settled. So, however this law is looked at, although it is a provision of Article 51. The law on higher education is partly contradictory, because it is about choice, it is also about appointments, but when you look at the previous provisions that speak about the selection of directors, so when you look at the provision that talks about how to choose the Management Board and the Director of the Centre for the Recognition of diplomas and the overall meaning of the law – this is a choice. So there's no dilemma here for us. The point is choice, although it should explain those standards. So this point is called right here in the agenda, so it's about choice. Before I could move on and go on, this is the Constitutional Commission's position. We didn't describe him, I'm taking him out now. Here are the members of the Constitutional Commission, let them say if I said something wrong. If I didn't, then their silence would mean that this is the right thing to do. Before I go any further, it would be incorrect for me to present my judgment and my opinion and other members of the Commission, I would ask Minister Nović to refer to the procedure, and then I will say what I think. Careful, when it comes to education, two institutions are formed under the Law on Higher Education. It's so-called. It's a center for the recognition of diploma, it's so-called CIP, short-listed. He has a director who has two deputies and has a board of directors. The board of directors of the CIP, it is not a subject here today, but it is important because of the very spirit of the law, to elect a Council of Ministers based on a public competition. That's the definition. Both directors and deputies are elected on the basis of a public competition. And that's when it comes to the CIP. When it comes to this agency, as we call for accreditation, it's for recognition, for assessment, you know the name. So, I call it the Accreditation Agency, which is what we're talking about today. The 'Selection of the Management Board', therefore, is a definition of 'the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH'. This is the definition of this law. So, "The selection of the Management Board is being held by the Parliamentary Assembly," and then it's being said, "at two years, at three years", etc. at the first appointment, what you read. It is not clear from this definition who implements the procedure when it comes to the selection of the Management Board. And to that question, we're going to have to give some answers here today during this session, for the best part, is that, in order not to make a procedural mistake, because this is a definition when it comes to the Agency for Accreditation. "The selection of members of the Management Board shall be carried out by the Parliamentary Assembly." I could almost be free now and say that it has to be done on the basis of a public competition. I'd like to hear the minister now with the answer to the question: who exactly is the one doing the procedure? Because this is where the Ministry conducted the procedure. And when I hear that part of the minister's presentation, then I'll tell you what else I think about it. I say again in best interest to come up with a solution. Here, the goal is not to make a procedural mistake and to bring it down tomorrow. That's why I'm saying it. That's it. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22048	I would like to thank the honourable representative Džaferović. I ask the Honorable Minister Nović to refer to these questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22049	Sometimes it's good and you don't do anything, so at least you wait for someone else to do it and then you don't take any risks. Namely, why is this all implemented? Waiting almost a year for this parliament to do its part of the work as we initially thought we should choose the Governing Board and we have been in a great dilemma, it must be recognised whether we should implement the procedure, the Council of Ministers to decide that the Ministry of Civil Affairs should implement the entire procedure through the competition and that then candidates who are satisfied we propose to this Parliament that it should basically choose and accept or not accept the proposed list of candidates for the Management Board. It was a dilemma. We, I say, have waited a long time, asked for Parliament to end it or to hear from us. We didn't get that, and this ministry proposed to the Council of Ministers to consider the issue. The Council of Ministers also discussed the issue and established, at a meeting in March of the month, a decision on the start of the Agency's work on higher education and quality assurance, and then adopted a Decision on the Agency's headquarters, on space, technicals and equipment and the beginning of work, and entrusted the Ministry of Finance and Treasury to BiH institutions (International Obligations of BiH for 2008). to provide financial resources for the Agency's work for this year. And it was done, so including the 2009 budget. It then tasked the Ministry of Civil Affairs to carry out an election procedure in accordance with the Law on Ministerial Names, the appointment of the Council of Ministers and other appointments of BiH and to propose to the Council of Ministers the appointment of directors and deputy directors of the Agency. It also tasked the Ministry of Civil Affairs to establish and implement the procedure for selecting members of the Management Board, to submit a proposal to the Council of Ministers for a list of candidates for members of the Management Board for identification. Indeed, the Ministry of Civil Affairs has done the job in a way that has called a public ad for the selection and appointment of the Management Board of the Higher Education Development Agency published in May 2008 and the Commission for the selection of members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Security Agency is also appointed for the selection by the Minister of Civil Affairs, who carried out the task. And, after an interview was published, the Commission assessed candidates for the selection of members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Security Agency. Ten candidates of 19 have joined the interview on the basis of winning points have met the conditions to be included in the ranking list, the best candidates, and these are the candidates the chairman has read. What makes us think we don't have much time is why we got into this, which is that the Council of Ministers has already appointed the director and two deputy agencies. They have already begun, basically, to make all necessary preparations for the adoption of the necessary acts. Directors and deputies should adopt the statutes and regulations on systemization and organisation. In order for the Statute to be adopted, the Management Board of the Agency shall be the only one who may approve that Statute. That statute can't be passed. In order to adopt a regulation on organisation and systematisation, as a lower legal act, it is natural to adopt the first statute. Of course, if we do not have the Governing Board, these three men will have to wait for a period to be appointed by the Governing Board to be further implemented by the law laid down the procedure. 49 I have no objection to this house. But I do claim that a respected procedure is in line with the Law on Ministerial Names: the competition, a month has been called, the Commission has been appointed, etc., I do not believe that anyone cares that this agency is still waiting, given its excessive role in the higher education system. Indeed, here I am leaving this high-level home to assess whether or not we can accept this kind of election from the Management Board and agree with the honourable MP Džaferović, and it is, unfortunately, not just one provision that is not laid down in the procedures of how some things should be done. Here, you should keep in mind all this stuff I've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22050	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister Nović. Here, the word again comes from distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22051	So when I was finishing my discussion, I said that on behalf of the Commission I was looking for clarifications in the best interest. So there's no dilemma, we're all aware of the situation that we need the institution in full capacity, as soon as possible and I on my part can only praise or thank the Ministry that worked this part of the job. Since procedures must be conducted strictly, precisely, because people later call for procedures, I just want to warn all possible potentials that can occur tomorrow and therefore I suggest this home to choose these 10 proposed by the Ministry. So, it is not disputed to choose these 10 proposed by the Ministry, but before that, Dom says that the procedure carried out by the Ministry of Civil Affairs is actually his procedure and that he accepts this procedure, because Parliament chooses, so it stands, and then we choose these 10. So let's state that. We, therefore, are aware that this is, as a rule, as a rule, so, Mr Minister, we should have done an ad hoc commission that would form both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. We have cases like that. I haven't seen those letters in a year. They went where they went, there was no reaction. The House could priorly empower you not to form a commission, the House decides on the procedure of what it will be, or Parliament. Here, you did it, and here I suggest that Dom accept it as his procedure and accept these 10 that you suggested he choose them.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22052	I would like to thank the honourable representative Džaferović. The next one was announced by Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22053	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed Minister, you see, would be nice if it could be done as simply as Mr. Džaferović said, if we could simply declare it our procedure, you know. Then we wouldn't have a dilemma about much here, 50 because we could declare it our own. If we had worked this way, we would have had an Ombudsman by now, because I suppose the Council of Ministers would have agreed and proposed a list of three ombudsmen and we would have had the opportunity to vote for all three at once or not to vote. The same would happen with auditors, it would be the same with the members of the Central Election Commission, because everywhere in these laws it says the same thing: that members of the Central Election Commission are elected by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the ombudsman is elected by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly chooses board members in the way it does and with what I just said: the formation of an ad hoc commission that enters the procedure, by calling out a public ad and selecting board members. And there's no dilemma here, so it doesn't exist here, I don't see what this law is about. And if he is unspeakable, then he enters the process of authentic interpretation. Someone who applies it should initiate an authentic interpretation procedure if someone thinks the norm is unarranged. So here it is absolutely clear how members of the Management Board are elected. What we have here today is the appointment of the top ten candidates, without being able to change any of these ten, because these others don't even know what they're called. I don't even have data on their quality and quality of these, and on how to score and everything else, so that after this, when I get out, I can say that I chose these people. Whether voting for or not, it doesn't matter, but I chose them. You see, I think the Council of Ministers here was doing a job that wasn't supposed to work. If the Council of Ministers started in March of the month in the process of forming the Agency, and we heard from the minister that it was, why did the Council of Ministers not inform this Parliament that it had begun the process of forming the Agency, that the plan was to complete the process by the end of 2008 and that the Parliamentary Assembly was obliged to appoint the Management Board, i.e. elect the Management Board. We'd do it, too. The Parliamentary Assembly could not do something until the process started, until the process of forming this institution began. Perhaps at first I should have said that I speak for the best cause, because it seems, firstly, that a man must say that he speaks for the best purpose, so that it is not understood that he does not speak for the best, but for the worst purpose. Here, and I'm talking about the best way to get one of these 11 that's not among these 10 don't get into the story and spoil the accounts and challenge this kind of election of members and extend this period much longer. And I agree that we should have already finished establishing this agency. Maybe it's all a web and some, here's what I'm saying, and circumstances, and even discrepancies, since it's the law where these provisions are first applied, and, look, I'm inclined to think about it, and it also means that it's that way, but I'm not inclined to take the consequences of it today by raising my hand or pressing this button as done. So, I suggest that we today do not accept this ranking of the best candidates as if we have executed the selection of board members, because we simply do not have..., the Law on Higher Education does not allow us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22054	I would like to thank Reverend Novaković. Replica, the esteemed representative Džaferović. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22055	Momo, I still think there may be two variations of your exposure or you're not in the best interest or maybe you haven't finished reading these provisions, you don't understand them. I think one of those things, one of those two, I believe this is the other, I read them all the time. I didn't happen to mention the CIP. I do, too, so you know, when it comes to names, we can talk, but if we open that question I could ask some questions, I'm not just going to open that question. When spoken of, I did not accidentally read the way the CIP Management Board was elected, so please, the CIP is managed by the Management Board,... this is what we are not discussing, but it is very important for comparison, it is the second institution under this law for the recognition of diploma, so the CIP is managed by the Board of Directors who has seven members. The BiH Council of Ministers elects the Management Board after a public parity-based competition. This is the norm that speaks of the selection of the Governing Board of this institution, the first, which is not the subject of what we have today, which is in the Higher Education Act. And when it comes to the selection of the Management Board of this Agency for Accreditation, it is said: 'The members of the Agency's Management Board shall be elected by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for a term of three years, with the possibility of re-election provided that the initial appointment is carried out in phases, so that one third of the members will be re-elected or re-appointed each year.' So it is true that they are elected by the Parliamentary Assembly. The procedure, unlike the institution there, is not prescribed at all, which means it doesn't have to be a public competition. The procedure for the Rules of Procedure of this House is not prescribed, which means that Parliament itself rules the procedure for each appointment. So when we talked about the Ombudsmans, we prescribed a procedure, then the Electoral Commission procedure, etc. Not procedures ad hoc commission for other cases of procedures prescribed for this case as well. We need to determine the procedure, and that procedure can be so, let's say -- here we are today meeting here to hear 10 names or 20 names and let's pick 10 names right now and that would be the procedure that this home has decided on. That's why I'm saying, we can't say today by our decision that we're confirming this ranking list appointed by the Council of Ministers. I said, we have to accept, just, here's someone else did it, we believe or don't trust him and say, illogically what he did, we decide to do it today and so do we choose 10 of these people and then it's in accordance with this law. And it is equally valid, in my opinion, just as if we had decided today to form an ad hoc commission to call a competition, to have it evaluate, our people, so from here from Parliament people, we, MPs/legislators, and then come here to Parliament. We decide what kind of procedure it is. And I didn't just happen to say it in good faith, and I don't need to make any circus out of it. I said I wanted to get to the institution as soon as possible. I have, I repeat, and I have objections, I could, but about that I can and later, now my goal is to get what we need to get. That's it. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22056	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22057	And you see, I can also understand that the goal justifies the means. So, if Mr. Jaferovic's goal is what he finally said to us now, and he has remarks that I wouldn't today, then here he is now, it means definition of good intentions, and it's not the definition of good intentions to do something in accordance with the law. It's a strange analogy, Mr. Džaferović, to compare the two institutions within this... that have been formed by this law and that in one in which it says board members choose the Council of Ministers You are now making analogy with the possibility that it was thought here too, but it's not said like that, you know. And don't make a connection with the law, with the choice of Ombudsmans, auditors, etc. where it's said the same way, and it's already done differently. It would be logical for you to make this other relationship that I've been making, so we both have good intentions. So my intentions are to finish the job, too. But my intention is not to end it in the first place, and my intention is not to, what the Council of Ministers didn't do on time, we need to hide now. So that's not my intention. If the Council of Ministers had done what it was supposed to do in March, we wouldn't have had this debate today and we would have the Board of Directors. As the Central Election Commission informs us that the term of office has expired and so do we, too, form an ad hoc commission and call out a public ad. If he does not inform us, we do not know that he has expired any member of the CEC mandate. So we couldn't know here that the Council of Ministers formed the Agency or set off in the process of forming the Agency. I won't answer again. The next time I get back, I'm really gonna feel bad about my intentions. So I hope that none of those other 11 or 9+2=11 listens to this debate and is not very interested in being a member of the Management Board, so that they will not go into court and that in five months we will not discuss it and that we will not have on the Constitutional Commission to seek the court to plead as the Constitutional Legal Commission, etc. I hope none of this goes through today's election, the selection of this list from the possibility of this list.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22058	Dear Representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22059	Mr. Novaković, I ask you, when you talk about goals and means, you know where it can all go together, to be more careful when you use it, because it can mean very ugly, it has a very ugly meaning. I will tell you that I am a man who advocates legitimate goals and who, in order to achieve these objectives, does not use all means, but democratic means. So you know that, that definition, and in that there's a huge difference between what you could have pointed at and what, so that's the difference between fascism and democracy, after all, and I'm telling you right now here. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2008-11-19-1.u22060	All right, I don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 16th point of the agenda: Ad. 16. Request of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House to give its consent to determine the consolidated text of the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH of the Prosecutors of BiH On 13 November 2008, the constitutional committees of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delivered a conclusion requiring both homes in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure to authorise constitutional commissions to establish the consolidated texts of the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH and the Law on the Prosecution of BiH, since this law does not stipulate that commissions are obliged to establish the consolidated texts of the law. You mentioned the conclusion of the commissions got. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 17th point of the agenda: Ad. 17. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Credit agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury and Bank of Austria, Fojnica-Kiseljak Water Construction Project and the Lepenica-Kiseljak sewerage collector; (b) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the reciprocal improvement of investment protection; (c) Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation of BiH and the European Investment Bank, the Water and sewerage Project in the Federation of BiH; d) European Agreement on the submission of applications for legal aid
