ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-0.u1487	I suggest we start working. We're all complete. Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers welcome you all and representatives of the media. And we, at the very beginning, will first conclude our 11th session, which we have interrupted on the statement on the proposal for a law on denationalisation in the first reading, whose proposal is the Council of Ministers. We held a discussion at the last session, as you know, about this bill. As you know, we have postponed a statement on this law for this session and a proposal not to have any more discussions than to approach the plea. That means either the law goes through or it doesn't. Today's sequel is attended by all delegates, except Mr. Tihić, who justified his absence so that conditions were created so that we could plead. Before the plea, before that, one request. I ask you all to put your cards on, the technique has been trained, and we will vote electronically from today. You have a green, white and red color, it's missing blue but here, so we'll be able to declare ourselves electronically, so I'm asking you to necessarily put your cards in for that planned...place so that you can access the vote. Before the vote, Mrs. Majkić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-0.u1488	I would like to say that I am very sorry that the College did not have the understanding to wait for tomorrow's public debate to take place here, in this home, and that we must make a final decision, before the metric opinions regarding this law are heard, because the Club of delegates of the Serbian people was ready to do, therefore, that concession to take on the basis of metric opinions, even those who did not find it appropriate that this law is against all citizens and against all national interests. So, because it is done as it is, I say on behalf of the Serbian People's Club that we will not support the principles of this law. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-0.u1489	Thank you very much. I suggest we don't open the debate. The college has decided to schedule a session. We've done everything. Last time we had a proposal to just say yes to the vote, but here, if anyone else has a chance to or wish to say something special, I'll make it possible. There isn't. So we approach the vote on the proposal for a law on denationalisation in the first reading. Please state with "yes", "abstained" and "against". Now, how's the technique going?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-0.u1490	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-0.u1491	Did you push? [[Common discussion]] We'll see. Since it's a start, I've got a lot of buttons here, so we'll do it again. First, when I'm ready to vote. Please vote. I have information that the vote is over. The result? Looks like it's not again! We'll try again electronically. If it doesn't go this time, then we'll see, while we get a little technique. So, get ready to vote. You can vote. The vote is over. "For" was: two, four, two, four, six, eight. The total vote was "yes" 10, "against" four. One from RS "for", four "against", has no entity majority. The law didn't pass, did it? Is it going round two?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-0.u1493	The law has no other circle.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-0.u1494	There isn't. Okay. Thank you very much. 3 Please, therefore this law did not pass. Please hold for five minutes so the technique can change the new tapes after the new session begins but only five minutes and we will immediately begin with the 12th session. Thank you. [[PAUZA]] ...let's go. We made a little mistake. The law had most of the necessary, half-delegate, but it had no entity majority. Me and Mr Filipović tried to reach agreement in the College. We didn't come to an agreement, so we need to approach... the second round. Prepare to vote. So the question now is, who's "for" this law, and who's "against",... so we'll see.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-0.u1496	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-0.u1497	They all vote, they all vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Say it, say it, please, say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-0.u1499	It is irrelevant that but only those who are "against" should be declared to see if we have again most entity "against" it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-25-0.u1500	Just please, secretary: do all or only those who voted? I, as far as I know, have always voted so far. [[Common discussion]] Just a second. We have two interpretations. One interpretation by Mrs. Majkić, who says only those who voted "against", another interpretation of the secretary who says they all vote. 4 [[Common discussion]]
