ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15974	Gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers, please register. Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 22nd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As usual, regular guests were invited to attend the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations who expressed interest in attending meetings, representatives of certain NGOs. According to the service report, I find that 39 MPs attend the session. The absence was justified by honourable MP Sefer Halilović. And at this session, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have one previous question. It is, in fact, a proposal for a declaration of responsibility submitted by the SNSD Member's Club that was forwarded to you yesterday. Since our Rules of Procedure did not specifically regulate the issue of making a declaration, the chairman of the SNSD Club yesterday accepted the proposal to rename this declaration as a resolution and, since the usual practice here in the House is for all motions of resolutions, we now need to decide whether the motion for a resolution will be previously discussed in the relevant committee. And I urge you to make it clear that the motion for a resolution on responsibility is previously considered in the committee responsible. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 33, "against" four, "abstained" two. I find that the motion for a resolution on the responsibility of the SNSD Club has previously been sent to the commission phase. Ladies and gentlemen, I have called this session by calling for the position (3) of Article 62. The home's rules of procedure, it is within 10 days, in order to make a decision within the business period to confirm the appointment of the deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers and deputy ministers of the Council of Ministers of BiH. 2 Also, I consider it justified for us to bring the Budget of the BiH institutions as soon as possible and, as you know, shortened the deadlines for the discussion of the Budget. You received a draft agenda in the invitation to the session. Meanwhile, after calling for a written session, the Council of Ministers laid down draft laws to be delivered to Parliament on 15 February. We immediately forwarded these laws through mail, noting that they would be included in the 22nd session agenda if the competent commissions delivered an opinion on these legislative proposals, i.e. Opinions on the constitutional basis and opinions on principles. We have, therefore, agreed in the College to move quickly with the procedure for these laws, given the need to respect certain deadlines, but also to meet the conditions for signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement BiH as soon as possible. At a session of the Kolegijum as well as at a session of the Extended College, which we held yesterday to prepare this session, the chair of the clubs in principle supported these amendments to the agenda, so that depending on how the competent commission will decide, some additions to the proposed agenda with two legislative proposals concerning police reform have been carried out. The committee in charge, meanwhile, is in session and you will be given the opinion of the committee in charge today at the session. On the bench you get the updated agenda. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15975	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say immediately that I do not believe that the business preconditions for inclusion in the agenda of the Bill on Independent and Supervisory Authorities of the Police Structure and the Proposal for a Law on the Coordination of Police Authorities and Police Structures Support Agency have been met. Namely, in Article 105. The Rules of Procedure reads: When they receive the opinion of the Constitutional Commission and the committee responsible, delivered by the Chairman of the House, the College shall include the draft law in the agenda of the House session, which will be held within 7 to 15 days. I note, the committee's opinion has not yet been given, and today we have proposals for these two laws to be placed on the agenda. Therefore, I think that business, taking into account the way these proposals have been discussed in the Defence and Security Commission, I think it would be good to postpone the examination of these drafts of the law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15976	Thank you. As I have noted, we have received a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission and we have information that the Defence and Security Commission, the Joint Commission, has discussed this. The opinions are in the typing phase and we will certainly get it at the session, which is why all the conditions, according to us in the College, have respected that these legal projects are on the agenda today. 3 If there is no more to report, I conclude the debate. Since there have been no changes and additions to the agenda, I find that the 22nd House session has the following 1. Confirmation of appointment of Deputy Chairman, Minister and Deputy Minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers; 2. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international obligations of BiH for 2008 (second reading); 3. Proposal for a law on independent supervisory bodies of the BiH police structure (first reading); 4. Proposal for a Law on a Directorate for the Coordination of Police Authorities and on Police Structure Support agencies in BiH (first reading); 5. Information on general security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with special reference to juvenile delinquency (at the conclusion of the 21st session of the House); 6. Information from the Council of Ministers on activities related to the establishment and operation of the Commission for the Truth Survey on the death of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej and others in Sarajevo from 1992 to 1995; 7. Proposal for a resolution on Bosnia and Herzegovina's readiness for NATO integration, 8. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the governments of other SEECP participating countries, Mission of the United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo, on behalf of Kosovo, in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1224. Ladies and gentlemen, given that I have received a request from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who is currently in the meeting by 15 to 12, we will begin with the first item of the agenda, where he will first address at 1200 hours. I'm taking a break until 12:00. Pause
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15980	Gentlemen, the chairman, distinguished ladies of Parliament and MPs, esteemed guests, media representatives, I just wanted to draw attention to several chronological elements related to the forwarding of the Decision on the appointment of ministers and deputy ministers, i.e. the new - old convocation of the Council of Ministers. As you know, the BiH presidency at its 10th emergency session, held on 27.12.2007, made the decision to appoint me as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives at its 19th session, held on 28.12.2007, approved the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers chairman after the parliamentary committee responsible for preparing the election of the Council of Ministers of BiH submitted opinions on my similarity to serve as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Following consultations with representatives of parliamentary parties, 3.1.2008, I asked the Party of Democratic Action, the Party for BiH, the HDZ, the HDZ'90s, SNSD and the PDP's names of ministers and deputy ministers, with full forms of candidate for the Central Election Commission, the State Investigation and Protection Agency, the BiH Parliamentary House Representative's Commission. The parliamentary parties have succesively provided me with names for ministers and deputy ministers at the BiH Council of Ministers between January 5th and 10th. The data were submitted by the Party for BiH, SDA, HDZ BiH, HDZ in '90, and between 11th and 14th January 2008 the PDP and SNSD. After the parties provided me with information from candidates for ministers and deputy ministers, I submitted their signed statements to the Central Election Commission and to the State Investigation and Protection Agency for verification, in accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH. The State Agency for Investigation and Protection submitted a report in 29.1.2008 confirming the accuracy of the data provided in the forms. From the Central Election Commission of BiH, I received a certificate of 13 candidates in 28.1.2008 to meet all the necessary conditions prescribed by Article 10.c) of the Law on the Council of Ministers to appoint 6 ministers and deputy ministers. Certificates for the remaining six candidates were submitted by the Central Election Commission in 7.2.2008. In 7.2.2008, the Central Election Commission also informed us that against the candidates for ministers and deputy ministers in the Council of Ministers of BiH: Sven Alkalaj, Igor Crnadko and before Senad Šebić, and it concluded that they had committed a breach of the provisions of the Law on Conflict of Interest in the BiH Authorities, which I also informed the BiH Parliamentary House Commission of BiH about preparing the election of the Council of Ministers. In 8.2.2008, I submitted signed statements by candidates, official confirmation of the Central Election Commission, with information on the verifications carried out by candidates and the State Agency for Investigation and Protection reports, with a request that they carry out the process of verifying candidates and the House of Representatives deliver an opinion with a recommendation. In 8.2.2008, I submitted a Decision on the appointment of ministers and their deputies to the Commission to prepare the election of the BiH Council of Ministers. After a positive decision by the Commission from this home, I ask that today confirm: - Sven Alkalaj for Foreign Minister; - Slobodan Puhalac for Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations; - Dragan Vrankić for Minister of Finance and Treasury, at the same time as Deputy Chairman; - Božo Ljubić for Minister of Communications and Transport; - Slavko Nović za ministar of civilan posao; - Safet Halilović for Minister of ljudski pravo and izbjeglica; - Srđan Čolak za ministar of pravda; - Mije Sadović for Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Krešić; - Selm Cikotić for Minister of Defence; - Marina Igor Crnadko for Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs; - Filip Marin za zamjenik ministar za Foreign Trade and Economic Relations; - Fuad Kasumović for Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury; - Veselin Poljašević for Deputy Minister of the Minister for the Minister of Security and Minister of Security of the Ministers of the Ministers of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia. I ask this House today to confirm this Council of Ministers' meeting, given the obligations that lie ahead of the Council of Ministers for meeting the conditions for signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I hope that today we will have a democratic debate, that this council of ministers will be confirmed. I thank you. I want to say that, as chairman, I haven't had a day's break, that I haven't done what was expected in accordance with the procedure. I'm sorry that the appointment, my appointment was 27, which was the time of New Year's holidays and the first working day was 3rd, when I asked the leaders of the political parties to deliver my names. 7 They did so, and every time I received the report, I passed the same day on to addresses that were required to give their vision and, therefore, to give their confirmation that we could continue in the procedure. I hope that with this day we will finish this work and work in the interest of the BiH citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15981	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I ask the chairman of the Commission to prepare the election of the Council of Ministers: Do you need to say something on behalf of the Commission? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. If there are no reports, the honourable Messenger of Lagumdžija, then Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15982	Dear Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I'm sorry to be the first to report. I really thought that the President of the Commission would inform the House of issues which remained controversial on the Commission. Namely, there are a number of issues that may not have to be notified to the House because it was voted on, and it remained in the minority. Namely, what was the vote? One number of members of the Commission, to be precise, have asked that three members of the Commission do not declare ourselves on the Commission for two reasons at all. The first reason, because, as you heard from the Council of Ministers chairman, I think one really concise and very informative exposure when it comes to procedures, is that we have received. Namely, the chairman was appointed 27th, or confirmed by Dom 28th of last year. The Council of Ministers Act stipulates, Article 10(1) of the Council of Ministers Act, that within 35 days the chairman of the Council of Ministers should carry out the appointment of ministers and deputies. A very simple mathematical operation, which implies January 31st, as well as December, will show that 35 days have expired six days before the chairman of the Council of Ministers adopted a Decision appointing deputies and ministers. In other words, the mandate of the Council of Ministers president given to this house has expired. The second thing is that he did not run out of last term from last year, under which he as well as the entire Council of Ministers, which is now to be repeated, is acting as chairman. And there's no problem or discontinuity or anything. The chairman, therefore, was the position of a number of members of the commission, which is very clear in the law, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers should be re-appointed in the procedure prescribed by the law, for the simple reason that the legal deadline of 35 days has expired. The fact is, it says in the Commission's report, that some others in the decision-making chain, authorities, institutions, have done their job on time. But Article 10(1) of the Council of Ministers Act has broken this deadline. There is no need to remind myself of other situations in which the mandaters were appointed in this country, when they were deeply concerned, even in one very, even deeper 8 divided situation, a politically divided situation, when the deadlines given by law were greatly respected. The example works, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia when a time-renowned mandate under the name Brano Miljuš, did, on the 30th day, what was given to him at his disposal, at 12 o'clock out of the pocket only to honor the 30-day term because he knew that the next day was no longer a mandater because the deadline had expired. There was no reason here for Prime Minister Nikola Špirić to get his term of office from the presidency again, to be in Parliament again, much more so that this procedure, since he obviously does not give up on the old ministers, would go quickly and respect all the deadlines, and nothing would change, because we certainly have those people that we have here. But the basic thing would be satisfied, which is that the procedure is respected. Disrespecting the procedure is the first step towards delegating institutions that delegating themselves when they fail to comply with the procedure. So here is a violation of the Council of Ministers Act. If the matter were serious, he was speaking in favour of the fact that the chairman of his colleague's presidency had warned that the deadline had expired by law and asked them to renew the procedure, without doubting it and not delaying being the same mandater again, if there was still this political will, that is to say, there is no other case, so that it would not remain. That letter, as far as I know, was also sent to the College to point out this by the chairman. It's nothing that's appreciated. We didn't dispute, we didn't even come to a debate about whether these ministers were or were not alike, suitable, in our opinion, and so on. We didn't want to participate, three members of the Commission, we didn't want to take any further part in this debate, the more the President of the Commission as a compromise solution, thinking it was a compromise, said he would report on this... Parliament. True, Parliament has been reported in this opinion, but I expected it to still be chaired by the Commission. But there's no need to work, here's what I said briefly. So we have had a fundamental observation, and it is that this should be put back, that no one should be appointed now, but should be returned to the Presidency a message from this Parliament that we insist on legality. The reason why I find it very important in such a delicate situation is because only in BiH institutions is the principle that everything a couple of people agree on is fine, regardless of what may not be within the law or perhaps tomorrow and according to the Constitution. And that is why I believe that this Parliament must hold to every paragraph, every law, without the rest. Now, this isn't a matter of political outwitting, because whoever is, the presidency might change its mind, so let's name it, in the opinion of some others, don't give it to Bog, another man. So that's nothing to argue about. That's one thing. Secondly, the problem we had and which we asked the Commission to refer to the Central Election Commission for a very simple reason why we received the materials. I'm just going to make an example of one candidate: that the commission, apparently, the Election Commission, as they say, has decided to treat us on principle: so you can't believe your own eyes, trust us. We are for one candidate for the minister, as well as for all, so the Central Election Commission is for all to one – the truth of the chairman was correct, I am glad he said so – gave confirmation. You can choose any confirmations, that they are printed, only the name and last name of the change and the name of the father. The truth changes Mr. and Mrs., sir, so whoever, therefore, confirms it. Mr. Minister appointed fulfils all the necessary conditions prescribed by Article 10.c) of the Council of Ministers for appointment as Minister or Deputy Minister in the Council of Ministers. 9 Each of these men has received confirmation that this is okay. Unfortunately, according to the Commission, and fortunately for common sense, we were also supplied with documents that spoke of the data we had before us. Namely, I have here a minister who in his form stated that he was a member of the Supervisory Board of a private firm. Imagine, deafly be it, that some foreign or domestic minister of a country sits on the supervisory board of a private insurance or reinsurance company, and that is first normal, let alone by law. We don't have it under the law, but it seems normal. In fact, the Electoral Commission has provided us with a candidate, here we will take one example, since it is an eclectic example – Bog, who is the minister, whom we should take – here, for example, the foreign minister. We took that as an example on the Commission when we stayed in the minority. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15983	Please, just a minute, just a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15984	We already have candidates here for answers that haven't heard the question. It's, uh...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15985	Please, a little quieter and time please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15986	So the minister is right, and it's really correct of him, and it's fair, he wrote that he's in the Supervisory Board of One Insurance and that he has a monthly fee of 800 marks. Simple calculations get to 9,600 a year, and they don't need to be too smart. However, the Ministry of Finance, calling for a letter from the Election Commission, referred to the question whether, therefore, not only is this in itself eliminating but the law does not allow the minister to sit on the board of directors and receive the salary, and that the firm is operating with state institutions in excess of 5,000 marks. The VGT people replied that, what a strange coincidence, with the Human Rights and Refugee Ministry, the other minister but from the same party, had insurance of 9,500 marks, and that one finance ministry from... canton where, what a strange coincidence, the finance minister from the same party is for 40,000 marks, etc. So this is about an obvious violation of the law. What did the Electoral Commission tell us? She gave us confirmation that everything was fine, and they said they'd initiated the procedure. A procedure of what, what procedure? It's all clear as day! So here, as we're going to look today on this we're going to see, it looks like in this House if this is okay, then all most of what's agreed is fine. Then we don't need to, why do we need laws? Which we don't start by making decisions, by making a majority decision. Mr. Chairman, for these reasons, the three of us were against pleading at all on candidates. There's been an open conversation about them. We haven't reached the point of conversation with these candidates at all. That's why I suggest a simple conclusion that by respecting this, 10 we invite the Presidency to re-nominate the mandate and put this procedure in the legal framework, and that this... The Council of Ministers has naturally continued its work as successfully as so far, i.e. to be precise, in the same way as so far, is whether, in order not to open the controversy of success. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15987	The replica was reported by the esteemed chairman, Mr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15988	Thank you. Namely, I am obliged to say that the letter we received from the Bureau member has been considered and all the conditions, according to our Rules of Procedure and by law, in our opinion, that, after we have received the report from our commission, we put this on the agenda. Of course, there's a legal remedy for someone who thinks it's a violation of the law, to address the findings in this country, and to address it in a way that legal regulations allow and to determine whether it's by law or not. On the other hand, we are very concerned that a member of the predsjednišve is taking care of the legality relating to the formation of the Council of Ministers and, on the other hand, does not take into account the points of the Constitution concerning its duties, as regards the proposed financing of institutions, where it proposes non-constitutional points or advocates a budget that has items that do not comply with the Constitution. Likewise, as we have seen from yesterday's newspaper inscriptions, it advocates the abolition of some members who are legally, who are directly related to the Constitution, so that a member of the predsjednišve should take better care of the Constitution than the way Parliament works. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bahtić, then Dolić, and Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15989	Thank you. I welcome all present. I would like to say immediately that today I will vote in favour of the appointment of the deputy chairman, minister, deputy minister at the BiH Council of Ministers. Please, colleagues from the SDP, a little quiet. Although I am not satisfied with their current work – however, if it is known what ambience they were working on: globalisation, regional events, political ambience and various obstructions that come from the same center always, from a man who cannot possibly come into power, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija – I think they deserve it anyway. They've provided us with the paraphrasing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, if Bog does, we'll pass the laws, to sign this Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We should adopt Budget today. Tomorrow at the Council of Ministers meeting of the Fiscal Council and the Law on Salaries, I think this is the Council of Ministers strong... to do nothing more in this term, they have done much, and the opposition has had the opportunity to do all this when it was in the power of Mr Lagumdžija. Here, he now interprets the laws of the Electoral 11 Commission. I'm for... the law and there are professional people sitting. However, which one... this same Zlatko Lagumdžija was chairman of the Council of Ministers and Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15990	Please, we're talking about this Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15991	Well, that's exactly what I'm talking about. When his first member, the firm when he... worked... 500,000 marks, and over 5,000 marks conflict of interest. They've got accounts at Telecom. You laugh, Mr. Lagumdžija. And for that money, you opened bars in Bihac, in Switzerland, in London. This Council of Ministers, too, [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15992	Please allow me, allow me. Everyone has the right to say about the Council of Ministers and the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15993	This Council of Ministers has been burdened by a negative campaign led recently by certain media controlled by Lagumdžija. I say, I stand behind it. I'm always clear, concrete and direct. We listen to a variety of mourners, to God's shed of tears, regrets for BiH, and all lively are obstructing that there is no progress in BiH, it is blocking the European path, because it is only not a factor. He says a couple of people are making deals, so normally, the people gave them the legitimacy to negotiate. No, you don't. Your main problem is that you don't talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15994	Please, please let me talk to you about the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15995	I believe that the European path has no alternative, and for the last time, have we adopted here a resolution for a faster process in the European way, and that, which has just been proposed by the SDP Club and MP Halilović, so which I think... Come on, show it to work. Give these laws that come here, which are a condition for this European path and EU integration, to vote for these laws. It is the politics of the highest degree and the attempt to buy cheap political points. I think we have a path ahead that this authority is ready to address police reform, public service reform and co-operation with The Hague tribunal, to finally sign the agreement and make BiH a candidate for EU membership. I hope and believe in this composition, I believe in democracy, I believe in the will of the voters, the citizens of BiH, and they are the ones who decide who will lead them and who... will lead them into the European path. I hope the opposition, as I said last time, and the position, as it is in normal countries, 12 when it comes to higher interest, when it comes to the state, when it comes to the European path, will support these laws. That's what they said, and I hope so. In the end, I would end up: the new ministers, the old ministers, I want successful work, and we here, if Bog does, on the European path and we will not again pay attention to obstructions and those who, by the way, would like the citizens to enter power. Well, you see, that at the second point, these days, and the yogurt revolutions will go from the same centers of power. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of Security what he was doing about it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15996	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dolić, next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15997	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, is not far from realising that this Parliament, in the plan of its regular annual activities, can plan to confirm the appointment of the Council of Ministers each year in advance for at least two years to come. Today we have a rerun of the performance from just over a year ago when we confirmed the appointment of ministers and their deputies to the Council of Ministers for a term of four years. Even though it's the same play, the same actors and the same audience, like a year ago, the situation today is something, not to say, significantly different. If a year ago we did not have a reliable idea of how the Council of Ministers would operate and how to implement what was promised in the opening speech of the Council of Ministers, today the picture is much clearer and much more stringent. As far as memory serves, these benches on the left have been mostly empty in the past year, with exceptional cases when we confirm the appointment of the Council of Ministers or when Parliament is rarely addressed by senior officials of powerful states or international communities. There are few examples that a government has so much ignored this parliament, as the Council of Ministers has done over the past year. There are few examples of such ignoring obligations that BiH must fulfil on the European path as the Council of Ministers has done in this composition over the past year. Not a single step forward on the European path over the past year has been made except for the one for us, who have been walking for us by High Representative Lajcak and the EU. My colleagues and colleagues, today we have a request or a proposal to enroll students in the following year who have not passed any exams. What's worse and weirder than this is the fact that at the confirmation today we have the exact same names of candidates for ministers and deputy ministers we had a year ago. It is simply irresponsible, immoral and offensive, and this information can apply for the section Believe it or not. This is not appropriate, and I would say, politically wise, even in situations where the Council of Ministers has been perfectly functioning and responsible for doing its job without talking about 13 of our situation, so when the Council of Ministers has not taken a more significant step that would be of value in a year. I think it is unnecessary to waste words at all on what can be expected of this Council of Ministers in the next remaining term. I don't think it depends on them, but on their party heads, because the Council of Ministers' policy has long been led in Parliament and the Council of Ministers' Council where it should be, but on the political circles of parliamentary majority parties and party leaders of parliamentary majority parties. I will say frankly, although it is not my pleasure, the only thing I believe can change the situation and relations within the Council of Ministers is a more frequent and stronger twisting of the hands to the heads of the parliamentary majority or faster activation of the OHR's Major Crime Department. So, if a year ago, according to the appointment of this Council of Ministers, I had some kind of reserve, now that I've been collecting impressions and grading the work in the past year, since it's the exact same composition, I don't have those reserves anymore. As far as I'm concerned, to confirm this Council of Ministers and concept, first of all, on which it works, is to admit that we're blind to the eyes. The chair and the power are obviously the strongest chemistry in the fight for power, and only in that formula will this Council of Ministers be supported today by this home. Although I am not a supporter of such formulas, this Council of Ministers will have the support of both the Democratic People's Community and me, as MPs of this home, for exactly what counterpart Bahtić said, for everything that will do on the route and European road to BiH, by restoring trust among BiH citizens. It will not be possible to function in the present way but with more mutual trust, more teamwork, more faith in the European future and more respect, more correct attitude towards this home. If it continues with the current concept of the Council of Ministers' work, then I can say that Bog is helping us in this House and citizens with all of us in this room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15998	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u15999	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, guests from NGOs and the media, I do not tend to replicate Mr Dolić's presentation. He's very correct, but I really have to react to this story. This isn't a one-national state, this isn't a one-party state. How, then, it is possible to establish any relationship in any BiH institution if it is not this way. All the time, every item of the agenda is talked about how this isn't effective, and nothing is suggested that it might work in a country where, I said, where a one-national and where a one-party system or a multi-party system, but one is national. How is it possible in this BiH, when this is the composition of both peoples and citizens, how is it possible to choose the Council of Ministers differently? Here, suggest how possible! Is he with one of your MPs or, I don't know, from the opposition? If we want to complicate the situation in BiH, then this is the way, and it is said: the procedure of 35 days is not respected. Is it working days, is it national holidays, religious holidays, weekends, it doesn't say anywhere! What's the problem now: Is 35 days of work, work, work, like this, if we really want to confirm the Council of Ministers today and that people are going to work with us! 14 I ask my fellow workers, How long shall we complicate the situation on such matters that mean nothing? It's a waste of time. Find another congregational majority, an opportunity to form something else that might work as you think and we will withdraw. But, guys, it's not possible otherwise. Don't waste your time on that, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16000	Dear Ambassador Bahtić wanted a replica. Is it or? No, I don't. Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16001	Just for a little while. I thank you, Chairman. So, for the public. Dear MP Rifat Dolić reiterated three times that this has been done by the Council of Ministers in the past year, he says, nothing has done on the way... to European integration, so no activity has taken place in terms of signing, BiH's accession to European integration. So, that finding of his, the claim is arbitrary, it's incorrect. So that his, his claim doesn't match the truth. It is necessary to look at what the Council of Ministers has done recently and, therefore, to conclude, that the claim made by this respected representative/amendante Dolić is not correct. So this Council of Ministers did what it did, and that's why there's evidence. ... During... the work of this Council of Ministers, we have initialled the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, certain legal projects have been adopted: the Law on Higher Education, the CEFTA Agreement signed, etc. So there were a lot of things done that were one of the criteria, conditions for BiH's accession to European integration. Therefore, his claim is... arbitrary, incorrect and not responding, not responding to the real state.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16002	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dolić: counter.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16003	Let me say, first of all, I wasn't talking about the way this Council of Ministers was formed. I've been talking about the results that this Council of Ministers has won over the past year. As for what my colleague Remzi said, I think this is how I say it, to convince us that we are blind, that the citizens of this country are blind. Believe that what I said means 90% of the members of the parliamentary majority, but you know it's not a chance or a time... to talk about it in such a way and I really won't say anything else, but it's enough to ask and read in the means of informing what the results are and it's enough concrete to put them on paper, and then all about it is said and said.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16004	Thank you. Next up for discussion, honourable Ambassador Bahtić. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16005	Through the last sentence, they say, in the means of information, but by what means, they are, not everyone, dear. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16006	Dear Ambassador Novaković, first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16007	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, ministers, deputies, after some replicas, I was thinking whether or not to report for the discussion. In fact, some colleagues have accused us from the opposition that we are guilty of no faster progress: and we are 12 and 30 positions. Well, I guess 12 of us couldn't have prevented 30 MPs from doing their job with the Council of Ministers in extreme seriousness and responsibly. A fellow Jovičić would also like to prevent us from discussing. Well, it would be best if we didn't discuss empty stories. I think it would really be best if we chose this Council of Ministers without discussion. But here, when I've called, I'll just say a few sentences. First of all, I would like to congratulate the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I think it's courage to take on such a council of ministers and, of course, deserves all the congratulations. However, I resented his indiscipline when he resigned and said he would continue to work in other conditions and with other people. But it's not the subject of today's chairmanship of the Council of Ministers. But what I said, congratulations, I really honestly think he's a brave man. In fact, this Council of Ministers' assembly has shown that it is very, very difficult to function, that it has been terribly difficult to make very simple decisions and that is why I think it is brave to try again what has proved to be very difficult or even unsuccessful. The fact that there is no Council of Ministers chairman now, I guess is a sign of support for ministers and deputy ministers. It would be good if he were here too, so if he could at least listen to this discussion. But good. You see, the chairman of the Council of Ministers presented a chronology, a sequence of events that could have been presented by the Secretary General of the Council of Ministers, and it would have been more appropriate for him to state what was said. I expected the Council of Ministers to present some reasons or at least one reason for each minister to think that together with them he could fulfill what he told us when he was putting up with the exposés, means when we discussed him again. I guess that would be normal for us to realize that, here, and with the same people, but on very different grounds, we're working, and that wouldn't be a problem. So not the same people's problem, the problem is certain relations in the Council of Ministers which have shown themselves and which have surfaced after the resignation of the Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. I must say that if – and the logic would be if it were – then the vice-president, Mr Sadović, gave up what he was saying about the chairman here from this pay phone, and he probably doesn't think what he was saying today, and then he reacted emotionally to a very difficult situation. Otherwise, I don't see why Mr. Špirić would suggest Mr. Sadović again if he stayed with the views he made here after this speaker. 16 Of course there were many other statements, writings, etc., which I would not speak of. What I'm worried about is that today we won't choose a minister. Namely, the last time we discussed a request to resolve the foreign minister, all RS lawmakers voted in favour of his resolution, including SNSD MPs. So today, SNSD MPs will not support the foreign minister and man will not have an entity majority. And that's what concerns me now when we form a Council of Ministers without such an important ministry as the Foreign Ministry. And in order not to take the floor later, I would like to congratulate the ministers, the deputy ministers and wish them more successful work than it was in the previous session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16008	Dear Ambassador Kalabić: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16009	Although I meant it along with the discussion to say, don't slow down the right, and I think it's a good thing that everyone around this agenda point today, according to their position, is saying everything they have but according to their position. It's not the position of all of us, and that's quite clear. Someone's got a bigger responsibility, someone smaller, someone's got a smaller comodity, someone bigger. It's very easy for people from the SDS to talk, since they have the greatest comodity. Here's why. We would never, and that would be good if we could compare things comparatively, and we would never get into a situation because, despite their great wishes, they would never have or will have a chairman of the Council of Ministers. Even though they've worked hard for years and they're nowhere near the chance of ever having it and it's hard to compare it, and then they have this comedian. Knowing that it will never be, then they can set very high standards. Knowing in our RS that in the next 27 years there will be no power, too, I can provide myself with that kind of commodity, so they can say, very easily, and my God. These are the high rankings that we believe should be reached but believed, and what the opposition is giving us as a task, it is up to us to achieve. And everything they once promised, what we're trying to do today, we're gonna have to do again, no matter what we think of us. And I would like this committee: you know, you're here, you'll never be a government, and you can say whatever you want, because no one will ever ask you why you didn't do it. From the time I remember that position around Mr. Honorable Terzić, and those resignations, the return and, I don't know, the treatment of someone's position, I wouldn't compare it with this Council of Ministers and the fact – and later in the discussion, I will tell about the range of all those who are critics, they have the right – but I don't think it's necessary to forget about the reform of higher education and not forget the achievements in the field of sports reform, what we've done here. After all, the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, that we are one step ahead, liked, the parfait, that we are one step at a time, and later we will talk about who prevents it. And someone said about the views that the authorities and leaders of the ruling political parties are taking positions. Maybe that's what I like, maybe in a way I don't quite like it, but they have this legitimacy, they have this support here they have, but it would be interesting where the opposition goes by the attitudes. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16010	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16011	It would be very interesting where certain opposition leaders go for their views! Different geographical areas and different places. If there's any need, we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16012	Dear Ambassador Novaković: reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16013	It would have been really good if I had realized in this replica what the replica was on. Actually, what's the problem with my discussion, so the SNSD took offense. In fact, I didn't slow down the chairman at all, I even congratulated the man on his courage. I was talking about SNSD attitudes, so he was afraid we wouldn't choose a minister. I guess it's a replica, but since there's no serious reason for that, then let's move on to something else. Of course, it would be good for us all to meet, and we don't have to be, if the SDS had the Chairman's Council of Ministers in '98. until 2000 and that the SNSD did not receive the Council of Ministers for nothing but because it is the turn to belong to one of the Srbin. And of course that the SNSD, with respect for the election result, has won it and I don't think they could have found a better candidate than the current Council of Ministers. I honestly think so, and I don't think anyone would do this with as much patience as he does, but, right now, he's not the subject of choice. So it would be good to replicate specific attitudes. Then I could respond differently to the replica. But here, so it would be good to say, gentlemen, is everything okay, okay, it's over, all ministers have support? I will be a very happy man after today, after this session, because we are going to the EU.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16014	The replica was reported by distinguished President Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16015	Here, I want to take advantage of my second right to replicate and replicate the honourable MP Novaković, since the SNSD was never at the beginning of introducing rules here. You know well that the rule in this house is to vote in a package on all ministers and deputies. We're just following the way the SDS has worked so far and voting the same way in the package. When that way of voting, or business or legal, is changed, then we will determine each minister and assistant separately. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go, second replica. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16016	Well, that's why I'm sorry, but here's a chance to take advantage of what... I'm right. Indeed, Mr. Novaković, I respect you, but least of all, it is an insinuation that I would forbid or intend to do something like you. I have neither, nor the possibility, nor the desire. And it is good to hear your views but I ask you again why we waste so much time when it is impossible for the SDS to be most parliamentary and for your ministers to be in the Council of Ministers. That's impossible. So, get out of fact and be pragmatic and realistic about what's possible right now. Secondly, it is true that we have voted three times for Mr. Sven Alkalaj to replace him and today, if Mr. Alkalaj himself had voted, and we can run countless times every session to replace him but are we not clear about the fact that this is impossible because we will never get support from the Federation party. So let's roll the dice and see what's possible, what's not. And I ask you to take all the time you want, but this is just a delay in your time when you're as clear to everyone as we are. Another thing, don't push the SNSD into that story about us choosing Mr. Sven Alkalaj today. Well, of course, the Council of Ministers is elected in the package and we have nothing against it. This parliamentary majority works on this kind of relationship, just as I said in the first part, is not one-national and is not a single-party state that we just say will be one people or be one party. Only these relationships are possible. The way they are, they can't be any different. So please take your word for it, but we're wasting our time. This will be voted. I'm dissatisfied with a lot of things like you, but tell me what's the alternative to not being like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16017	Thank you. Let's move on. The following came to the discussion, honourable MP Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16018	Thank you. I want to say, first of all, that we at the SDP Club are not happy that the state is in the state it is, and we're not happy that we have this agenda point at all today. And we, regardless of whether we were in opposition, are, and not only in a position, are citizens of this country, and we here have our families and the future we build in this country and no one normal can be happy when this country is not going well. And BiH, unfortunately, is not going well. If it had been under the Council of Ministers programme proposed by Mr Špirić and supported by the governing structure, these six parliamentary parties that make up the majority in this House, we would certainly not have this agenda point today. We would today discuss the results of this Council of Ministers after one year, as is the case in most other countries. Instead of the realization and the report on the programme, we today have a situation that for almost three months we have a permanent crisis, and some will rightly say it is not just three months but from the day of formation to today. Today, the opposition expected what every opposition party in every civilised country expects, which is that the chairman of the Council of Ministers makes one reference to his programme, which he has offered to this Parliament on that elaborate which he has presented to us - were specifically in charge of individual ministries - and to see what the results of the implementation of this programme are. I think that's how it should have started, if we are to take the Council of Ministers and this Parliament seriously. Unfortunately, this has not been done and much has not been done by the programme, although the chairman of the Council of Ministers has not told us why this has not been done, which are the reasons and who are responsible for why what has been drawn out, not by the opposition, but by the parliamentary majority and the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers themselves, has not been realised. Not to talk about it now that it would be good if the chairman of the Council of Ministers had made perhaps a reference to the implementation of the Platform signed by over half a million citizens of this country where they had also given some deadlines and some tasks that would be desirable for the next four years. Of course, there's nothing to it either. Today, the parliamentary majority needs to renew its mandate to this Council of Ministers but the parliamentary majority as well as the opposition have not heard the reasons why it should be done today. Where did this agenda point come from today? What was removed from the reasons why the chairman of the Council of Ministers himself resigned three or four months ago? Have these reasons been removed from being the chairman of the Council of Ministers himself and that these members of the Council of Ministers are renewing their mandate? As far as we know, they're obviously not. Who should be responsible in this country for one failed year? Someone said the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was initialled. At least it was initialled because it was the result of some work by the Council of Ministers. We all know that this is a gift from the international community, a given hand to finally take some more serious forms in BiH. Of course, we can also talk about the responsibility and responsibility of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, but also about certain ministers, but the truth is, we cannot go beyond the fact that this Council of Ministers has largely been remotely managed. They are not ministers who have worked on their consciences and thoughts, most often working on the directives of their party leaders. We are today not choosing any new Council of Ministers' meeting, we simply reaffirm the same composition of the Council of Ministers, which did not give the expected results in the past year. If they're going to give in this one, we can analyze this one. But anyone who votes in favour of this Council of Ministers today votes and gives his positive assessment of the one-year work of this Council of Ministers, and it would not be good for all those who vote and positively assess the work of this Council of Ministers to criticise and present their dissatisfaction against the work of this Council of Ministers today and tomorrow. We pointed out a year ago, and today we can do it again, some things that at the beginning say that this Council of Ministers will not achieve the expected results in this year. We have this series of obviously unqualified and incompetent ministers for individual ministries. We have an unnatural alliance between individual parties without what the common denominator wants done. We have a record, and we see it on a number of other issues, that there is no... joint program. Not to mention that we should re-elected a Council of Ministers in which, for example, there is no room for any woman, etc., etc. 20 How to vote again for this Council of Ministers, let's say, and by chance you come from Tuzla, where a BiH citizen Ilija Jurišić has been imprisoned in Belgrade for more than nine months, while the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Human Rights have done almost nothing to ensure that this man enjoys the rights he deserves. Not to mention how certain ministers in that Council of Ministers are seeking the citizenship of other foreign states. That I don't talk about how they travel abroad, and that they don't agree with those with whom they need to be reconciled, etc. However, the truth is, it should be said that these ministers mirrored, however, the leaders of their ruling, or ruling parties, and that they mainly did nothing but do what they had been approved of. Not to mention that my colleague from the club, Selim Bešlagić, seems to me, at the last session asked me – I don't believe he got the answer and I don't believe he'll get it – as it is possible that the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers can see him almost every week at a session of the government of the RS or the Assembly of the RS, which is not disputed to be there too if... time, but you can never see him at a meeting of the Federation or of the Federation of BiH Parliament, and then you wonder who he is chairman of the Council of Ministers. In the end, it could be said for a long time but I think it is a matter of political responsibility whether today to support this Council of Ministers which, despite all these assessments, you can replicate as much as you want, which the opposition stands for here, has not met what the parliamentary majority's mission was and what was the projection of the Council of Ministers itself more than a year ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16019	Thank you. First, the esteemed Milica Marković, then the Bahtić replica. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, he had twice. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16022	I answered the line. I didn't answer for the discussion today because I felt that we didn't have a great need to discuss the proposal of the old one – the new Council of Ministers because it is already known, and we know how many these ministers and deputy ministers worked, but I really had to report for the replica because I have the impression that the representatives of individual political parties here, primarily from the opposition, would find it appropriate today to ask ministers how they matched the colors, I don't know, the suits, the ties and the rest while they were ministers at the Council of Ministers. So anything that comes to mind, they'd like to ask today a question to these people here, by minimising and demeaning what has really been done so far, and what 21 has done with the great effort that you've mentioned it has been done. And I think the Council of Ministers has been working under a lot of difficult conditions and circumstances, but I want to tell you the following. It is neither a place today nor an opportunity to present your political frustrations here, because you are not in this context and in this story and because, however you say whatever you say, however you choose today in relation to the Council of Ministers' proposal, you do not bear the responsibility that will be borne by the political parties who will vote today and who will vote that this Council of Ministers is still working on that task that it has. As for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bećirović, just before you respected him that he appeared in Parliament of the RS and that he is staying there as if he were not just the chairman of the Council of Ministers, so I think it is, at least, incorrect and inappropriate. Do you think it is a sin for the chairman of the Council of Ministers to come to the RS Parliament or to go to the Federation parliament if he invites him. I believe he went on call and was asked to come and attend certain sessions. If the president of the Federation invites him, I believe he will respond there. And I think that the opposition today has... its own far-fetched other jobs than to take care, that is, to honor and what is not... for observations and for burdening people who have really spent more or less of their effort, energy and time to contribute, so, if nothing else, you should paraphrasing the Stabilisation Agreement and... joining them and say that this is their great success, although I know that the opposition today would have, let's say, that the Council of Ministers signed BiH's accession to the EU, you would say today - well it's not enough, we want the standard as in Switzerland now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16023	Just a little bit of a deal. So, Honorable Ambassador Bahtić had one discussion and one replica so that he... (?) No microphone turned on No, no, it's not. Please, after Mr. Lagumdžija, he had a discussion and he didn't replicate to anyone and he has another replica. After that, they asked for a replica of Honourable MP Novaković and honourable MP Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16025	Here, you see, the SDP gentlemen would forbid me even if I spoke. Well, this isn't the Central Committee, gentlemen. Well, you see, I'm right, I had one replica, I had one discussion. Well, you've learned, you can't possibly come to yourself that by tearing down the Berlin Wall that democracy has come to these places. What's wrong with you? Do you want to shut your mouth here, what's wrong with you? 22 Let me just say, sir, that Mr Bećirović wrote, says: a crisis from the day of formation. It's not like that, but, gentlemen dear, here you see, in much more developed countries where democracy, Italy, Belgium, is at the highest level, so there's a crisis, so no one is doing anything, it's moving on. He says nothing's been done. It's been a year. It's been a waste of years for you. You want a crisis and you're dreaming somewhere to jump into power. You can't do that. Wait for the election, so when the elections come, if the people will, I'll be the first to congratulate you, take off your hat, and I'll never want to bring you down if the people will. Says the individual mirror. I am proud to have mirrored those individuals whose people give so much trust, and I would be ashamed to be led by a man who gets 50,000 less votes each election. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16026	Dear Ambassador Novaković, pa Kalabić, pa Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16027	So you see how some colleagues replicate, I'd give them the right to replicate three times. You see, dear colleague, I really don't have any frustration or desire for the SDS to participate in power. I didn't even say one bad word about any minister who was proposed here, and I was careful to talk about their work, because I'm not in a position to appreciate their work because I don't work with them, but you do. For that reason, I didn't say a word about them, and about your trust, I guess you said, if you said, you'd vote for some ministers because they're in the package. That's what you said, that's not what I said -- that you're going to vote what's in the package -- but you said, so if they weren't in the package, you wouldn't. Here, my goal of my discussion was that of yours, not your relationship with the ministers. I think I did what I wanted.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16028	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić: replica second.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16029	Now it's the hardest thing for me, and it's really a shame for Denis to spend this second replica. It's hard for me, I tried, and now Mr. Novaković has made me remember: he honors us with the other ministers, and I remember the pain of the SDS that he doesn't know who their ministers are in the previous Council of Ministers, nor that he can ask for their shift, nor have people asked them anything. And the whole term was, in fact, in writing whether or not theirs, they were not able to deal with others. And that's how it was. I remember trying to shift my ministers, a failed shift by the SDS, when that didn't work out. _________(?) 23 [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah. Mr. Kovač, was he, wasn't he, I don't know. And as for Mr. Bećirović's discussion, I have to be rude to say that Denis is lying because, as far as I know, the chairman, watch out, says everyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16031	Please treat your colleagues with respect.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16032	So please, then the highlight of the insolence, he says: Every week, the chairman of the Council of Ministers of Pictures at the RS government's meetings. And what I know, that he wasn't, that he was never in this mandate at the Republika Srpska government session, he wasn't, he wasn't. If it was in, by, what was said, by invitation, let it say where he didn't go by invitations, well, if there were them from the National Assembly or, I don't know, I don't know, Parliament of the Federation and all the others. But what's the problem? It's not a problem that -- here, to reduce a little bit, to say -- it's not telling the truth, it's saying, in accordance with his philosophy, that Mr. Chairman was on enemy territory, that it's not part of our country. Why would he have the right to be there, you know what he was once? There's a problem, there's a problem. And that he was, he was on BiH territory, whose chairman he is. And I can talk about why he wasn't where they called him, and he wasn't, and he wasn't. And then someone has to say that -- we've been calling the chairman, I guess, with respect and who can call him, but he's still the chairman of the Council of Ministers. As for the relationship with women, Mr. Bećirović, I agree. It's always a problem, but I would remind you that the SDP has mixed up three women, three excellent ambassadors in Western Europe, three career diplomats. How'd he get them? I had a chance to be welcomed, as top diplomats. In one day, they were swept by the so-called. SDP female lover and brought! You want me to say who and what half, if we need to talk about it? I'm sorry, I have to say for the first time in Parliament, I'm sorry that these women have been removed, because I've had the opportunity to meet the career diplomats who worked for this country who worked for this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16033	Replication time.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16034	And that's where the relationship turned out, the relationship of the SDP. I'm asking you, I'm going to take a minute, because I'm going to give up the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16035	You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16036	Because I know it is difficult for the SDP to fall in what Nikola Špirić has done for BiH, in the past period, more than the entire SDP since its founding and I know it is difficult to fall. And, I know that the ship leading 24 Nikola Špirić towards the lighthouse, you are trying on the high seas to break down the philosophy that the neighbor dies a cow, by the philosophy of vanity that is abnormal in these areas and you are, to that extent, trying to catch passengers on board, to throw them into the sea, that it does not lead him to that port. I only congratulate him at this moment on the courage to lead this ship with such passengers, although I'm not sure if anyone will succeed, in front of the port itself, to break down and say no more ships.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16037	Dear Ambassador Bećirović: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16038	Well, you see, the basic difference between me and counterpart Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16039	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16040	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16041	Okay. I'm glad the chairman warned him not to throw. Now let me move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16042	Oh, and you're just...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16043	So the difference between me and Mr. Kalabić is in the next. Mr. Kalabić found it appropriate, found it necessary to replicate to me some allegations. It's his right. I didn't find any valid reason to replicate to him. The man was totally talking about some things that no one said or mentioned, and that's his right. If I wasn't talking this part of the termology lie, etc., I don't think I'm thinking of going down on that coaching termology. In this BiH Parliament, we should still keep our dignity here. So it's a bit of a surprise replica, I really don't feel the need to replicate these allegations because not one particular fact has been looked back, but he's been inventing, constructing what he's already thought of, and that's his right. I can only say that I, as well as the SDP Club, will make my views very clear and loud. That those views don't like you in the parliamentary majority, that's your problem. You have the right to disagree. And otherwise, I think these huge replicas are totally counterproductive. We've got a chance, here's our attitudes. I haven't heard a single line after someone convinced someone of something, after some replica. So let's get back to the agenda, let's take this Parliament a little bit of respect and let's respect each other as much as possible, and not introduce some terminology that is not like this Parliament, and in this sense I call on Mr Kalabić, if possible, that he behaves in this Parliament as well. 25 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16044	Thank you. Is anyone else in need of a replica or should we move on? Since it is not for replica, the next one has been signed up by Honorable Ambassador Okolić and Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16045	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, members, chairman, presidents of NGOs, the international community, the means of information and dear guests, since the first discussion is me as a man and I believe that each of us will be more happy when the appointment of the Council of Ministers is completed than if the procedure is not completed... does not take place because the appointment of the Council of Ministers gives one particular political and other stability in one country. I, therefore, want this country to receive the Council of Ministers and I am sorry that there have been these particular problems when it comes to the Council of Ministers because, finally, they turned out to be unnecessary, because the appointment of the same composition confirms it. I was thinking of saying that this Council of Ministers... can't have a questionable fact that it didn't do anything, or, it's not true, it's done a lot. However, he could probably have done a lot more if there were no specific problems and trestles within the ministers' composition. I support this with evidence that we have here and in the Assembly about this controversy, various media statements, inscriptions, speech behind the pay phone, etc., and it is evident that they have had some problems among themselves and it is probably that, and it is my guess and whoever wants to reason normally had to influence their own way of working and their efficiency. I don't really have anything against any minister here, and I'm not going to challenge, I think, that I'm challenging any of them individually. Anyone proposed here by the ministers and the deputies, I am convinced, as a man, that he can perform the role he was proposed for today, or for which he is likely to be elected today. So he can be sure... But what is it that scares me? I'm afraid of what was behind us, that we've experienced certain public traits. The media, the people, the citizens, etc., know the full public, and now I'm afraid that they may not have such problems in this system again and that they will not satisfy their work. They can all be ministers, maybe, but someone can be in this composition, someone can be in some other composition, but it seems to me, showing this so far that, perhaps, in this composition, there will be some problems, and that's why I'm expressing my anxiety. I am still expressing this before on the Committee for Preparation for the appointment of the Council of Ministers we discussed some of these, here to say, the dilemma and my question to the chairman – which was correct and he answered correctly – would it be his wish and could he perhaps be more successful if he could get at least two names to choose, not to say how much now. It would be even more successful to choose a team with which he could lead this BiH towards a better one. He said, if it wasn't for him to deny me, that he would love it, that it would be good, and that it probably wouldn't be possible because, here, the policy that is currently represented here. Well, I wish he could have been the man who chose his 26th team and then he'd be more responsible, and he'd have more support than me then, maybe even full support. I'm so afraid he's taken over probably one part of the risk under pressure to keep the same composition of the Council of Ministers. I congratulate him again and I wish, if they are elected today and I have no doubt that there will be much happiness in this Council of Ministers, which they will be elected to because their success is success and BiH. But I had to express my suspicion, and I had to express my concern here if it would happen that we might experience again in the media behind this pay phone or, God forbid, we'll have a debate on relations in the Council of Ministers in this assembly. I don't want that to happen anymore. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16046	Thank you. First Deputy Chairman of the Honorable Parliament Lozančić, so let's take the turn: Erić, Dokić, Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16047	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, although I haven't thought about reporting today for debate on this agenda point, I think, there are needs for several reasons. First, we are discussing again today the decision to confirm the vice-president and members of the Council of Ministers who should meet both our wishes and expectations and expectations for all BiH citizens in the coming period. I have not heard this in the course of the debate so far, and many have even confirmed this in their discussions, no concrete objection by the Council of Ministers' chairman to the choice of any individual in the future and current composition of the Council of Ministers. I have not heard any particular objection to the work of the Council of Ministers so far. I heard surprising – even from the opposition, if it is true, and I join it – congratulations to both the chairman and the Ministers' Council and for having been and for accepting that they would also be members of our Council of Ministers in the future. The way we look at our Council of Ministers is the most similar to the relationship between professors who are like MPs and students who are like ministers in the Council of Ministers, so I've got one story going on between two university professors, in which one university professor complains fellow students and says, "You see, you're sick of these students, they're no good, none of them are there." There's no perspective from them. And the other one, a little wiser, tells him -- yes, dear colleague, it's just us, remember what we were like as students. Yes, we've had much better professors. ... The members of the Council of Ministers are not to blame, neither is this convocation nor possibly some other convocation, which lives in the country as it is, that they live in the relationships as they are, that they live in the circumstances as they are, but that's the case. And they really need to be congratulated for accepting, despite all the unfavourable circumstances, the unfavourable conditions for the work of any Council of Ministers, any government, however, have accepted the challenge that, I would say, almost impossible conditions of trying to lead this ship towards the port that we all expect. And it would be good if congratulations were sincere, if they were really congratulations, if they weren't, I don't know, I don't know, anything else, not to say what, that we really give this Council of Ministers support, but true support. To help him all together means that this ship really leads where we at least declare that we want to. 27 I think we will then have a lot more and moral right to criticize them. It doesn't mean that we will be against them if we give them reasonable criticism but good constructive criticism can help them to give our common goals because I don't see that the Council of Ministers has any goals, and we, Kobajabg, here are some other goals. I think these people's goals here and here are exactly the same. The question of how much we sometimes manage to achieve these goals, so it's easier for us because, fortunately or unfortunately, they don't have the right to replicate us and they don't have the right to judge us. We have been chosen directly by the citizens to evaluate them. If they had the right and the ability to evaluate our work, believe that they might have a lot more reason for criticism than we do for them. But, so here's the situation as it is. I do not want to talk about the effects of this Council of Ministers and the obstructions it faces, but the situation is because for the first time in the Post-Dayton BiH, we had a new year in the presidency. It's not their fault that he didn't come to us in time and that we didn't consider him. So let's not blame them for their irresponsibleness or for what they're not guilty of. So, they tried, they did, and so on. Today... we will have the opportunity to adopt this budget, perhaps at the earliest in post-Dayton BiH, but it is up to us. It's not their fault again if we don't adopt it today. And a lot of other things that they've suggested to us,...or what they suggest, let's not crash at any cost just to achieve some petty political goals. So, I want, here's why I answered,...not wanting to replicate to anyone, invite all of us, means that indeed, if and how truly we are ready to realize the goals that all BiH citizens expect, today we confirm this Council of Ministers' meeting, but at the same time, that we do not start to tear it down immediately from tomorrow, rather than help it come to the goals we all hope for together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16048	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Erić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16049	Gentlemen, the chairman, colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, deputy ministers, guests, media representatives, I will just... remind me of one fact and it usually brings me to the story of how we approach this vote today. We were witnessing that certain ministers were obstructing the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and that the team acted as a fragmented orchestra. It's a fact one. So we had a crisis that made promises to move forward. I expected today to have an analysis of the past period, that we would be given a programme of individual ministries and ministers. So we are definitely voting through the programme on both ministers and their visions of how this country continues to lead. So this is all epic character -- it'll be fine, we'll do it, we signed a Stabilisation Agreement. But also whether all the ministers in the future, when we have to make bill proposals and some solutions, when the Stabilisation Agreement is signed, will it mean supporting the project or will we have a crisis again. It's my dilemma, and I really think that we should think about it in the future, because it's too late now, and it seems to me that we've had the perfect opportunity to see how we're going to work these three, 28 years, i.e. As gentlemen see this period of three years, that we do not fight, that we do not conflict. Thank you, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16050	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16051	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I thought I wasn't answering, thinking this would go much faster than it does, but here, allow a few, few of my observations. First of all, I have to say that I am not pleased that we have a new one – the old Council of Ministers' meeting in full terms, but believe that this is the result of a political power relationship in the country... whose members will be members of the Council of Ministers. I know that the chairman also wanted to make appropriate changes and you know well that there was one variant in the public that the parties participating in the assembly majority and who suggest that ministers propose two candidates, so that the chairman could choose, in some way, the composition of the Council of Ministers, but that it was not accepted, that there was no political will. Also, you know there was no political will to change the congregation's majority. So in such a relationship of power, it was either to choose or to continue to prolong the crisis, that the Council of Ministers worked in a technical meeting with limited possibilities or to come to this solution and to give the Ministers a chance again and which they were before. I expect this time out, which the ministers and the chairman have had after the president's resignation, to be useful and here, according to some of the results that have come, whether they are the result of the changed relationship between international representatives, this or that, but we cannot dispute that significant shifts have been made since Mr Špirić's resignation in this period so far. So I hope that the others, here in that, I say, have matured enough, and that this second half, which hopefully will last longer, will be significantly more successful than it has been so far and that it will be easier to come to an agreement, with a note about, which is also just before colleagues, Lozančić, said, here at the congregation majority is as much responsibility as on them, whether they will get support and whether there will be better co-operation between the Council of Ministers and the assembly majority. Here is the responsibility of the MPs who make up the congregation majority. All in all, here's what I have to say to my colleague Novaković, but without any thought of irony, rather than honesty. kolega Špirić deserves congratulations for being accepted, in these circumstances, to take over the Council of Ministers, especially in the same system, and this should be appreciated in the coming period by all those who are going to press this green button today and vote the Council of Ministers. But I'd like to look back on something that was at the beginning of this discussion, this debate, and that's breaking these legal deadlines. The fact that it exists but the fact that we have in our legislation, which regulates this issue, is completely unregulated. You see, there are three 29 instances that were supposed to fit in within 35 days: the chairman of the Council of Ministers, SIPA and the Central Election Commission. And believe me, they all did a job in their own time, but it obviously didn't take care that all those deadlines had to fit into this deadline. This is our chance here to raise the question of harmonising these legal provisions that regulate this issue. Careful, the CEC itself had a 30-day deadline and it had finished its job before the deadline was completed, and previously it had to be two instances to do their job. So it's not possible to respect anything that's possible. Yes, but if everyone respects their deadlines, and behaves properly within those deadlines, then this 35-day deadline is impossible to respect, and that is why the commission for these elections has suggested this home to enter the procedure, the election procedure. I also have to say that the CEC confused us with some data, which was also talked about by a colleague, a colleague of Lagumdžija, especially in the light of the fact that in the first election a year ago in the same case – as Mr Alkalaj's case here – man was completely eliminated. You know it's about Zoran Tešanović. And not only has he been eliminated from the possibility of being elected but a procedure has been initiated: a matter of responsibility, etc., etc. There's really a confusing situation here. I, at the very least, expect, if the CEC has come up with some new knowledge and then gave light to this minister's election, that very soon, right after this election, it will undo all those decisions that applied to Zoran Tešanović. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16052	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Hadži Jovan Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16053	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here, I feel the need to say a few words about the election of the Council of Ministers, for a simple reason, given that it is the same composition, means old and new. And when this Council of Ministers was elected, I was not for him, not as people, but as a clear advice that should work and respect the Constitution, to respect the laws, to propose laws to this parliament, which are in line with the Constitution and BiH and the entity constitutions from where we come from. If I was right not to vote, it is during this period of work until today, here, when I expected some new candidates for the minister's positions to be found, what this Council of Ministers boasts, is that they passed quite a law, initialled the agreement. True, they passed the law of what was imposed by the High Representative, made a crisis of one, and confused the people that the people had come to this extent that at one point the people could think of anything that might happen, that at the end of the same set, of the Presidency, would suggest again, here, the same person, and the same person proposed, normally thanks to political parties, the same people, which tells me it won't be a long time, because of the public we're going to have to come back into the same crisis, probably, difficult because then we're going to get to the wall and we won't be able to move on. They will not be able to deceive the people further, for they will have to be told either one nation or another. The first steps of what was not to be done when it came to respecting the Constitution to break the Constitution. Here, counterpart Kalabić said here: We have passed the Law on Higher Education, High Education, etc., so I don't know, and the decision of the High Representative which 30 was related to the Law on Ministrys, Rules of Procedure, etc. All this was brought against the Constitution, here I will say, the RS and the BiH Constitution. All this can be brought together, but when it is agreed and agreed, those who need to agree in accordance with the Constitution. That it's going to happen and that we're going to say this in the morning we won't, and we will this afternoon. I've had examples of a series on the commission, unfortunately, of my colleagues, who at one point say they're transferring powers I don't want to support it, and here, when we get to this parliament, hands up, that parliamentary majority raises their hands and... then it's not a transfer of authority. The law on agriculture that is on the agenda – and we passed a series of such laws similar here, I did not participate in this because I think the Constitution should be respected and the Constitution should be amended and brought into line and then all these reforms – there was a letter from, here, and the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia say: this is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and a series of other laws have been transposed which are today-day in the constitutions that are in the intelligences of the entities, and that they are not in the competences, as regards the Constitution, and the state level of BiH. Today, after this, when the Council of Ministers is elected, they will be chosen normally and elected. It won't worry me, it should worry the majority, it won't be my responsibility, it'll be the responsibility of the majority. We have the law, these two laws regarding the police, a new explanation as it is and a story one goes public, and the other one happens here on the ground. So I say, there's a time coming when we're coming to hit our heads against the wall and there's no place to go, and the public is going to be looking for a responsibility: What is it? For this reason – what is said in one continuity, the other is done, the decisions of political parties that make up the majority, and continues at the same pace to work – I will remain today, in my position: I am not for this work of the Council of Ministers. Not as people, I think it's behind that political party, because we're going to be in a position where everyone's responsibility will be sought. But, my God, we can't all answer, those who choose this Council of Ministers will answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16054	Thank you. Next for discussion: Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16055	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I've been thinking whether I should speak to the Council of Ministers today at all in this confirmation of the appointment. I was determined not to speak, but one thing made me say something, and I want to bring it here in front of all of you, and maybe, let's share our thoughts on the subject. So, I'm not going to talk about these reports, the reasons, any disturbances, so I'm going to get rid of it. I'm going to talk about something that might, perhaps, be called a gradual devaluation of the Council of Ministers' position in BiH, which I note is evident in... the past period. I think it's a very dangerous tendency because, when we passed the law in 2002, I was one of those who was in front of his party, along with representatives of all other parties, participated in the draft of that law, when we established nine positions in the Council of Ministers, and I know that this Council of Ministers was positioned practically as a state government. There's a sentence that says he's doing government affairs, in law, and that he's supposed to be the engine of all reforms in BiH. 31 When we tried in 2005 and 2006 to reform the BiH Constitution and those who were in favour of this reform and those who were against this reform did not dispute the fact that the Council of Ministers must play an even more prominent role in the Bosnian Herzegovina society and that its position as leader of reform processes in our country must be strengthened, the leader who will lead this country along with other institutions to Europe and NATO. So the Council of Ministers is according to this idea – I say the idea was not disputed either by those who advocated constitutional reform, nor by those who challenged it – to be positioned practically as a pillar or as the head of BiH's executive authority. I am afraid that lately this trend and this desire and, apparently, the need of a Bosnian-Herzegovina society for such an institution has been a little weak and that the position and role of the Council of Ministers in the Bosnian-Herzegovina society is slightly devalued. I, of course, will not accuse the men of the Council of Ministers. I'm glad that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, as head of this orchestra, is present. I want him specifically, so in front of him, and the other members of the Council of Ministers to say that this is the fact that he didn't stay undetected and that maybe this is the most important thing in the whole story. I will not say that the people who lead and make up the existing Council of Ministers are responsible for this or, perhaps it is fair to say, that they are not the only responsible and the ambience we have in the Bosnian-Herzegovina society is, of course, responsible for that. I, not to be misunderstood, say, in the period 2005-2006, when we talked about this, imagined that one day in the Council of Ministers we had the heads of political parties, the strongest political people in BiH. And I think it would be an engine, so it would be a place where there would be total political power, a place where we could make decisions, but here's what didn't happen then, and we have a situation that we have. But that does not prevent me from asking and asking the chairman of the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers to bear this fact in mind, to act on it because, regardless of the delay we have had, what has been contributed by the members of the Council of Ministers and also by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I do not see another way that BiH should go when it comes to the position of its executive authority. I really think the BiH Council of Ministers must become a pillar or head of BiH's executive authority. Today it is the BiH Presidency, and the Council of Ministers, practically, its body, is its constitutional position, and that according to the Council of Ministers' Law, in accordance with the Ministers' Law, they begin to act or create their own moves, create their own actions and have adequate responsibilities. I think it would be very helpful for this Council of Ministers, and for all of us... here because my impression is, don't be angry, gentlemen, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, yes, it is my impression, and I see that there is a lot more power in this, let's say, Parliament when I'm not talking about legislative, it's legislative here, but also the executive sphere of power, in the Presidency, or, say, in the meetings of the leaders of political parties,...or in entity governments than there are, rather than you. I don't think you've taken advantage of all the possibilities that are prescribed... by law and I call upon you, so according to these solutions, of course in the atmosphere of co-operation, this country needs, so co-operation, a necessary good atmosphere, I've talked about it last time, we're all leading this country together even more strongly forward. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16056	Thank you. Dear second Deputy Mr. Belkić. Here you go. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16057	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, in my opinion, this debate today is absolutely and appropriate for the moment and I agree with those who have stressed that this is a very important moment for our country, because we are simply confirming and completing the process of rounding the government of the country, i.e.... Council of Ministers. The debate itself, including, of course, the one that challenged both choice and models and everything else, in my opinion, can be very useful for the present and future, I hope, ministers and their deputies, and of course for us MPs to be instructive and to be a guideline, so only if we want to understand correctly what people have been saying today. It's certain there's one note, so to speak, folklore, sometimes unnecessary, etc. but it should simply be accepted as a way of working in Parliament. As far as I was concerned, as far as the Party for BiH is concerned, as part of the parliamentary majority, we have been committed from the very beginning of the process to establish the country's government as soon as possible, because it is very, very important and inevitable. And we, in the process itself, have, through various institutions, contributed to the acceleration of this process and the establishment of the government, therefore, by appointing the presidency's mandate, by confirming here and by giving confidence to the prime minister to propose a composition to this Parliament. When it comes to ministers and their deputies, the Party for BiH stands behind its current candidates, who, ultimately, also proposed to the new Council of Ministers, of course, and the deputy party for BiH proposed. So, let me repeat, we will support the proposed composition of the government, or ministers and their deputies, by supporting everyone together, of course, above all and the ministers we propose. When it comes to the Commission's report, here are some members of the Commission – which I do not take for evil,... instead of the chairman, some things here,... I will not say problems – pointed out some things but, behold, I would not repeat, so the clarifications are given about these deadlines. These processes are also given, etc., but we at the College, to which the commission addressed, appreciated that it was not allowed nor necessary to be involved by the College or anyone else, or involved in processes that the CEC automatically runs, nor are we sending messages that it does not run processes. We simply focused on the fact that we got what the CEC needs to do in this procedure, and that's one kind of permission, so one kind of clear consent that there's no interference for the people who are proposed here. This is where thought was heard – so we had a warning from a member of the Presidency, not the Presidency – so here was the thought that it might be best to take that step back, the process to restore, etc. I don't think there's any reason for us to take a step back than for us to take that one step forward, to confirm this today and continue our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16058	Thank you. Dear Messenger Nanić and Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16059	No microphone 33 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16060	Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16061	Since Beriz and I have known each other long enough that this step back was directed to my proposal – yes, yes, a step back, to go back – to get the presidency back on the appointment of the prime minister, I ask you not to take a step forward, if you have led us to the break-in. Behind this step is a step in breaking the law, and that is a step in breaking into this parliament. So I didn't offer back, step back. I've offered to return to the procedure prescribed by law, Mr. Belkić, and it's not going back. Anyway, I hope, at the end of the day, when we vote, we can also vote on that proposal that I made here. I consciously did not talk about the metrics, which was spoken of by my colleague Bećirović, because I thought it was enough to procedurally set the point that we should take a step forward, so that we do not take a step, step, to make as you say a step back, so that we do not take a step forward in a breakthrough called breaking the law. I consciously didn't speak, I didn't consciously remind my colleague Hadžiahmetović who said a year ago that only this time would she vote for such a council of ministers, with such a gender schedule, and next time she won't allow it. I didn't remind her of it knowingly because I believe she'll remember it when she votes. I consciously did not remind Mr Izetbegović that he said: After a year we will draw the line and see if everything is okay to give them a mandate again, and without doubt, I suppose, that he will... So I'm not talking about the metrics. The metric is perfectly clear on my part. He's clear to you, too. The other thing is that it's clear to you, and as you say, the reality that you accept and as such you lead us to make it even rougher. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16062	Dear Ambassador Belkić: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16063	It's not a replica about these steps, it's a replica on the claim, so we're doing an illegal process, we're entering lawlessness. The College and I, as part of the process, claim that we have not broken any laws, both from the point of view of deadlines and from the point of view of formal and legal interference for the appointment, the confirmation of this today's government. Of course, who thinks otherwise,...there are legal drugs to check it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16064	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16065	Thank you. 34 The chairman, members of the government, guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, I wanted through... my application to two things to indicate who are here,... I mean, not enough said. We've heard that in the Commission's report on candidate verification, there's a certain conclusion. I'm really sorry, I didn't get that report from the commission anywhere, and I think it's a very good and necessary conclusion about the problem when it comes to the appointment of the Council of Ministers, given the fact, here, that since the appointment of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, it's been 56 days and it's all in the process. It takes so much time. I don't think there's a country in the world that needs to be appointed as mandaters to appoint the rest of the Council of Ministers for 56 days and that something really needs to be done. In serious countries, it is resolved in five days, seven days, to be appointed to the Council of Ministers and to allow the work of those who have been given the mandate to establish power. In that sense, I would really like to ask, if there is that conclusion, that we vote on that conclusion, to initiate the procedure for these deadlines for the appointment of the Council of Ministers. Another thing, which I would like to say here and take the opportunity to take the opportunity to present and chair and members of the Council of Ministers, I would ask and expect them to, means from the Chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers, and in particular, given the presentation of the Council of Ministers to the Council of Speakers on two occasions from about twenty minutes to indeed behave, and means I speak to the other members of the Council of Ministers, in relation to this House, in relation to MPs, in relation to parliamentary issues, and to the parliamentary initiatives, and to create this one necessary trust, responsibility and respect. I really felt I needed to say this at this point and expect it, so with full support in the new council of ministers' new synergy, that we would establish new relations in this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16066	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović: replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16067	...a short cut shot... a few minutes I remember... what Professor was thinking. A Lagumdžija when I said that after a year, we'd draw a line and question something.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16068	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16069	I don't really remember that. I think that's the only thing you remember, Professor. I don't remember that. And... the normal thing to do is to have a discussion about everything and the normal thing that eventually after all these discussions we're going to name this same Council of Ministers, so it's just that, brother, it's taking too long, tiresome. We have a huge agenda... ahead of us, so I'm asking you to cut it short and cut it off more, to name it. Thank you. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16070	Dear Ambassador Raguž: discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16071	A discussion but very short, how long the replica lasts. I welcome the meaning of the College and all MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, and I think it is an opportunity for us from the parliamentary majority to say one assessment that may not have yet been heard in this debate. So, we don't think that this Council of Ministers has so far been ideal this year, but we find it very important for this country that in one calm way this situation with the resignation of the chairman and appointment of the new Council of Ministers has been brought to a very complex political moment for both this country and the region, and I think today is an opportunity to show the stability of the institutions and the possibility of judgment what is more important than the most important. In that sense, it will be our Council of Ministers' support but, of course, the joint responsibility of both this Parliament and the Council of Ministers that we still need to look ourselves in the eye, much more quality and much more responsibly, we all start things together. And that is why I have come to the floor because we need to reflect the situation that at this point there is no clear division of competence between, primarily, the government of the entity and the Council of Ministers in many important reform areas and that because of this inaccurate relationship and unwillingness to actively participate in the creation of quality relations, respecting the role of the entity government but also the role of the Council of Ministers, it can be much faster and more high-quality, especially in those priority and strategic areas, which are important for this country and whose responsibility, however, is at BiH level. It's another thing. The Council of Ministers, it is a message to both the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, and that is our consensus here – the Euro-Atlantic road, I think there is much more room than ever to impose the Council of Ministers, as a leader, in the process. And in terms of creating a positive environment and public relations, towards institutions, and generating initiatives and preparing the public, I think it is one of the weak sides of the Council of Ministers' work so far and I think we should change things together and start engines, as Mr. Šefik Džaferović can say. We will, therefore, support HDZ 1990, in the end, these suggestions that political leaders be within the Council of Ministers, that is, with our party situation, and certainly give the maximum dimension of the importance of working in this Council of Ministers and I think that, regardless of the complexity of constitutional solutions, the complexity of the regional context, this Council of Ministers has a real space to show, with Parliament's support in the coming months, not just one formal dimension, but indeed the dimension that this country will definitely be in a positive direction. That's why I'm here. That's why I'm here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16072	Thank you. I am more involved in the discussion and feel the need to express my opinion on the proposal for Mr Lagumdžija's conclusion. Namely, Dom will state his position on this agenda point, and afterwards on your proposal for a conclusion because we believe that the BiH Presidency did not resolve Mr Špirić. If it did, we'll know. So he's in office and we're acting in accordance with the Council of Ministers Act, which gave us a deadline for making a decision to confirm after the Commission's decision to prepare the Council of Ministers. 36 I also have a request from MP clubs to vote on it, and this was a request from both the Council of Ministers and the Ministers, to vote on the fact that, in addition to our conclusion that we adopted here, we are now voting on the Council of Ministers that they can take an oath and go on official travels that they have today and are already scheduled tomorrow. If you agree, I would now conclude the debate and call on the House to say that we are voting, means we are voting on confirmation now, not at the end of the debate on all points of the agenda. Please prepare to vote. Please vote now! [[Common discussion]] If there is no one to vote, the remark shall be put to a vote. We'll vote again. The Honorable Ambassador of Lagumdžija was not even there when I said what we were going to vote on. Now you have an objection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16074	Mr. Chairman, I don't know if you're aware that today has started a broadcast on the Internet so I've been watching you on the Internet about what you were talking about while I've been searching something, so it's an innovation that allows people to know what it was and I congratulate you on that innovation. I mean, without those innovations, I really wouldn't know what you were talking about. So, for me, even from ruling parties, the question is what are we voting on. I would just draw your attention that we are obliged under Article 76 (2) to first declare the conclusions proposed during the debate, and then on the material. And the material here is Nikola Špirić's decision, so no matter how much you don't like that conclusion, what you're going to take down, what I know what you're going to do, you're required by the Rules of Procedure to vote, to offer the first vote on the conclusion I suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16075	Yes, Ambassador Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16076	The truth is, I've been calling before you, the president, put this to the vote. I don't mind your suggestion, but I was... I was going to change, here, or a different conclusion to suggest. I suggest we vote today after every agenda item. Just for the reason you mentioned it. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16077	Please, just a minute. I would like first to answer to Mr Lagumdžija that we have learned that a regular session has started on the Internet, but it is the duty of the MPs to attend the session, not to follow the session over the Internet. On the other hand, I asked Dom to allow me to regulate this item on the agenda because of demands from MPs clubs and requests from the Council of Ministers. If the House doesn't do so, we will do according to our conclusion to complete the debate on all points of the agenda and to vote afterwards. However, this is a specific situation because after that, all ministers here, who are present, would take an oath that the situation would not happen if some were not there, and then each assembly took an oath here again. So, for a purely practical reason. Please keep that in mind. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16078	To tell you the truth, given that today is behind this point of the Bill on Budget Institutions and the two capital laws that are related to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, I don't even think we have this conclusion of our generic, that there would be enough reason to vote on them after these points, to make them be here, which would be normal if they were here all the time, while at least they're discussing the budget and even the laws that are capital. And you're turning things around for us. You want us to vote for them now, to let them go, when we talk about two capital things this year. That really...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16079	Please don't speak hypothetically whether it will be or not. I call on the House to plead according to my proposal to vote on confirming the Council of Ministers right now. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 27, "against" six, "abstained" five; sufficient entity majority. We will now vote first to confirm the appointment of the deputy chairman, minister and deputy minister in the Council of Ministers of BiH. After that, we will vote on the conclusion and the member you have read concerns legislative projects, not projects that concern such as confirming the Council of Ministers. That's why they vote on the conclusion afterwards. I think we agree in the College that this is how the Rules of Procedure has been interpreted and I therefore put to the vote Confirming the appointment of the deputy chairman, minister and deputy minister in the Council of Ministers of BiH. Please prepare to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16080	No microphone 38 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16081	Business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16082	Mr. Chairman, you can force anything. I don't know what you're doing, because apparently my conclusion doesn't have a majority. But what you're doing, I keep asking you. Article 76 speaks debate on agenda points, so it is called: debate on agenda points, quote, where you violate the Rules of Procedure. Discussion on agenda points: Point (1) Every agenda point – every point, every point, I repeat, every point – shall be considered before making a decision on it, unless otherwise prescribed by this Rules of Procedure. Point (2). The debate on the agenda – Špirić is the point of the agenda and of the Council of Ministers, sorry, the Council of Ministers' pardon – brings out a number of proposals for conclusions on the same issue – I had a proposal for a conclusion on the issue, and then: after the first statement on the motions of MPs, the House votes on the whole on the proposal for materials that it is considering. After that, Article 76(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is He tells you: The debate on reports on constitutional amendments, proposed laws and other issues consists, etc. So it's very clear. I don't know what you're doing. [[Common discussion]] I mean, you can do whatever you want. You can do anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16084	Thank you. Please don't throw this away. We gave you, when the debate was concluded, an absolute opportunity to say what you think here. It doesn't matter if we vote first on the conclusion or the Council of Ministers. You talk here all the time about formal reasons, and in fact, they're the main reasons. Please make this home known – the Kolegijum's proposal to vote first on confirmation and after that on the conclusion. Please ask this house to plead that way. Please prepare to vote. You can vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16085	No microphone 39 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16086	Business intervention: Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16087	Well, I've discussed it a few times already. I don't think we need this rulebook.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16088	Please just tell me which member you're calling and let's vote on what you're proposing. Do you have any suggestions?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16089	I have a suggestion that you respect a member of the Rules of Procedure,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16090	What member?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16091	Not that you decide at every session whether or not you will respect it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16092	Please tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16093	Point 76 (2).
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16094	And your suggestion is to vote first on the conclusion. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16095	Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16096	To vote first on the conclusion? I asked Dom if that's how it's gonna be done. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16097	You can't ask Dom, it says. Home was adopted by the Rules of Procedure. You can't ask everyone, I'm saying you can't ask every time if you're gonna do this or you're gonna do this. What do we need a Rules of Procedure for then?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16098	Please, this is unnecessary what we're doing here. It's really unnecessary. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16099	Well, you're doing it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16100	If you want to create a situation where we can't even deal with the Rules of Procedure, then we can make that situation here. But this is really unnecessary what we do. People are waiting for us to finish the job. I don't mind if Dom pleads the way you're looking. Absolutely, I, as chairman, have allowed the dom to do so. If anyone breaks the Rules of Procedure, then the House will break the Rules of Procedure. Please make it clear that he will not break the Rules of Procedure. What's the problem? [[Common discussion]] Please, I'll allow the first discussion of the conclusion and then we will, and then we'll agree on how we'll vote on the conclusion or... First discussion of the conclusion. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Lozančić: discussion of the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16102	Here, everyone I've said hello for the first time, I'm saying hello right now. Well, I have to say, I wouldn't answer on this either, but let's see if the public sees what we're discussing so much. What is the text, what is the content and what is the message of this conclusion? So, we are being questioned here by the MPs that, eventually, we are saying: We, MPs of the House of Representatives, are calling on the BiH Presidency to re-name the chairman of the Council of Ministers and, behold, because the law has been broken, the deadline has been broken, etc. Now look. Here, let's say, hypothetically now, since everything here is hypothetically set up, let's say we now declare it. What if the Presidency doesn't happen to hear our call and they don't answer? So what do we do? Come on, is there, uh, any suggestions on what we'll do then? Then shall we conclude again? Then shall we make an alarming call to the Presidency? Look out, the presidency is, at least you who have... your party colleagues, your comrades in the presidency, you should respect that institution more! So you should. So, the presidency as an institution appointed the chairman of the Council of Ministers and gave him the mandate to appoint ministers and deputies. And based on what the presidency gave him, the president did. With no gesture, I am talking about the Presidency because it has a mandate on this issue, not one of its gestures, although it, I hope, is following, means following the procedure for the appointment of the Council of Ministers, because it has given the mandate to the Council of Ministers' Chairman, it has not given any indication to any of its gestures that it thinks it should elect a new chairman of the Council of Ministers. I, with this in mind, conclude that the presidency is absolutely still behind the current Council of Ministers chairmanship and, normally, the move he is making. So, this is to invite the Presidency to do something, if we could. However, the Presidency, take a realistic look at this because you are calling for the Constitution, to the laws, etc., where the Presidency has to respond to calls 41, and where it does not have to, look at this, well, it means that we are not making conclusions that will bring ourselves here, because we are making conclusions that cannot be realized, as well as a Presidency that does not have to respond to such calls, because it is absolutely conscious, I hope it is conscious... that there is no violation of the Law on the appointment of the chairman or members of the Council of Ministers. But here we can make this conclusion if it'll calm someone down. I don't think we're going to take any step forward or back, but I think we're going to turn out, all together, funny.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16103	Dear Ambassador Raguž: Business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16104	Mr. President, you've concluded the debate. We had this conclusion during the debate. Now all we can do is make a statement about those conclusions. Here, Dom accepts that we plead first on the conclusion. I mean, the debate is now outside the Rules of Procedure, above... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16105	I'm closing the debate. We vote first on the conclusion of the honourable MP Lagumdžija, no, no, no, we are looking for the BiH Presidency to re-nominate the Council of Ministers after it expired under the Council of Ministers Act on a deadline for appointment of ministers and its deputies. Please take Dom...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16106	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16107	In brackets: Article 10(1) shall prescribe a period of 35 days. Please prepare to vote on this conclusion. You can vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We've entered the position of voting, please. You may vote to express yourself in connection with this conclusion against. Please. _________(?) 42 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16113	Declaring
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16114	that I will knowingly perform the duties entrusted to me by the chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16115	that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with, 43
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16116	I respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, chairing,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16117	I respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16118	I am fully implementing the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16119	I fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16120	I protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. THE PRESIDENT,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16121	I protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16122	Congratulations. ...to meet me here at three o'clock, three o'clock. [[PAUZA]] Moving to the second item of the agenda: Ad. 2. Proposal for a Bill on Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2008 (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16125	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs, here's a little attention to what we've done between the two sessions, so we can get along easier and have a better insight into what we've done. As I was familiar with last week's address with the starting points on which the draft budget adopted by the Council of Ministers in January 2008 and the amendments introduced by the BiH Presidency in the draft budget, allow me to introduce you to the amendments to the draft budget on the basis of the conclusions of the House of Representatives held on 12 February, as well as the conclusions and amendments from the Committee on Finance and Budget of the House of Representatives held on 16 February this year. So, the House of Representatives, at its meeting of 12 February, concluded that the Committee on Finance and Budget, in co-operation with the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, was obliged to establish the Budget Proposal, in which revenue will be planned from the Single Account for the financing of BiH institutions of 675 million marks, while the total indicative budget will be 1.186,357.560 marks, including, of course, external debt. In other words, the revenue side of the Bureau's budget is reduced to the revenue side of the draft budget adopted by the Council of Ministers in January this year. Furthermore, it has been concluded that this overall framework will also respect the Presidency's proposals in the amounts agreed by the Finance and Budget Committee with the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. The meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee was then scheduled for Saturday, February 16th. I would point out that we had during, if we had had this Finance and Budget Committee during which we informed the distinguished representatives of the official indications of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations on the additional funds allocated to these users by the Presidency proposal. It is, in fact, current grants of 25 million marks, which have been added to the already existing current grant for the Return Programme of Refugees and Displaced Persons in the Human Rights and Refugees budget, 10 million marks, means, for, in the new grant, the budget of the Ministry of Civil Affairs entitled Kotisation for Access to EU Funds 45 EU FP7, and 5 million marks allocated in the new grant in the Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Budget, called the EU Market Accession Programme. The ministry of human rights and refugees in the official memo supported an increase of 25 million marks proposed by the presidency until the foreign trade and economic relations ministry declared that the allocated programme was not in the ministry's jurisdiction. As regards the Ministry of Civil Affairs, their letter states that, in accordance with the Council of Ministers' conclusion of the 36th session, held on 24 January this year, the Ministry of Civil Affairs requested the European Commission to authorise the use of funds from EU pre-accession assistance instruments, so-called IPA funds for the payment of the FP7 quotation programme, which will amount to 794 thousand euros for 2008, so the amendments to the Finance and Budget Committee have been introduced in the following changes compared to the draft budget adopted by the Bureau. The revenues have been reduced by 45 million marks, and this is the following way: the planned, planned income from the Single Account for the financing of BiH institutions has been reduced by 35 million marks, from 710 to 675 million marks. The incomes of the Central Bank are reduced by 10 million marks, i.e. from 60 to 50 million marks. The expenditure was, of course, also reduced by 45 million marks in order to achieve the balance, as follows: all material costs were reduced, not to mention, means travel expenses, telephone and all other costs, heating, totalling 5,096,908 marks, i.e. with 2.7% of all users linearly. Gross wages and fees were reduced by 26 thousand, 26.862,655 marks or by 6.3% of all users linearly. According to the competent ministries, a 5 million-mark grant has been deleted in the Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Ministry budget under the name of the EU Market Access Programme. Instead of a 10 million-mark grant for the EU FP7 Cohesion Fund, a new programme has been planned by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, a new grant called the Programme for the preparation of potential candidates for EU FP7 funding projects worth 500 thousand marks. The funds for reconstruction and investment maintenance at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly have been increased from 1,030,000 marks to 3,030,000 marks, to the arrangement of the external facade on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building. Grant Support for co-financing of BiH's cultural institutions at the civil society ministry increased from 2.900,000 to 3 million marks. The grant of co-financing for BiH sports events at the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs has been increased from a million marks to 1,300,000 marks. Therefore, this proposal includes amendments, with integrated amendments to the total income of BiH institutions in 2008 and planned at 1.186,357,560 marks, representing an increase of 172,648,099 marks or 17% higher than the approved budget in 2007 and relating to revenue for the financing of BiH institutions of 924,426,842 marks which are higher by 174,326,842 marks or 23% higher than the 2007 budget; income 46 for the service of external debt of 261,930,718 marks which are less than 1% compared to the 2007 budget. The structure of the funding source is the following: the revenues financed by BiH institutions were allocated from the Single Account of 475 million marks, which is 7% higher than the 2007 budget. Other income of 249.426.842 marks and refers to its own income of 153,452,000, which grows 52% compared to 2007 mainly due to the growth of income from the Central Bank whose growth is 150% compared to the 2007 allocated revenue, which is mostly directed towards multi-annual capital investment and budget, i.e. 34m marks and 61m marks transferred from previous years that have not been spent in the BiH institutions' budgets. The total expenditures of institutions and international commitments for 2008 were planned at 1.186,357,560 marks, representing an increase of 17% compared to the approved 2007 budget. Out of the total amount of 1,186,357,560 marks, the amount of 261,930,718 marks is planned for external debt service, while 924,426,843 marks represent planned expenditures by BiH institutions without the meaning of external debt service and are higher by 174,326,000 marks than in 2007. Finally, I must stress that these changes did not violate the principles and objectives of the budget, and that the maximum level of compromise was achieved. I therefore ask the representatives today to support the adoption of the budget in order to end the temporary funding that makes it impossible for budgetary users to start new and expand programmes and activities in time, in line with the Council of Ministers' adopted priorities for the achievement of the programmes they wish to achieve. And in the end, one sentence. So, the Commission has rejected all amendments, and by considering in the spirit of the amendments that have been proposed, it has proposed its amendments in the specific framework that the conclusion of this House has adopted, and has come up with its proposal and is of the opinion that it has achieved most of what the amendments wanted to achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16126	Thank you, Minister. Does anyone need a commission? Dear Ambassador Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16127	Thank you. As the esteemed Minister Vrankić said, at the request of the College, the Commission held a session on Saturday to discuss all the amendments received, taking care of Parliament's conclusion that the framework budget does not exceed 1.186,357.560. I represented the position on the Commission, as well as my colleague Huskić, the presidency where the Framework Budget was bigger, but after discussions and reconciliation with the Ministry of Finance, we found 47 compromises that Budget has the support of this parliament, and most importantly, the BiH state today has budgets so as not to question the functioning of BiH institutions. There were amendments: Zlatko Lagumdžija, Denis Bećirović, Jerko Ivanković Lijanović, Niko Lozančić, SNSD MEP club, Momčilo Novaković, my smallness and Bajazit Jašarević. We voted on the committee individually on each proposal and on each amendment and the Commission, if there is a need to read,... supported the following amendments where I proposed, in front of the Commission: me and my colleague, Bajazit Jašarević. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The balance of revenue by sources and purposes shall also be changed from the following point, in point 1. Incomes from the Single Account of the Directorate for indirect taxation for the financing of BiH institutions are reduced to the amount of 35 million so that... the amount of 710 million is changed and is now 675 000 and adopted by this parliament on the basis of the conclusion of the SDA proposal. Also, revenue from the Central Bank's profits is reduced by 10 000, so the current amount of 60,000 changes and now it's 50, 60 million and now it's 50 million. In accordance with the above, the reduction in Table 2 of Article 2. The aggregate cost balance per economic category is changed in a way that is set out in point 1. Current expenditures reduce the amount by 5,096,908 KM, so that the existing amount of 807,281.436 KM is changed and is now 802,184,528 KM. In point 1. Gross heat and compensation reduces the amount by 26.862,655, so that the existing amount of 456,390,711 changes and is now 429,528,056. To underline, it means for... the 25 million that was... The presidency, the Commission agreed with the finance ministry to pay, pay means reduced... and which is good. In point 4. Current grenades, the existing amount is reduced by 1400,000, so that the existing amount of 59,209.300 is changed and is now 45,109.300. In point 6. The reservation, and this item of the Current Reserve, is reduced by 940,437 KM so that the existing amount of 17.629,655 is changed and is now 16.899,218. In accordance with the abovementioned reduction referred to in Article 2. ... table Budgetary income schedules and individual users tables reduce expenditure on all material costs, not to mention the total amount of 5,096.908, i.e. 2.7%. For gross wages and fees totalling 26.862,655, i.e. for 6.3% for all users, except the Post Office and the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity. amandman II. In Article 3 in individual table 13, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, Liquid Grants: an ongoing grant called the EU Market Access Programme of 5 million KM is deleted. In Article 3 in the individual table, Amendment III, number 1. The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the entry Capital expenditures, reconstruction or... is increasing by 2 million, these buildings, so that the existing amount of a billion and thirty, do not laugh at your colleague Lagumdžija, you will come in turn, changes and now amounts to 3.030,000. Annex IV to the EEA Agreement should therefore be amended accordingly, In Article 3, in the individual table No. ... The ministry of civil affairs: Liquid grenades, a liquid grant called EU FP7 Access Kotation, amounting to 10 million, is deleted. Instead, an ongoing grant called the Programme for the preparation of potential candidates' projects for EU FP7 funds is added. In the same table, Article 3, the titles Funding institutions of importance for BiH, amounts to the existing situation, so that the name is Helping the programme of co-financing of BiH's cultural institutions increases the amount by 100,000, i.e. from 2.900,000 to 3 million. Comrade Kalabić just a little quieter, this...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16128	Just a minute, please, let me hear from you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16129	The funds for co-financing of sports events are increasing from 300 per million to millions, or from millions per million to 300. It's a colleague of Lazar Prodanović... Amendment v. stav (1) Member. The 20th is amended and said: 'The funds to address the problem of financing... refugees and displaced persons are provided through the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and are spent through this ministry and the Return Fund on the basis of approved programmes and projects.' As part of this, the Commission has also adopted the following conclusions of the bill, which is now being adopted at the House. The first conclusion was unanimously accepted by the Commission: It undertakes the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury to make instructions and distribute them to all budgetary users following the adoption of the Law on the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for the purpose of special monitoring of funds previously presented through the specific purpose programme, on the basis of which... the MPs' clubs – a delegate in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the framework of the Budget, are to be singled out and monitored as a special item of 495 000 KM. The second conclusion was adopted by the Commission with 5 votes "for", two "against" and one "abstained"... the BiH institutions' 2009 budget must be compared with the same parameters of planned and achieved state and entity budgets. And the third conclusion also with five votes "for", two "against" and one "abstained": Due to the accumulated neutral assets of previous years... from the Single Account of the 2008 Direct Taxation Authority cannot be the basis for the establishment of the BiH institutions' budget for the coming year. Following a debate with five votes "for", one "against" and two "abstained" votes, the Commission accepted the text of the Bill on the Budget of BiH institutions and international commitments for 2008, with the amendments adopted, as well as the conclusions... the only proposal, with the need to adopt it, and I propose the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's 49 House of Representatives to support the proposals, the Commission's report and finally get this budget. If there's any need, I'll have a discussion. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16130	Thank you. Are there any reports of a hearing? Dear Ambassador Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16131	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I would like to go through this budget, appreciating the need to have it, and with the Commission's opinion that we have here, I would like to pay attention and ask for answers from the Ministers present here who are in charge of only one thing that I want to trouble, and that's the cost of the lease. As you can see, in this budget of 61 institutions, or budget users, 54 of them pay rent costs. In this year, it's 19 million, almost 20 million marks and it really means only seven of them don't pay the rent. If I didn't list now all of these institutions, there are really many of them, and, esteeming the time we have here, I would... I would suggest a conclusion that the Parliamentary Assembly would make that conclusion. So the conclusion would have the following content: If the BiH Council of Ministers were to be obliged to do a programme or plan of activities to resolve the accommodation of BiH institutions in order to reduce the cost of renting these institutions. I appreciate that in this one mandate of the Council of Ministers, in four years 80 million, this may be a larger amount with the formation of new institutions, it may be possible to build entirely new, new facilities that would also be owned by BiH, thus reducing maintenance costs and everything else, and I think that further explanation of this initiative is unnecessary, and I would ask MPs to support this conclusion that I will draw.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16132	Are you asking for a vote before or after the budget?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16133	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16134	Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija. Here you go. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16135	I, my colleague Živković, answered my word to explain my amendments so that I would not read again the Commission's record or start reading the Budget, and then go with the items I agree, agree, disagree, disagree, I would only agree on amendments that, whether, after they were rejected, were rejected on the Commission, whether, under the leadership of the ruling parties. I have nine amendments. I think that by respecting the reasonable number of these amendments, this budget could, whether, quality to change and to change in accordance with the arguments and objectives that we all advocate and for which there is otherwise a consensus and I don't see why these amendments would not be accepted, the more I am the next logic, the more budgetary, which has become more and more familiar to us all, so here I am after so many years, that when you suggest that something be added, then you say where it is being taken away, if the first reading is a given frame. And my amendments are, are closed, as they say exactly where, how much to take, and my amendments don't ask for any additional financial resources. First, my first amendment, my four first amendments refer to those items that could, with one reasonable approach to this kind of spending, be reduced to those places where the increases have more than obviously gone in the unwanted direction, or in the desired direction, for whoever wants to spend, but, unwanted direction, for whoever wants to spend rationally. I was a little scared, even an announcement at the previous agenda point that after the three laws produced by this Council of Ministers had passed both of these homes plus those laws that were previously, were in the procedure, that we could get a fourth bill of wages very quickly. So even the announcement of the Law of Payments already... is enough reason to light up for the start of yellow light, warning, not to run into a space where, I'm afraid, it has started, and this is an enormous increase in gross wages and fees, compensation of employees' costs and increases in contract and other special services. My first amendment is aimed at that, and I think that Minister Vrankić has really shown great art, in some ways, even, as he would say, is he, counterpart Novaković, for a second chance and courage, to reduce gross payments and fees, and so he found what Parliament has ordered him to do. I think there is, Minister Vrankić, more space, and that is why I have given an amendment that says that in Article 2 the amount for the Brutolata item and the compensation is reduced by an additional 10 million. In fact, we have an increase of 372 million, we had to 456, now it's gone from 372 to 429 million. I don't see why wages would increase above the cost of living, above the growth of industrial production, above the growth of GDP, above, here you take any of these parameters, and especially to increase the wages for the sum of these, is it, growth. Collect GDP growth in last year, price increases in last year and inflation, and you will see that the increase in gross payments and fees in this year we have more than all of this together. And each of these parameters is enough reason to be restrictive for salary growth, if we want to have a social and stabilisation budget. If it were for social purposes, it wouldn't be a problem, but obviously, as soon as it goes into gross wages and benefits, not programmes. 51 Then the cost of the employees. They have an increase index of 136 percent or they increase by 36 percent, whatever you want, and they go from 112 million to 153 million. That's why my amendment is going to cut that by an additional 20 million marks. I'm afraid we've gone too far in an item called Travel Costs. Travel costs are rising from 13 million to 19 million. With full respect, growth, index, or whatever you want, 141 or 41% to increase that amount, it doesn't lead us anywhere, and that's why it's been proposed to cut costs by 2.5 million. The fourth amendment then speaks of Contracting and other specific services. It's that minefield, always was. Here, compared to last year's 23 million, it goes to 50 million and that's why the proposal is to cut it by 20 million, or 50 to be 30, to go from 23 to 30 million. So much for savings that I have no doubt are rational, which should be spent on. First of all, I would like to draw attention to what I expected from the minister that, not to say, I expected from the President of the Commission, but at least I expected the minister to explain to us a little bit about this sinusoid or the guilt of the Council of Ministers' budget, through the Presidency's budget and what we've just received. To be clear, we have now returned to the figure of the Council of Ministers which the Bureau rejected, or had no support from any member of the Bureau, so we have now returned to that figure. All right. That was Parliament's conclusion last time. However, so Parliament's conclusion was to be respected, I remind you, that the proposals of the Bureau members should be respected. Right? Members of the presidency! It was not written by members of the presidency from the ruling parties. If it had been written by members of the chairmanship of the ruling parties, then you have fulfilled your duty. However, you have made amendments that are contrary to the conclusion that you have mostly opted for, and that is true of only one member of the Presidency, the second, thank Bog, did not have, and the third member of the presidency, which does not belong to the party-dominated majority, of its amendments, as someone said earlier, are loaded with feet. So, the man proposed 10 million for that FP7 project for pre-accession funds for the EU's 7th programme, weighing 55 billion euros, and the proposal came after the visit of Janez Potočnik, European Commissioner for Science and Technology, who was accepted from everyone here with full respect and supported by his idea that we should separate something. Look, it's his idea for us to take something apart. So let's take something from that 55 billion euros. We are this proposal from the Bureau member, Mr Komšić, to be very clear, in the Commission he was practically rejected and acted contrary to Parliament's conclusion that all three were respected. The next conclusion the Bureau had with regard to the Council of Ministers is 10 million marks of the Church, given what? And that's for, or, excuse me, 5, over here 10 and here 5 for agriculture. To support agriculture as the largest, I do not look at Dokic because he has always advocated support for new technological aspirations, the new technological drive is Zorić, to invest in agriculture because it is indicated on the world level, and you certainly follow it, that the issue of food production will be a dominant problem in the next decade and that the world will increasingly have a food problem and our trade deficit, which last year amounted to 8 billion marks and the largest in the history of this country, has only had food, food and water, food and drink about 2 billion, and we have imported nearly 3 52 billion euros of goods from other countries that they have sold to us by importing from third countries. So, we were just the third arm and we were just drinking water that we didn't have, we threw up to over three billion. And that's why there's a deficit here. That's why there was a proposal here to at least start something, which is the two largest funds in the EU, for agriculture and for science and technology. Despite Parliament's conclusion that the views of all three, both members of the Presidency, as no difference has been made, are not all respected by all the views of one member of the Presidency, so this is the opposite of Parliament's conclusion from the last time, apart from being contrary to common sense, but it is now a special story. You can't appeal to that here. Therefore, amandman v. says an item, which would go to the Ministry of Foreign Trade, would be entered in Article 3 of the development of domestic production and stimulation of 25 million. With respect to this item, we would practically cover ourselves, let's call it the Komsic amendment, that is, what this parliament was saying a long time ago, and that is to be invested. So, Komšić did not invent agriculture and science. We're not from such a party that we think our president, a member of the presidency, invented everything. The man read and walked behind us, read our conclusions, and saw that it was necessary. Therefore, amandman v. – the possibility of developing domestic production and stimulation. Tell me, Martina, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16136	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16137	Wait a minute, please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16138	That's my president, Mr. Bahtić, that's my president, yes. I have, well, thank Bog, and you stab something once. So, amandman vi. in Article 24 of the Law, and I thank you, I truly thank the Minister of Finance here, and the Minister of Traffic for being here because a good number of amendments refer precisely to this domain of traffic from his portfolio. Namely, amandman vi. is related to Article 24 of the Law, which by who knows which year instead of putting into balance at Budget, that item in the license for Corridor Vc is constantly being transferred... to another place, so we can't track where it went last year. And my suggestion is in Amendment VI. to place in the Ministry of Communications and Transport the amount of 27 million marks for the implementation of the project and the production of design and study projects of documentation for Corridor Vc. I have no doubt that this will come up with the support of the Minister of Transport and Communications, but as of last year, we had consulting services related to the Corridor with about 180 grand, as I recall, so since nothing was worn out, it's gone to zero. My proposal is not to give the consultants 27 million or the one in Article 24 to move this into a budget item and move on. 53 amandman vii., I bring an end, a position, Article 3 says: Making domain policies for the development of the Information Society in BiH, now has a zero mark; to place 500 000 in the Ministry of Communications. Why 500 grand? Because last year there were 140,000 in the first version. The home adopted to increase to a million, and then it was sent back because, again, these higher targets and there are 150,000 left. Now, can someone say what you're proposing now, 500 grand? Well, because these 150,000 haven't been spent at all, and we're late for, here's the second year. We have international obligations, even our ministry has organised a very fine international conference at which some obligations have been taken over. In other words, the creation of domain policies, unlike the Information Society, as our regional obligation, to place an amount of 500 000, and last year also 100, and this year it is simply abolished. And in the end, two amendments. I think they're also important because of the next item of the agenda when we talk about this police reform, which is when new institutions are being created at the state level, and institutions are not getting laid at lower levels. It takes over the function at the state level, on entity and cantonal, it stays the same, it creates a new place of cost, a new administration, and as a result we have a result that one day someone will say, well, it's inefficient for us this country. Why? Because it only generates institutions that don't do what they're supposed to do, and at the bottom level, you have institutions that are similar or para-institutions that hold power in their hands, indeed. Therefore, amandman vi, says firstly: Costs of salaries and charges of employees per employee cannot exceed the amount of 2007 increased for the cost of living. amandman IX.. (binding to this), says Article 3a behind) adds Article 3.b, which reads: Funding an increase in the number of employees, expenditure on salaries in BH institutions, must start from the admission of extra workers to other BiH institutions with appropriate qualifications, and then must monitor the reduction of the funding of the adequate number of employees of salary expenditure at lower levels. Apart from this restriction that involves the reception of new people, only trainees can be accepted from the existing administration, according to a specific programme that will be adopted by the Council of Ministers. I've prescribed this since last year, since I heard it from the President of the Council of Ministers that it will be a special programme... for trainees and that we will have these interns and I must admit that last year everyone congratulated the President of the Council of Ministers on this idea, so here we are again at the beginning of another year and another budget. Finally, Mr. Chairman, these amendments do not require any additional funds, these amendments do not come out of the box given to the past, in the past... when you passed the Budget in the first reading and these amendments actually bring you back to the framework of your conclusion with the last House, which is to respect what the members of the Bureau gave. I would suggest a conclusion if you were underprivileged. Don't worry, I won't conclude that I'm suggesting, that since the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees last year had more money than he spent, much, much more than he did, and that he didn't spend it, and now he needs to get a new raise, it would be logical, would it, would it, to take a new minister who would know to spend it the right way? So don't worry, Bahtić, don't worry, you're not so lucky to have someone like me here, so don't worry. I think even the adoption of this kind of budget would be very quick to review which ministers could wear this, but that was the previous point, so I wouldn't want to go back even procedurally to it. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16139	Correction of an incorrect quote, Honored President Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16140	Thank you. In line with what we talked about in the previous agenda that some members of the Presidency are knowingly violating the BiH Constitution, I want to direct you to two segments that I think are done in this way. Namely, the proposed 10m-euro increase in the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs' current grant allocations, i.e. entry tickets for BiH's accession to the EU Framework Programme for Research and Development, is significantly deviating from the amount proposed by the EU Commissioner for Science and Research, which you have appointed, Mr Janez Potočnik. Contribution in the first year and accession to the Western Balkan country, with an 80% discount of 794 thousand euros, i.e. 1.558,000 KM, not 10 million. The Council of Ministers has launched an activity to ask the European Commission for agreement to provide those funds from pre-accession EU funds intended for BiH to create conditions for signing the Agreement on Scientific and Technical Co-operation with the EU. We are for this co-operation, we are for those pre-accession funds, but we are not for politicizing it this way. And, on the other hand, we are talking about an unconstitutional or unconstitutional proposal. Namely, the proposal to increase budget funds by an additional 5 million to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, to create the conditions necessary for access to the EU market, and in particular certified and accredited, is contrary, in my opinion, to the Constitution and to the applicable laws, because product certification is carried out by certified bodies appointed by competent entity ministries, as well as support for the economic facilities for placing products on the EU market, the introduction of C signs. On the other hand, the financing of the Institute for Accreditation has been regulated by a law providing for funding and funding achieved by its own activity, by participation from the budget, which was planned by the draft budget for this year, proposed by the Council of Ministers. In that opinion... it's an unconstitutional action of a member of the presidency. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16141	We're just a moment ago, are you, at least you've realized that there's no need for us to interpret the Presidency and tell them what to do, but that we should worry about what we need to do and what our obligations are. Now we're in, looks like you're back in that circle you formed yourself. Namely, if you want to offer to Parliament that Parliament realizes that one member of the Bureau has acted counter-constitutionally, by proposing these two items, try this, 55 test at Parliament, you may be right, that you have a majority to do so. I wouldn't even be surprised if you had a majority for that grade, but here's a test. But here I am talking about Parliament's conclusion. No more about the presidency. The last time Parliament concluded, when it accepted Budget in principles, that those remarks should be respected. There are three members of the Bureau! Why didn't you say that one of them was unconstitutional? So what was not said then to respect the objection of the refugees, period. No problem at all. I'm just saying that this budget, like it was adopted on the board, is the opposite of that decision last time because it wasn't respected... I believe that it is in accordance with the Constitution and that it is not an anti-constitutional action that requires that we have access through the competent ministry with us, for the Ministry of Foreign Trade, for pre-accession EU funds and for the preparation of funds, for EU preparation from the agricultural domain, because the EU, unfortunately, will not change the rule, so it will not discuss this with the entity agriculture ministries. Now, unfortunately, some say, but we have the State Department of Foreign Trade that deals with it. And as far as the FP7 programme is concerned, it's not true what Kalabić would say earlier, he blames this allegation, therefore, that Potočnik, by any interpretation of his statement, could be the man who was the argument that 500 thousand marks are just for science and technology, for FP7 because 500 thousand marks, as a seven-year project of 55 billion, implies that you've predetermined that we're participating with a 400-thousand share of the amount that everyone else is doing together. That Potočnik is not, I know the man personally, he's not a fool, it's 100%, he would never say that for science and technology we have 500 thousand marks a year just to go towards Europe. I mean, I have to stand up for a man, I know him...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16142	Dear Messenger, the replica, is it? Bahtić, replica or discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16143	I have a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16144	Replica: Alajbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16145	I wanted to say that an initiative was launched in this House of Representatives a year ago by the Ministry of Finance and the Council of Ministers and the Commission for Economic Affairs and Finance to include the item Financial Funds for FP7 for the 2008 budget. The FP7 BiH projects cannot apply alone, means no institution, not one person, or a science person, without co-workers from EU member countries, and 10,000 euros is needed to prepare the project. I calculated that behind these 500,000, as far as the budget remains in its final proposal, about 25 institutions and 25 scientific workers could apply to the FP7 because we were in earlier EU projects that were FP5 and FP6, and they were phase projects for several years, some of our scientific workers were in these projects, of course as co-workers on projects where scientists from EU countries were involved. So, in fact, I just wanted to explain in some way that we had already discussed and thought about the financial resources and resources that will be needed for our people to apply to the FP7 and, of course, the EU's Commissioner for Science and 56 to establish co-operation, where BiH could apply itself, means without strategic partners from countries that are members of the EU and colleagues from those countries, would, in any case, make a huge contribution to the development of science in BiH and would therefore be the basis for developing an economy, quality other projects that are an upgrade of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16146	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Prodanović. It's a replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16147	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, respected ministers, here, I'm actually reporting for a guilty allegation. Mr. Lagumdžija, first of all, claims that he is not respected. It is a respected position of members of the Bureau, including a member of Mr Komšić's presidency,... at the conclusion of the House of Representatives. He did, his proposal was 10 million funds for pre-accession funds. We, the Commission's leadership, had a conversation with the finance minister and his associates, where we are very well-convinced to predict this size of funds and use them for quotations means not having their return, because the estimates that BiH, a prominent colleague of Azra, has just presented, 25 projects, are unlikely with current funds that BiH will be able to apply this year. So that's one thing. Secondly, what we are convinced by the finance minister and his associates is that, if there are more projects, the funds of the reserve will not absolutely be questioned by the quota of funds with EU pre-accession projects. And another question that you often mention. That's what I'm saying because journalists have asked me a few times: What does it mean that BiH's parliamentarians are losing 53 billion euros? Come on, please, maybe you don't think so, and maybe the journalists figured that out, it's impossible and then it all comes down against the parliamentarians that they're against the funds for it! Let's not misinformed the public. BiH with its full capacity or in recent years of use of funds will not be able to withdraw a billion euros annually, a billion euros. Here we are going to experience, hopefully, most of it, so let's see. So 53 billion assets are now a story of how we are against the development of this country. So, I just wanted to make this clear... that it's not exactly like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16148	Dear Ambassador Dokić: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16149	Is it a replica or is it a finding? Not entering the other amendments, which my colleague Lagumdžija suggested, here I suggest that, if I understand correctly the amendment relating to 19 million or something to the documentation for Corridor Vc, to give up that amendment, because, because the documents on Corridor Vc have been provided from the license of three telecoms for mobile telephony, as you know, and these are not budget funds. That's what we fought for in this 57 years ago. So she doesn't burden the funds. There are funds if they are agreed and Corridor Vc has priority over other tasks for which these funds from GSM licences can be used. So this is an explanation, not a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16150	Thank you. Next up for discussion, the guilty quote: the honourable Ambassador of Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16151	Yeah, blame it on the quote. I'm sorry, Mr. Dokić. I'd like you to take a look at my amandman vi. He says, Consulan services related to the Corridor with an amount of 0, because the rest, the name left since last year only the amount was transferred – 0 is changing into project realization, be careful, project realization and design study from the project documentation for the highway to Corridor Vc. So, if there's anything you need for the planning documentation. If Dokić says it takes less or it's all over. That's why it stands here to realize the project and make it because this support it has from Minister Dokić was, I think, always well welcomed here except that there is no Corridor Vc through the activities of the ministry. And, sir... lazare, let me be clear. Assuming that a billion euros, God Bog... what we're proposing here is four thousand times less, four thousand times less. Here, let's make it 55 billion, let's make it a billion like you said, which we'll... get! Four thousand times less is proposed here!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16152	Dear Ambassador Prodanović, then Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16153	Whether or not you are quoting means the amount to be withdrawn. So I am also for the first year, if the position is, therefore, information from the Council of Ministers, in a conversation with Mr. Potočnik, the first year of the application, means funds that, with funds that would be used through the fund, amounting to about, less than 800 million, 800 000 euros. So that's about a million and 500 thousand marks. We have planned 500 thousand marks, without questioning that the projects that BiH is, it is a sad thing that we – unfortunately, we have no scientific capacities, neither professional, nor in collaboration with other countries and joint projects that... – can do so but if this is ever questioned by the Council of Ministers from the funds of the Reserve it will not bring it. I am sorry, it turns out that I am now interpreting the position of the Council of Ministers or Ministers, but our commitment has been governed exclusively by arguments about each amendment. All and one amendment we had, the Commission's leadership spoke with the minister and his most competent co-workers in the area of the budget. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16154	Dear Ambassador Kalabić: Replica. Here you go. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16155	Since I heard part of Mr Lagumdžija's discussion, although I must ask you frankly, here's what the members of the Commission will confirm: Mr Lagumdžija, it doesn't have to be true, someone told the Commission that you took the same amendments from last year, that you just changed the date. As far as relations to the budget are concerned, and they're completely, but I'm not saying. It is, it is said on the Commission, I do not claim that it is so since you did not, it is said that you have only changed, and that you have been completely used with the same text since last year. But I think there's someone there to elaborate, I think he has an expert on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16156	Just a minute, please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16157	And secondly, I appeared in addition to what was said in public, related to the incorrect behaviour of the Bureau member and his, his responsible relationship, Mr Komšić, towards the budget. A man looks a lot younger than the other two members of the presidency, and as young as he is, he behaves so much more unseriously, even though it's my responsibility that the other two act completely serious. He wouldn't be able to do that kind of damage because he finds these in step, and then he does what he does. Because if you have a pledge from a member of the Bureau for everything else, I'm asking how the chairman of the Presidency, say, a lease item in the Bureau increases from 80,000 to 483,000. If we have concerns, if we have certain pro-European views, if we have, I don't know, the needs there are such as, here, you see, the chairman of the presidency, which I'm also interested in how, if he cares about the little man, as he says, then she's not just outside the Presidency building, she's not just in Europe, but here in these items, no matter how big or small they are. Every one she wears, he could show his contribution here, so he could teach us. I don't want to talk about deadlines, I'm not going to say that we had the first chance that this member of the presidency didn't do what he did, so we could have a budget before the new year. We'd have a budget a new year ago. And I remember a time when his political party, as I recall, was making a budget in June, or I don't know what period. And that's why I don't think it's right what we're talking about but, if it's already in the context of his contribution, I think his contribution to this budget story is very, very negative.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16158	Thank you. The following has been registered for discussion by the distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16159	Gentlemen, the chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, since I do not have a member of the presidency, then I will discuss it so many times, that is, here I have five amendments. I've given up on one, with the Commission's argument 59 that it's already contained in some paragraphs, and I've restored four amendments, of which, here today I'm going to draw your attention to only two, to help us finish the debate on this as soon as possible. Amendment I refers to the programme of financing refugees and displaced persons and I have added: committed to staying. In fact, 3 million KMs, I do not need to repeat that the Dayton Peace Agreement defines the right to choose the place of life of every BiH citizen, so it is at least not correct for those who have used this right in one of the possible ways to be punished in relation to others who have otherwise used it. So, according to some data, more than 13,000 reports have been collected of the destroyed assets of those who have opted to remain in the present places, from which, again, according to the data I have, more than 70% were destroyed after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which would again be a message to those who have left because of how and how to return. So I think that in the millions that are being talked about here and made available to the Ministry of Refugees and displaced persons for funding different programmes from this area, there is room for at least 10% for those who have opted for staying in the present one, and that is why I have proposed only 3 million but 3 million that should basically mean our conversion or our view of these people that they exist, not to solve all these problems that they have. Amendment II refers to direct transfers. And under number 10, I propose that an item be implemented in preparation for the census. You see, I've tried some experts in this area to consult a little bit so I can see what it means in that dynamic here agreed date in 2011. In fact, we here several times, not in this meeting but in the previous one, talked about a possible 2011 census and I think we also had suggestions from certain international institutions not to go in, so 2011 could make a census. In order for it to be implemented in 2011, it is necessary, therefore, to create one pilot project for the 2009 census, and, of course, it is necessary to allocate certain resources in order to get to that list. I'm not going to talk about the importance of the list because it's probably just the ones who put together this budget and the people of the economic profession who know best what the input parameters that are related to the census mean to get the quality, quality of these parameters. But it's not an object, and I won't talk about it. As you have seen, those who have watched this amendment are therefore foreseen a total of 9 million, out of which 150 thousand for human training, 80 thousand for the production of methodologies and instructions, 2,500 for the purchase of consumer material, the preparation of statistical infrastructures 80,000 for the preparation of adequate cartographic documentation 5 million, the purchase of equipment 3.5 million and the installation and training of human resources of 150 000, totalling 9 million. It would be good if this wasn't a political issue, but it was a matter of profession, and it would be good, if nothing else, if we open the process, once we open the process, so let's say when we're going to solve this issue. Besides this one, so I had two more amendments. One concerning export stimulation in order to reduce the external trade deficit, but given some relations and some of the amendments proposed, I will not particularly explain it, but I believe that in the coming period we will have to deal with these issues seriously, not only at entity levels but also at this level. So, very seriously tackle the issue of export stimulation in order to reduce the negative effects of the external trade deficit as much as possible. 60 I would like to invite my colleagues, especially I'm talking about the first two amendments, to seriously and responsibly consider these two items. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16160	... I've got the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16161	I thank you, but Reverend Lagumdžija, it's me, it's me.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16162	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16163	I know, but that in the Rules of Procedure falls under the same sister-in-law and member and you simply had one discussion, you had two replicas, and that's what within one item of the agenda can be allowed. I like to be principled. If we were principled in the past agenda with respect for the Rules of Procedure, then we should be doing it at this point in the agenda. The following came to the discussion, honourable MP Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16164	Thank you very much. I want to say that I have stood up and always advocated a bigger budget, and I have been on the Commission to propose, to support the Presidency's proposal 1.231,000,000, but we are in such a position as to agree on what can go through this Parliament. I want to point out, for comparisons, I said on the Commission: Croatia has a budget for 2007, Serbia 14 billion, Montenegro this year 4 billion, Macedonia 3 billion and 600, Slovenia 15 billion. Now you see where BiH is. Our entity budgets are bigger than national budgets. I remember well, I brought it, it's nothing, from last year Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's amendment: 19 amendments. This year he prescribed nine but literally all the same. Explanation from a to s all the same, absolutely. Let me, I appreciate, market economy, time, money, service, organization, so it's absolutely the same. I'm just sorry, I supported this last year, all economical has a resonance, I supported, you remember, I voted for your half of the amendment, but this, in my opinion, is a classic demagogy. I'll tell you right now, this is why, I, I love... the 20th session of the Parliamentary Commission on Finance and Budget, Mr Lagumdžija, you've only been to two sessions. One was 10 minutes and last, when it was budget, an hour. This year he didn't even have the decency to come, and he's proposing amendments. Well, if he had come, maybe he would have adopted something, there are some... amendments here, and that's the attitude to it. Well, here you go, fellow ministers taking an oath, deputies, colleague Zlatko Lagumdžija leaving, even... 61
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16165	This is the budget point, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16166	I am talking about the relationship of my colleague, Zlatko Lagumdžija, to this parliament and the citizens of BiH. Hey, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16167	Please don't throw it away. I warned you, please stick to the agenda, let's move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16168	They didn't lie, they lied. The people see it, the people punish you with every election, see the people as you do. You can't, you can't lie to these... who just wave their heads, you can't lie to me and the people. In my opinion, I think this is pure political demagogy and these amendments. If he truly wanted to, he'd come to the Commission and try to enter at least one amendment. And what you're suggesting is utopia. When the SDP has power, in the entity of the RS and the Federation, of the state, I will be the happiest to be 50 billion budgets for BiH or to be... but it cannot, Mr Lagumdžija, you must understand the reality. Hands speak, sick, you can say whatever you want, democracy... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16169	Dear MPs, I, I no longer have any more applications to debate. Dear Ambassador Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16170	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I've had two amendments. In one I asked for 500 million marks to encourage agriculture, and in the other I asked 200 million marks for the next municipal elections to pay voters the cost of going out, and thus to encourage democracy. Unfortunately, neither amendment has been adopted on the Commission, and the budget we have today cannot objectively meet the needs of the citizens and the economy of BiH, especially when we are looking at the external trade deficit. We've received all the analysis from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. I don't know if anyone's here to look at her. Especially when we look at agriculture, where we are in '99. the year had a deficit of 1.262,000,000, and today, in fact, last year we ended up with 2,211,000,000 62 marks of imports of agricultural products. It is all the goods we can produce in BiH without any major problems. In order for the alarm to be higher, export coverage is only 15%, and since '99. Until today, by last year, practically this coverage has increased from five to 15 and, if we go at such a pace, in about 90 years, we could have a balanced exchange in agricultural products. We also discussed agriculture in this parliament last year, ratified a CEFTA agreement that further liberalises the BiH market. A Stabilisation and Association Agreement has been parafirati, and we want it to be signed now, and that is necessary, and should be done as soon as possible, but it also carries additional trade liberalisation alongside the good side. Some trade agreement comes into force as soon as the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is signed, which means that this year our market will be exposed even more than last year. This was about measures to be taken: that entities would increase the incentive for agriculture, that it would be in somewhat more significant amounts. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. And realistically, in this year we can expect a major decline in agricultural production if something is not done in that direction. For this reason, I would also appeal to the Council of Ministers to see what it can do in the coming period if, through some budget rebalances, if not done by entities, certain funds to encourage agriculture are provided at the level of the BiH state. For all these reasons, for the People's Party working for a improvement, this budget is not acceptable and I will not be able to support this budget today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16171	Thank you. The Honorable First Vice-President Mr. Lozančić, pa Dolić, pa Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16172	I thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, here I am going to try briefly, although I think this renewed amendment is very clear. Respecting that there was a strong will in the Presidency to encourage a significant return and help the returnees, that it was also recognised in the Council of Ministers' proposal, in our parliamentary debate, my intention was only to help the rest of this year through targeted support for a number of municipalities, to know where it is, to be able to prepare a quality programme and not to come into a position at the end of this year to have unrealised funds, because I am convinced that in these municipalities that I have proposed here to target a part of the means of this, to allow them to create quality programs in time, to implement the same programs. Well, here I expect you to support this intention. Thank you very much. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16173	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16174	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I thought today not to waste my time and your time on the 2008 Budget debate, but I can't do it at this stage, when obviously the budget is set within the parliamentary majority, and not to repeat that the adoption of the Budget is an example of not working well, an example of not having the resources of taxpayers. I will try not to repeat what I said during the debate in the first budget reading. One who can slightly enter into a professional analysis of the structure of this budget and the budgets of other levels of government can reasonably conclude that this country cannot go green in a situation where between 60% and 70% of the budget is spent on public spending, and in the normal world it is some kind of limit up to 40%. Anyone who knows is then clearly why so much unemployment, why so much poverty, why so much crime and so much lagging behind for all the countries in the region. I didn't deliver the amendments for preventing and cutting that deadline, and if I had delivered, here's how it would have gone, then I better not have delivered it. What is quite clear, we have a consumer and electoral budget and all the messages that we have listened to and in the procedure of its adoption, from advocacy for more funds to return, for science and education to advocacy for less administrative costs at the state level, are simply electoral messages to get citizens back to being thirsty across the water. These few amendments, adopted by the Council of Ministers and this Finance Commission, went in the direction of reducing the material costs and pay costs of budget beneficiaries, and this is being promoted to all bells, and it is forgotten that the costs and number of staff in the budget are a great potential for the manipulation of such species. It is hypocritical, first of all, to unreally increase the allocations for material costs, wages and administration, and then to generously reduce it. Both in this budget and in the budgets of all other levels of government, the effects of VAT and the increase of income instead of incentivising and financing development, we focused on spending and financing the administration. Of course, it is also a neglected and social aspect that gets wider and harder dimensions from day to day in BiH. I will not vote for this budget because I do not think it is in the spirit of stabilising opportunities in BiH and contributing to further destruction in the social and economic sphere of life. This approach to budgeting simply cannot bring anything good for BiH and its citizens. Budget spending claims must be curbed in favour of development and for the benefit of BiH's social stabilisation. This budget is not on the background, and BiH will suffer more and more severe consequences as a result. What is positive at this point is that BiH finally gets the budget and disappears a neural point around which much energy is spent and which also burdens the political scene, as well as the citizens of BiH. Of course, this act is in the hands of the parliamentary majority. Thank you very much. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16175	Thank you. No more reports. And, Reverend Bećirović, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16176	I also reported about the six amendments I delivered. But I would like to say, first of all, that the Finance and Budget Committee should have arrived at all the amendments on time and within the deadline to present an invitation to attend the Commission's session, given that the call, here, specifically to me, arrived at 5 p.m. on Friday night, and the Commission was scheduled for tomorrow morning. That's a little unusual. I have six amendments. The first amendment: concerns a 1m KM reduction in travel costs in the institutions of the BiH state. I think they're unwarrantedly tall. With the second amendment, within the Directorate for European Integration, I propose increasing the amount by 300,000 KM. I remind Parliament that at last session we also adopted a resolution on the acceleration of BiH's accession to EU membership, and that it is expected that this year we will sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which will certainly impose new obligations. The third amendment: concerns an increase in funds for the BiH Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments of 200,000 KM. I have to say, the situation in this area is worrying right now. I think it's really necessary to raise funds for this area. The fourth amendment: it refers to an increase in the BiH Archives of 300 000 KM. The BiH archive represents the country's national treasure and its peoples. I mean, it really is necessary to provide additional funding for the BiH Archives to function as well as the archives of other countries. The fifth amendment, therefore, refers to the construction of Srdjan Aleksic's monument in Trebin. It's one more symbolic sum of 20,000 KM. And I also remind the House of Representatives that at the 10th session of 13 June 2007, we adopted an initiative tasking the Council of Ministers to help financially build this monument, so this amendment is not just my amendment. I did, but it's actually a realisation of the adopted Initiative at the Parlanament House. And the sixth amendment: it refers to an increase in the funds planned for the construction of the Srebrenica Memorial Centre, so in Potocari, which represents one moral human obligation by all BiH institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16177	Dear Ambassador Bahtić: Another replica, you are right. Here you go. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16178	...provoked here by the Commission, I must answer, fellow Bećirović. He says the Finance Commission and the budget met on Saturday, not getting a call. I don't know, at the request of the College, we met on Saturday. It just says how much the Finance and Budget Commission is, how serious they are, how serious they think the budget, even on Saturdays to work, not everyone, unfortunately. I hope that the SDP is organized by one serious party. I thought this member of the Commission would notify. Obviously, you've been cleared up in all the fields. And you say Saturday, normal colleague of Lagumdžija
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16179	Take it easy, don't throw it away. Please, let's finish this point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16180	We met, did the job to get the BiH citizens budget today. That's why we're on Saturdays, and it's not hard for us on Sundays, unlike you who would be happy today if it wasn't for the budget on the agenda. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16181	Thank you. Since there's no assistant, I'd have to give myself my word. [[Common discussion]] Thank you. Just for a little while. It means there wouldn't be any misunderstanding when the amendments were voted. In fact, I am pleased that the Ministry, along with our commission, has managed to reduce the indicative budget to that number that is acceptable and that does not go beyond the interventions of the Directorate for Direct Taxation more than this year can be done. At the same time, we have been in favour of some amendments, however, the issue of the purpose of proposing such amendments is raised, if, for example, the decision that has been proposed by the SNSD Club has not passed, so that the Council of Ministers is empowered to move from the prepared stock to the census, so that these funds could also be planned in the budget itself. No one would be happier than me if it finally did, for the simple reason I went and wrote some dissertation, and I need you to get information. However, it is not realistic to put something that will not be supported here, as it has not received support from the congregation’s majority. On the other hand, we at the SNSD felt that the projected funds for the refugee and displaced persons item, in our opinion, were concerned that these funds would be spent, i.e. that we had to respect the Law on Refugees, which stated that the programmes had to be financed, which must go through the Commission, or through the Return Office, and we believe that we could come into a situation so that these funds would not be spent in this year, and we care about being spent and the legal procedure being followed, so that we believe that this small 66 repair to that part of us has made it possible for these funds to be actually spent. Here, in principle, we're for this budget, with these little changes we're proposing. On the other hand, the conclusion that Honorable Ambassador Nanić suggested? If you see the conclusion of last year that we adopted, it's on that same background. Perhaps we should just repeat that this conclusion should be respected, that a plan should be made, that the accommodation of BiH institutions is important, that every year huge sums are not allocated to the lease, that we also solve this problem in our building, the problem with the accommodation of MPs and staff, so that we too feel that BiH's institution is being re-examined in this year and the lease amounts that are increasing and larger each year. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zorić has come forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16183	I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues. I will immediately say that me and my colleague Raguž will support this budget, that we also support the conclusion of my colleague Husein Nanić and I would ask that you now put to a vote what I have already proposed, so that we are voting on the Budget and now. The same my request will be for first reading, so for the next two laws. And I'd like to introduce a practice to vote on sets, so we do other readings, we vote. Let's do first reading, vote. And then the rest, so the laws, they still have to be excluded from everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16184	Thank you. As far as your request is concerned, we have made a small consultation in the College and I would like to inform you in the following way. We do not think it would be good to introduce a practice of introducing a permanent conclusion that a vote on a particular item of the agenda should be held afterwards, for the simple reason that we will break our conclusion that this House together has made that after all the debates take place after the vote, because some MPs, after the completion of the examination of the legislative projects or those who are interesting, the points of the agenda, are leaving and we do not have a way to hold them to vote afterwards. By contrast, some MPs have been having an unusually long discussion and then extend our agenda. I think it is better for this parliament to work more efficiently to discuss all the points of the agenda, and then to schedule a time when it will vote. It's the Kolegijum's position on your proposal. I'd like to ask the finance minister if you need to say after these discussions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16185	Thank you. I have no intention of explaining the amendments individually. They were on the Commission. It's a matter of the Commission, not me, the Ministry. Two or three things... I understand what Parliament is, 67 policies, messages, etc. I think it was the most but it's your right and, let me apologize for commenting on this. A few things that are true here, which I, as minister, notice. A lot of amendments are not valid, is they not set in spirit, as they must be set, so they are not correct, large numbers. I read that one more time... before I said it. On the other hand, it is often proposed for what resolute users or ministries or budget users have not shown at all, nor do they have in their plan and programme. So now we're what, is, much more caring than they are by themselves and we're opening their eyes that we should do it. I mean, it's not standing. On the other hand, there are also a lot of technical things that are explained, here as the distinguished representative Kalabić said, I don't know, with members of the Bureau or members, however, increased costs, these are technical things. They weren't increased because the Office in The Hague was like a special purpose program, and now it's back because of ours, is it, the view that we're doing it differently in the budget user and, when he moved to him, then it turns out that the costs went up, so every item needs to be in there a little bit, as they say, to interpret it and to give the right measure to it. The third thing, even when it comes to the monument initiative, for Alexic in Trebinj. According to that conclusion, the Council of Ministers reacted and tasked me as minister to resolve the proposal. I want to inform you that I have had correspondence from my office with the head of the municipality in Trebinj and after a long time, here's the understanding of the circumstances, the decision is over. I think that if not tomorrow at the Council of Ministers, next Thursday, 20 thousand or 25, here's no, 20, here's a colleague, 20 thousand marks stand out but we had a problem – because we didn't get correspondence with them – where to pay, who's going to run this project, etc. So here's why it isn't, and I think there's a lot of interoperability in our budget that everything that turns out to be necessary and necessary, either in these European ways that we all want to follow, it's obvious here, we have enough space to satisfy all of that. And that's why I think that in one such way, with one elastic approach, and with the Council of Ministers' programme and us here, I think we can do all the tasks, if there's a political will for it. Here, I would ask you to do what is least possible or necessary in the moment to reach the budget, it is the greatest aid to BiH institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16186	Thank you. Here, honourable MP Zorić, after hearing the position of the Kolegijum and the opinion that we are doing so, are you giving up that request, so that we may continue the debate on the other laws?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16187	I'm not giving up. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16188	Please make Dom aware that after this, we may be able to make a negative practice, but I can also put on the proposal of the honourable Member of Zorić, please. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16189	So I'd like to ask my colleague Zorić. Look, the worst thing is when we change the rules of the game during the game. The rules need to be known, and we didn't accidentally adopt the Rules of Procedure and say that we would do so. And wherever possible, in all situations – this Parliament can of course change its conclusion, it can change its Rules of Procedure now and it is worth three minutes – until we do this, but don't do it. I don't think there's any need. I think we opted for this way to vote after we finish the agenda. Today there was a valid reason for this point and indeed was a unanimous attitude of the College. So we have to look at situations like this what these three people who run this together think. That's their attitude. I'm asking my colleague to drop out, so this stays in the end so we don't change the rules of the game from case to case. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16190	Thank you. I don't think there's anything left for us then but to conclude the debate on this agenda point, to move to the third item of the agenda: Ad. 3. Bill on Independent Supervisory Authorities of BiH Police Structure The bill, as I said at the beginning of the session, was delivered in procedure on February 15th. The constitutional law commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis on 18 February. The competent Commission for Defence and Security, as you can see, has delivered its report today. I propose to the MPs that and the fourth item of the agenda: "Ad." 4. Bill on Police Authority Coordination Directorates and BiH Police Structure Support Agency
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16193	Here, I'll leave it to Mr. Izetbegović and then I will. As president of the club, let Mr. Izetbegović, so I will say something in the name of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16194	I don't have an electronic presence here. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16195	So, we know if, over three years, the debate is about the united police, police reform. Such police need not only the citizens and the peoples of BiH and each of those people, because they also guarantee a Srbin in Sarajevo that they will feel safe here and returnees to Drin and returnees in various other parts of BiH. It also guarantees Europe that when one day BiH is admitted to the EU that it will have one country that guarantees that there will be no terrorism, trade, or that it will be much less, that it will be much safer than its evil, with one real police reform. So we had a vlašićki deal, so we had Martinez's plan, so we had the work of the Police Reform Directorate, which cost us almost half a million marks and a year or two work days, etc., and then Lajcak's proposal, and then some agreement by Silajdžić – Dodik, so I don't remind us. Every time there were fewer and fewer real reforms in these materials. It's a leak between your fingers. What we have now, even strangers don't hide, is not that reform at all anymore. She stepped down from those three basic principles. So, we know, the SDA knows what... stabilisation, association, accession, is, what this agreement means, what the continuation of the European path means. However, we simply cannot raise our hand for something called reform, which is not. We understand these others who think differently, judge differently from us, because politics is all compromise, especially in BiH. So, the SDA will vote against these laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16196	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Džaferović, did you want to? Here you go. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16197	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, if you look at these opinions of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, you will see that these opinions, in relation to the opinions we have received on the bench so far, are atypical for the reason that, in terms of these two laws, we are practically, instead of two opinions on two laws, we have four opinions on two laws. Unconventional, I'm just getting up to say that thing here. I will, of course, vote against these laws, because here's the president of my club who presented the reasons that we in the U.S.A. are handling when our relationship with these two laws is at stake. But I would ask that – therefore, all those who feel that these laws should be passed and who rush them all together – some things in this haste do not lead to absurdity. I mean, this is an absurd situation today to meet this committee in the morning at half nine, to have 10 members of the Commission, to have a debate and after a debate with five votes "yes", and five votes "against" to determine the Commission's negative position under the laws. And it's not absurd because it was here scheduled, it was a little hasty, but the Commission said what she had to say. After that, there's one thing that I can't do and I can't shut up. So I have to make it public here. The Commission's members are again invited to meet again here at the request of the College, although the session is over and, justifying this by the need of the Bosnian-Herzegovina European path, requires the Commission to re-emerge on the same things. So, twice to vote on one thing, I think it's something this Parliament shouldn't allow itself. And of course, it happens, it's correctly written everything that was in the reports. After we have warned that we who think differently cannot make the same statement twice, and that the House does not make a statement between the pleas and not to give appropriate instructions, and not to the College, the Commission's session is continued. The rest is there, as far as I can tell from the report, seven members. And with six votes "yes", one vote "against", it found a completely different opinion than that of the previous session. I don't think this is good because, look, in everything we do, it's very important to stick to some procedures. Democracy, after all, is in many ways a procedure. The procedure differs from anarchy in the good part, and I think this Parliament should take that into account. How would you feel about, say, coming into a position like this, coming to a session, so if it was meant to be done like this, then why didn't it have time to think about it? When the meeting was scheduled at half past nine, why didn't most people think about it? But here, later on, one goes, the other comes, that I don't speak now, at a session, it's obvious that maybe there's a passageway there and there's a session of the Commission that has this opinion. As you will deal with this opinion, you are a College, I really don't know, I shouldn't engage in giving advice but I had a need to stand up and condemn such a practice and to protest publicly against such practices. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16198	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zorić. Here you go. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16199	So much for the principle of fellow Džaferović. So, he said here that, once voted, you shouldn't vote again. I'm warning him here that he just remember the session of this home he ran when after two hours the same thing was re-voted. When 5-6-10 points passed, he was returning to vote on the same thing again, and then there was no problem. Today, we were voted to plead on the first point, after the first point, and this was not a question for a colleague of Džaferović at all, nor was it a question of dispute, nor did I suggest voting on the second wheel, after the second point, he wipes it out with a rubber. And you, unfortunately, accept that as such. That's nice.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16200	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Džaferović: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16201	Dear colleague Zorić! So, every case is a case for yourself and I'm asking you to analyse every case and every situation, and at least try to get or at least say the right information. So, never as head of the dom or as chairman of the Commission, Šefik Džaferović has done anything similar to what was done this morning. It is, therefore, in the last session of Parliament, in one case when the agreement was roughly played. It was, if you remember, about those excises, I know, I know, I know, that's why I'm telling you this, but in the House session that was not led by Šefik Džaferović, I was your party colleague, and I was the vice chairman. So that's the facts, that's the truth. After a rough deal on three groups covered by the Excise Act was struck, we have witnessed it, and we who were in the previous assembly of Parliament, but at the same session of Parliament, before the same fellow Members who had voted before. Today's session of the Commission is over. We left the O.R. and then the session was called up and another call came in. I needed to explain this, so you wouldn't get what Mr. Zorić was talking about wrongly. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16202	The word has been respected by Mr. Milorad Živković for some clarifications.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16203	Let me give you a little clarification about what's going on today. I'm aware of the importance of the moment we have here today. And, also, as I was aware of the importance of the moment when we were working on a very important reform, which was a defence reform, witnesses, those who were in that assembly, in this House, including me and Mr Džaferović, Mr Zorić, but also Mr Križanović and Lagumdžija: my amendment was put to the vote five times 72, and five times this parliament accepted, so that it would then agree that it is not okay that one such important reform for one such amendment would pass. And also, I think that because of the importance of this reform, it is not good to call for formal reasons, if we have a higher goal in front of our eyes. And that is why I invite all MPs in this direction to discuss today and bring this session to an end. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić: Replica. Anybody else got a line? There isn't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16204	Dear Chairman, I must say a few words, since I was a member of the Commission. I feel sorry for this position that Mr. Džaferović was brought into, given that it is very difficult to talk in these places about principles and principles, respecting the people's: Whoever is lying with the children knows how to get up. And that should apply to all of us. We had a legitimate majority on this committee, a legitimate majority. Here there is the political will of the majority to be brought like this. If in another way, in some way, some kind of forgeries, or I don't know whose, I'd be the first to react, to say, that's the problem. At the request of the Kolegijum, a meeting of the Commission was convened at which it was decided. It's decided how it's made up its mind. Is – that was all right this morning, and I am not going to ask the technical question now – how is the session scheduled at 8:30, which has been consulted that some MPs do not arrive at the session, so we can also discuss it, but the bottom line is that these people have made a perfectly legitimate statement and we have had the result of what we had. Not even at the first session, given that you saw what the result was, so there was no other majority opposite of this, so that now we say that it is, but in these details, people who were not present, used their right to be, in this new vote, for this time, while I am in Parliament and I think, Mr Džaferović, that you are giving yourself one big task, given that you are in a lot of places where you are leading the commission, that it will be very difficult and that it will remind you of this, and I would not now take examples, because if the Rules of Procedure respect and the rules of procedure, then we respect them. Then we respect them. There's no exception. And if the exception applies to you, or I don't see any reason why it doesn't apply to this commission, I don't see why it doesn't apply to me, to Mr. Zorić or anyone else. I didn't expect you, since you were prone to these exhibitions, and I was present a few times when we repeated the vote, which, previously, if we wanted your argument, was completely legitimate. I would remind you that we voted on the CEFTA Act. How last year we had a vote on Budget and I don't know a couple of times either. We shouldn't get in there looking for arguments when we know we're thin. We do not stand best with respect for procedures, with respect for our rules of play, but what is most important to me is that in this commission there was no question of political will for this decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16205	Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16206	Short. Go ahead, you, Mr. Kalabić, and respected colleagues, wherever you see, if I'm running something, in some commission, some working body, to violate the procedure, turn your attention. I won't be mad at you at all. Just so you know, what happened today could never happen to me. That's it. And don't, please, make it right. Turns out now, we can do this because Džaferović was inclined to do the same thing earlier, while he was chairman, while leading this commission. Please don't. Well, I mean, we'll go far. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16207	I'll read the list now. So, of course, Honorable Ambassador Hadži Jovan Mitrović, so Dokić, Lagumdžija, Križanović, Ahmetović, Novaković. Here you go. First comes Honorary Ambassador Hadži Jovan Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16208	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I received these two laws today. I've been able to look at what's going on and what's happening today with the Council of Ministers, I've already said something about what's on our agenda today. At least it should've waited seven days and continued with the transfer of authority. I know that some people are angry that powers are not transferred 100%, but for me and a small step is a big step, because once you break the Constitution, you break it for good. It's very difficult to get back to the original state. I won't comment on these laws by members. I don't see anything here that my colleagues in the U.S.A. are worried about. I see what we should agree on because this is completely in that direction for me and for the Democratic People's Union, which I represent here in this House. Invoke myself, I will comment on this, appeal to the constitutional basis contained in Article IV. point 4. The BiH Constitution, I think anything you pass, anything proposed by the Council of Ministers or anyone, calls for that member, and he says, making the laws necessary for the implementation of decisions, etc. What decision? If we're already transferring some of the jurisdiction from the entity, don't get me wrong, that I'm against it working at the state level, I'm against the way it's done. So we need to erase it with the entity's constitutions. Why are we afraid of that, if we sincerely want to make BiH work. We're going to be in a position to ask the question: how are we going to do it in the constitutions, how are we going to replace these constitutions, and how are we going to explain what I said to the public, how are we going to explain, how did we get there, and why did someone on the side make us do it? Don't just talk the way, there's no European way of an alternative. You'll see if there is. And I'm going to compare just one more law that's a little vague for me, where the government here is an entity of the RS, when it comes to the law, the opinion on the proposal for a law on agriculture, nutrition, etc., clearly says, that's something else in 2006, if something hasn't changed, and it hasn't changed, because it was on the agenda, where it says: there's no constitutional basis. The basis points to the preamble of this Article 4 because it is called here on this. And it is called there to the Constitution of RS Article 68. I specifically tell my fellow Members who have received votes from those who have been to this Constitution as it is, which is in function, in accordance with Article 68, I don't know 74 point this applies here to point 8, and as far as this is concerned, I'm talking about point 2. Defense and security. She's always there, as long as we don't change the Constitution. And this is what I consider to be a transfer of powers, no matter how you explain it, but here, it's the right of most people to do it, it's the right of my colleagues to do it. We'll vidićeti how it ends in the end. That's it. I'll be against it for that reason, against this law and both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16209	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16210	Mr. Chairman, when it comes to this, when it comes to these two laws, it should be full responsibility for their fate to share both the position and the opposition, given that it is a major strategic step BiH should take, and this is the opening of the door for the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I don't know how many times we've all sworn priorities here that are related to European integration, and it's undeniable that we all want this path to be faster, and I believe that at least 90% of us here are looking forward to it as some basic prerequisite for stabilising political relations within BiH and I think I share the opinion of most of my colleagues that this will really happen when we move faster towards the EU. The question, of course, is greater responsibility here at those parties whose party leaders signed two very important documents. You know very well that based on these two documents within 48 hours in Brussels, they decided to paralyze the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Nevertheless, today we have heard some interpretations of what it is, whether it is a gift, or whether it is the result of something! It doesn't matter. But here we are doing, if we do not honor what is agreed here in these two papers, we will fail those who have very kindly understood what is important to BiH, and not only have they understood but have reacted extremely quickly on these issues. So, give us a hand, give us a chance to unblock one process that's been holding us back for four years, for these or those reasons. For four years, we've been spinning around what's called police reform. And we all know that with these two laws, we don't end up reforming the police. That's nicely said, and it's written in these two documents. I cannot understand what these party leaders and their members sitting here read and analyzed, among other things, in the interface between the time these two documents were signed, one in Mostar on 28.10., the other in Sarajevo on 22.11. So, more than a month between these two papers was. And there was really a lot of time about every detail to think about. I therefore want to remind you that in the Mostar Declaration it is explicitly written that the structure of BiH's single police forces will correspond to the country's constitutional structure. So, first, here is the constitutional structure of the BiH police force and... to respond to the constitutional structure. Furthermore, the next stance says: The new and reformed police structure of BiH will be based on the relevant provisions of the BiH Constitution that will follow through the constitutional reform process. On these two stands is an Action Plan, in which at point 1st subparagraph (a) stands 75 explicitly, the establishment of state bodies at BiH level, so it lists those bodies, not to bother you, and these bodies are covered by these two laws. Furthermore, under point (b) of this same material, which again signed all six party leaders who make up the assembly majority here, says, I must quote: The local level, as part of BiH's single police structure, will be regulated after reform of the Constitution, in accordance with the principles of the European Commission, the Mostar Declaration, and the Law on the Police Service of BiH and the Law on....The BiH Service will be adopted no later than one year after the introduction of a new constitution. So it explicitly states here that the full reform ends and continues, in fact, after the adoption of new constitutional amendments that will be launched in the coming period. That is why I am really asking the question of the MPs of a party whose leader is – and I would not like one party, I apologize now, I am going back, asking all MPs – whose leaders of their parties signed this document which is explicitly clear, not ambiguously focused, what should have been done during this period to paraphrase, or signing, after paraphrasing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I think if this doesn't go away today, we're playing with the trust of those who obviously think more of our position in the long term than we think of ourselves. I want to say one thing here. You can agree with him, you don't have to agree with him! It seems to me that some of us here care more about the opposition, their own parties, within their people, than in the position of the entire state and of all peoples, here's what we think is a priority, which is European integration. I hope that our people too have matured and will not reward such an approach as here in past times, when it comes to key issues, perhaps even rewarded. I hope that there is a time behind us that will not be repeated and that the citizens have matured, and that in the first elections they will punish precisely those who do not directly contribute to BiH's moving faster steps both in its development and towards Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16211	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16212	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since my colleague Adem is asking me if I'm ready to do this, I'm not going to read all this stuff I've prepared. I'll deliver some things to stay in the archives. First, it takes you years to figure this out, so just get started on time. I, what my friend Beriz would say, must start with a previous question. From what Mr Džaferović said, and as I know it, it would be good if later on, you didn't have to tell me right away, because in these two reports we have practically four reports of two materials we have heard. It would be good if it weren't like she talks to the Rules of Procedure, if we all voted, because everyone reads differently. Therefore, we adopt the second part of each of these two reports, if I understand you well, not the report as a whole, because the report in general is in the first 76 part of the collision with itself in the second part, so we have a little technical problem. In order not to spoil your entertainment afterwards, it would be good for you who have decided to vote for the Report, or for these two laws and push them further, to clarify it to yourself first, because you need to get to the second reading. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Clear up, okay. I think you'll need to make it clear to the public, but if you've made it clear to yourself, it'll be easier for the public. I am sorry, I must admit, so I must admit that I am sorry that, with these two laws and these two, or four reports, you have not put the SNSD Declaration of Responsibility, because these two reports are a practical contribution to the Declaration of Responsibility offered by the SNSD and they are in fact the first explication of this declaration of responsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16214	That's not the point of the agenda, but it will be.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16215	No, but what they say in English is that this, Mr. Živković, is clear to you. I can, but you can't party for BiH without you, you let me. No, no, eh, if we have clarified this procedure, I must admit, I really thank this here from NGOs, I am sorry that there are no more representatives of international organisations here, first of all, the OHR and the EU because to watch this today's Parliament and to actually see in the mirror and their shame. History today ends in the first act of police reform. Three years ago, this whole thing started. Three years ago, the EU gave us a three-metre flier to jump and knock her down, knock her down, knock her down, and now she's down three centimeters and she says, "Come on, please skip this." And we're never going to bring that bar down. So from three metres down to three centimetres. This is a betrayal of European principles. The second thing is that the High Representative and others will say that they are not the ones to interpret European principles but somebody explain to me, from the High Representative, so ask, I will ask him when I see him, the EU ambassador. Where here, where is the principle here that all the budgetary powers for the police are at the level of BiH, where does it say here? Where does it say that all BiH's legislative powers are at BiH level? Where does it say there's no political influence here, where does it say that? I'm going to give you a concrete example of where it says everything's the opposite. I call on the High Representative and warn that we will raise the issue at the Constitutional Court of BiH, and then at the Court of Justice in Strasbourg, and then send a letter to the Venice Commission, because here in one, only in one law you have an article 4. The Act on Independent Supervisory Authorities of the Police Structure, found it, article 4, which speaks of the structure of the Independent Committee, is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. You can vote here not for nothing. It will come to the Constitutional Court, it will come to Strasbourg, it will come, and then let the High Representative explain that he interprets it like this, that this is in 77 harmony. This isn't. I in this House have the right to say so, and he can do after what he wants, but this is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. Our foreign minister cannot be a member of this Independent Committee tomorrow, for example, because the Independent Committee has three Srbin, three Hrvat and three Bošnjak, just an example. And that's what someone said, what are you saying, that a man is a Hrvat, is he? No, I mean, I'm serious. So, please, we have a direct law here that is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms and we have that to be a condition to tell us, we interpret. Well, you can interpret it, but again, if anyone thinks they'll convince me that this is a European principle, I'm sorry. I mean, try to explain something to you. So, Mr. Chairman, I believe this is a betrayal of European principles. I believe this is the betrayal of the pre-election promises of the ruling coalition's main coalition. To be honest, you should congratulate, here's to congratulating the SNSD: you did it! What, you did it. You did it, you did it! All the things you've been yelling for three years that he can't, he really can't right now. You found who will tell you that whoever was saying that said they would do 100% of BiH. Here we have 100% legalization of RS police, of all existing institutions, and that's fine from the point of view of part of the ruling coalition. No problem. And that's what the public needs to know. Since it is said here that we will get this signature for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, so why don't we invite the EU to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement because, as some diplomats say to me, because you're rebelling against this, this is certainly nothing, and you'll get something. What do I get? I'll get a Stabilisation and Association signature. Great. So, you ask me to sign anything and you and I pretend it's something, and then we go in with the signature.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16216	Don't throw yourself away, please. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16217	You're right. Mr. Chairman, I suggest that today we reject these laws... and show that there is enough honor and face in us to say: This is not in line with three European principles, this is not in line with the principles that we all advocate! We are not making police here to deal with crime, but we are making seven institutions that will sit on the coat of arms of the Budget of BiH, and everything will remain the same, from the level of Brcko and the entity to the last police administration. So, I'm against making fools of us, even if it was a high representative with a complete international community, provided there's what's called an international community with its unique position, but that's a question, as they say, for another audience. There's always someone who'll ask what you said. So, Mr. Chairman, I don't think there's any reason to waste any more time here. We need this, as they say, by emergency procedure, to refuse, so that we can work seriously on this. Then, to be very clear, this is about someone who claims he doesn't know, to confirm again, and there are people who really don't know, this isn't about police reform. This is about seven BiH-level institutions that will hang around the SIPA, about those with railways guarding ministers, DGS. In addition to the existing education institutions in entities, another institution is being created here, so it is now unclear whether the 78 educational institutions at BiH level will be valid for the lower police and whether those educational institutions, the lower police, will apply to those people who are employed upstairs. That's also unclear. That's one little technical detail. So, here not only do we build a new administration, we pay for a new administration, but it crashes with itself, and all the existing, everything remains the same. I'm surprised to you, gentlemen of the Party for BiH, that you think we're so silly that this amendment of yours, this amendment of yours, which is not an amendment to repairing the situation, is an amendment to further concreteizing the position of your coalition partners who beat you. Don't be alive saving us with that amendment yet. That amendment is only a pinning of the existing state, an extra nail to attach, because that amendment says that, if it is, if Bog gives, one day when you make a new constitution that you promised
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16218	We're not in the amendments yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16219	It was that discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16220	Not yet, these are principles only. Today is about principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16221	And... principles?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16222	It's not an amendment at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16223	Mr. Živković, I was in this whole hurry – and the Council of Ministers, and the budget, and these system laws – took and read what was being prepared for this, and saw what was coming. I say we immediately warn ourselves of everything together: the amendment, so I appreciate it when the president of the biggest Bosniak party comes out, or, excuse me, when the president comes out, a member of the presidency of the Bosniak people, and when he says we will not agree to this unless you adopt the amendment! I'm having a discussion with the man's amendment right now, so we don't make a mess here like you just did with that budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16224	Wait a minute, please. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16225	Thank you, Bog, Beriz, for finally remembering to say that we don't mention members of the presidency when your member of the presidency isn't mentioned.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16226	Please, just a minute. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16227	Thank you. Let me sit down. I hope tomorrow, when someone fires like the last dog on Željko Komšić, that you will treat him as well as you will to me now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16228	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16229	That's what I'm done with. No need. Issue of European principles, issue of 100% BiH!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16230	Wait a minute, Berize.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16231	...goodbye, nail the press and let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16232	Please, honourable Member Hadžiahmetović had a business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16233	Here, I would remind my colleague Lagumdžija that there are two laws ahead of us, and I think it would be good to focus his discussion on the content of the laws and arguments that were well spoken of, but that they are not dealing with the Party for BiH, by projecting or by surprise of the Party for BiH, especially not to mention amendments that no one has yet received here at the stage when we are not even talking about the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16234	Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Did you need a replica? Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16235	I thought later in the discussion, however, since Mr Lagumdžija has shown such a degree of anxiety, and I don't know what it is, and I have to react to this story about European principles. Who knows which time we're here trying to be more Catholic than the Pope, as they say. We're talking about something that isn't ours. Here, Mr. Lagumdžija says don't be a member of the Presidency or, I don't know, one way or another, and here we have attitudes, at this point, people from Europe who wrote principles, whose principles are principles, and who say this is good. They brought it to you, this is not homework, but Europe and Europe now say this is good. You have the right to a personal relationship, you have the right to say that it will never be good for you, but I think that 80 is the highlight of political insolence, after so many years of talking about Europe, that now suddenly for you Europe has made a mistake. And suddenly, only you smart, Europe doesn't apply, she doesn't know what her principles are. And if she didn't know, it's not cultural to comment on what she doesn't know about herself. Where from, the internal capacity of BiH now so much, that we comment on the story in this way. So we can talk about the relationship, but it's very incorrect European principles all of a sudden, when it's the field we're on, where it's very slippery. We can talk about our attitudes. As far as I know at this point that all relevant European institutions, those that are interesting to us, say this is good, bring this, you will have a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is the most important document in BiH. I'm from you, Mr. Lagumdžija, I've been listening to this for a long time every day, you asked us to do this. Now that we're one step ahead of that, the unseen fear that we're going to do it. Another thing, and I'll end it. Do I understand that, and knowing that there is an agreement in BiH, whether for some reason you agree with the current situation, here's the thing, and it suits us. If it suits you, and in this way you say you're working on it, that this is so bad that it's proposed and that it's better to remain in its existing state, here I agree with you. If we can meet at that point, touch the dots, don't get into what's so bad, we'll have what's right now, if that's better. So if that's the result of this whole story, so be it. We of the SNSD are no longer able to make any more of what we're giving today.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16236	Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16237	Mr. Chairman, this is, I called in a replica earlier during my discussion with my colleague Lagumdžija. It may not be necessary for this replica because it itself was replicated later in the discussion. Actually, here's the thing, when I got my word, I'd say what I was thinking. He said the first principle of the European Commission has been failed that all legislative and budgetary competences are at the state level. I wanted to tell you, and I was just saying: this is just the first step of police reform. This step is fully in line and in the spirit of this principle. We're passing a state-level law. Malopre before I said that my colleague Lagumdžija was replicating himself, he just said, and what are we going to get? We're making new institutions that will burden the state budget. So this is the best confirmation that here the first European principle is fully satisfied. I don't want to talk about other things. I think it's the responsibility of these six parties to reach one concept relatively quickly. Once again I say, this is the first step, so that we understand each other about this reform. The first step in this reform but a step that can be five miles big for other reform processes awaiting the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in BiH. And if it wasn't for that, maybe I'd be against some solutions here and I'd say, what my colleague Kalbić says, let's keep it the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16238	Replica, the second deputy chairman, Mr. Belkić. Here you go. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16239	So the replica is the way Mr. Lagumdžija was discussing. So it's about the debate in the first reading. For my inexplicable reasons, I can simply say that it's a kind of pathological intolerability of others. Mr. Lagumdžija in the debate about first reading, not knowing at all how anyone will behave and what who, I warn you: you can't behave like this! There are no children here underage in this House. Of course we can't. And I warn you for the last time: do not use words, heavy words for men! This is the first reading. Please state your views, you don't have to agree to something but don't give the grades you're making.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16240	Dear Ambassador Prodanović: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16241	Mr. Chairman, there are really comical things in our Parliament in BiH. We have an unprecedented situation that the political party, which by nature things should be the bearer of the European commitment, has a completely wrong approach. Instead of congratulating the Council of Ministers for implementing the Mostar Declaration, in accordance with the Agreement and the Action Plan, now that the opposition is fully anti-European, completely anti-European, views on things that absolutely for one state should not be questioned whether the opposition or position. So, in this story now, let's say that, by any chance, the SDP is in power -- it would certainly be a pro-European-oriented political party. Now the full story of two laws is very important. This wasn't easy to get to this story. It's part of a compromise. It's not impossible. There are things that are impossible. What Mr. Lagumdžija is saying, I must say, it's impossible. Only political ones can profit from that. BiH citizens won't get anything. It will await the final phase of signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement as a basic, domestic task, which BiH authorities will have to fulfil to become EU members. And it's not legal. And then it states the principle, it needs to end this, it needs to, absolutely ignoring any constitutional structure in this country. On the other hand, we're full of media stories: we can't admit this situation, we can't admit this situation, and constantly in some retrograde past going away, we're fooling citizens, and here we get the Police Force Coordination direkcija, we get the Forensics Agency, for the first time, we get the Education Agency, we get absolute control of the security structures in BiH, and we also get independent supervision for the bodies of the police structure. Whether there will be some changes to this law in the form of amendments, to make them better, but to be what we promised: on February 15th, we will come out with the bill, we will adopt them quickly, we will get laws at BiH level, we will get institutions, we will fix the situation and what we would like and what would be part of the road. That's why I'm also surprised and surprised by the international relationship, you know when you're talking, I understand you, you're talking about what you were given for homework. And the international community's homework was part of a political lobby story in BiH. But, look, we've wasted a terrible time on that. Now it's a reality to be... 82
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16242	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16243	I'm sorry. Now it's time for us to agree for the first time and, instead of doing it now, we'd like to take it down again and not be.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16244	Time, I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16245	So my opinion is that with a story like this, we don't send any messages. I am surprised by the international community, which is why it does not play an active role for the opposition to take part in essential issues, when it comes to European integration, the Euro-Atlantic integration of BiH, to take part in its responsibility. Not a demagogue in Parliament to talk, but in the towers that we speak, so we would very easily accept it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16246	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16247	And then that census or more increases appetites, otherwise we lead to complete political disintegration in BiH, a divided society for which every man must be surprised. Let's talk about what our goal is for the state, and then we'll fight for the citizens. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16248	I'm afraid we'll have to conduct this as a discussion. You're out of time. Dear Ambassador Kadrić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16249	I thank you, Chairman. Just one brief replica of Mr Lagumdžija's presentation, and before I say that in this opinion, I have read one sentence which reads: After that statement, it is said whether or not a session should be held, members of the Joint Commission of the SDA and SDP have left the session. I really didn't believe that these members of the Commission had left the session, and that they hadn't stayed to vote in principle on some things and, after Mr Lagumdžija's presentation, now it's a little bit clearer to me as to who ordered him to leave the session. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16250	I've got the following reports. Please let me read it in order to let them know you're getting ready. Dear MP Križanović, pa Ahmetović, Novaković, Ajanović, Bećirović, Bahtić, Huskić, Dolić. Dear Ambassador Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to say first of all and join my colleagues who, I won't be able to... Do you understand anything? He doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16252	Dear Ambassador Ahmetović, did you, did you want to or? Dear Ambassador Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16253	Dear Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, I am here because I have long been involved in these problems of police reform in BiH since I acted as MPs in the National Assembly of the RS, so there could be a lot of talk about police reform and some have written books about it. Between them and Mr. Martens. Unfortunately, so I tried here today in Parliament and in the Council of Ministers to get to that book and I couldn't find it. The reform of police structures in BiH was a condition in BiH's EU integration process. Today we have a completely different approach to this very important issue in BiH. I ask lawmakers and those who will support this quasireform police reform: has BiH given up on police structures reform? Because these laws today have an entirely opposite content that is seen in the very titles of these laws that are before us today? The first law is the proposal for a law on independent and supervisory bodies at BiH level. If I am not mistaken, such bodies at BiH level today exist for SIPA and DGS and we could only make changes and additions to these laws. The second law is the draft law on the Police Body Coordination Directorate. And, unfortunately, I couldn't see in these laws that these police bodies co-ordinate other police bodies to the level of local police areas in BiH and see that there is a huge lack of this law. So this isn't police reform. That's what you see in the title itself, and the essence is that we don't talk. Today, therefore, I cannot possibly get an answer to the question from EU representatives, and I don't know why they gave up their principles that they imposed themselves as EU principles for police reform. Why and who they were from... I don't know, but I have to realize that I am permanently committed to police reform in BiH, in accordance with the three principles previously declared. I hope today from someone here in this room, from the College, from the legislators of these laws, that 84 tells me who gave up and why, and whether this is in line with the existing procedure and laws, from a document adopted at the 68th and 69th sessions of this House and the Council of Ministers' Decision on the adoption of an Agreement on the Reconstruction of Police Structures in BiH. Today we have a paradoxical situation that this home has given up the document it adopted itself. I wonder if we needed a Mostar Declaration when we had this agreement adopted in this house and both therefore entity parliaments. All the political parties that make up the majority here today voted for the agreement. The 2005 agreement, which was the obligation of BiH to start Stabilisation and Association negotiations, is a good basis for quality police reform and I wonder if, when we sign the agreement, the criteria will be even closer, given that they are so much lower than time and conditions for starting time and conditions to start negotiations today. So I need to remind you of these earlier principles, first the EU. So principle one. 1. All competences for the laws and matters of the Budget concerning the police must be established at national level. 2. There's no political interference in the operational work of the police. 3. Functional local police areas must be established on the basis of technical criteria relevant for police work, where the operational command would remain at local level. I've got some small copies here from Oli Ren's letter. Citing therefore a letter from 21 February 2005, European Commission member Oli Ren, who stressed that in order for BiH to meet all requirements of the Performance Study on structural police reform, all legislative and budgetary powers over police matters must be at the state level and applied in functional areas, in order to obtain technically efficient police, and there should be no political interference in police operational work. In view of the communicators of the Peace Implementation Council's Steering Board of 7 April 2005, in which the Management Board reiterated that three principles defined by Commissioner Ren in a letter of 21 February must be respected, so that police reform is successful, and that BiH would receive an effective, uniform police structure, in line with best European practice and urged all sides in BiH to reach political agreement on the future structure of police, in line with the principles mentioned. The only principle, unfortunately, which is now respected during all these negotiations on police reform, is the principle declared by the SNSD and for which it also rejected the Martiens' plan and the Police Reform and Vlasic Agreement Report, etc. So, the principle of the rest of the RS police. So, meanwhile, the International Court of Justice verdict in which RS police have been characterised as the police responsible for the genocide crime in Srebrenica. The police, therefore, who today insists, have not suspended any of their officers or anyone else because of this, have not prosecuted, in no way escaped from the institutions and police forces in RS. I only have one document, and such documents are many that testify to the participation of RS police in the Srebrenica genocide, which dates back to 13.7.95. A year. So, it's a dump in 85, which, among other things, says the Center for the Security of Zvornik in whose area the genocide occurred, at point 8, says the liquidation of about 8,000 Muslim soldiers we blocked in the woods around Konjicevic's fields. The fight is being fought, this job is only done by the M.O.P. units. If this is a reform that won't have all this in mind what I said, I think everything and moral standards in BiH have fallen. Thank you very much. /Shortly severed connection/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16254	Dear Deputy, well, I have repeatedly called on this House to respect the Constitution as it is. Today I heard from various points of the agenda, and I didn't want to report for replicas earlier. We call... the public in BiH. We have to respect each other and be honest with each other first. What public of BiH? What is normal for the public of Sarajevo is not normal for the public of Banja Luka! What's normal for the public of the Great Brieg, it's not normal for Bileću! Let's talk straight, let's talk straight. If first we were representatives of the people here, and you can honor me whether I am or not an MP of this country. I am, and I'm in favour of her progress, but I'm always saying that we need to achieve the art possible at this point, as possible. The public in the RS will not accept well what we have accepted because this is also against the constitution. What will we say about this public in RS about the Serbian people? Here's the open one. But this is what we went to compromise as far as possible. Remember, I'll remind you, I've been calling you, so people aren't some holy letter and the Kuran that we don't change it. Constitutional changes will follow. But what's possible in this moment, if you don't want this. What's possible? As my colleague Kalabić said, the status quo suits us. But here, let's not strain the position, let's do it, let's make some shifts. The EU, the international community, will we once really clear up with our delusions that there is no law and justice in the world, that this is general fiction. Justice and law only manifest themselves through power and power. Who at a given moment is in a better position and who is more powerful, will dictate justice and justice. And we don't have to make fun of whether we're right or wrong. Next, I've heard countless times here, right about police reform, the MUP. You know, Mr. Ahmetović, that cop is a member of the MUP, but he's not the MUP. He's a member of the MUP, but he's not the MUP. So when we had the law and the bill of law from a respected doctor, I said then, here's as a legalist and I accept a decision, or judgment of the international court of justice. So who here from the Srbin ever said and denied it wasn't, which you keep insisting on. But you can't tie the Srebrenica area to the MUP RS, because what's that New Town cop or Trebinj, who's never been in that area, is guilty. The MUP is an institution, Mr Ahmetović. The officer is a member of the M.O.P., the center, and so I'm not going, I don't want to go with you, because I highly respect you, so I'm not going into debate. But here, I'm calling you, is it, and I'm asking, is anything at this point possible more to be accepted than this? I'm telling you it's not on the Serbian side, it's too much. That we will suffer terrible problems both from our own people and opposition and political parties, and I don't know which leaders but, people, at this point, it's not possible anymore. It may be three months from now, I don't know, I'm not a prophet here, or half a year from now, but give me what's possible, so let's see what happens next. But you don't, you don't want this, and you expect it to be settled in 86 days. Well, it won't be settled. Everything's going gradually. Well, we didn't grow up right away either. We were kids first, so I don't know, guys, so here's the people. But the question is, what kind of people are we today? We're not being honest. We are not honest, I call you to honesty in this House and I end up with a sentence. We had the story of a multiethnic party, which I welcome, the SDP! A big story about how they're the only multiethnic party! I welcome that. And with the vote on the Serbian Orthodox Church Agreement, abstention! How will I explain to my people in the RS, in Serbian, that there are Srbin. So is the police reform. As friends, as colleagues, I invite you to accept this as soon as possible, and I'm telling you that this is not possible either. But at this point, we can't do any more than this, so if we all got planted on our heads. Are we going to stop at this entrance to Europe? And sign an agreement? I'm asking you not to do that. And that's my appeal, if we want to be honest with each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16255	Time, time, 15 seconds missed the time! The word has a respected representative, and Bahtić gave up, he gave up. No, no, later, later. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16256	Dear colleagues, first of all, I must say that the reasons why the SDA and the SDP are against these laws are the reasons for me to be in favour of these laws. So it's a motive for me to vote and it should be and it should be a motive for me to vote for these laws. I must say that now that Zlatko Lagumdžija has justified the SNSD, because he will vote, I should now justify the BiH Party for voting, and then settle that, and that everyone has their reasons and our support because they will vote. You see, before I say a few words about the laws themselves, I'm going to comment on a few views here, which I've heard from my colleagues. Namely, Mr. Honorable colleague Mr. Dokić said that the responsibility for these laws is borne by both the position and the opposition. I must say that the Serbian Democratic Party, and we MPs here, do not bear any responsibility for these laws. In fact, we have not participated in any negotiations by the will of the international community, and I assume the leaders of six of these parties. So we couldn't make our contribution, and we couldn't get a chance to be responsible. We didn't get such an opportunity in the RS in consultations between the parties, because nobody invited us there either, and I really don't see any serious reason why we would share responsibility for the fate of these laws. Of course we share the agreement for the fate of the process and it is not disputed at what level we are here and at what level we are asked here but only processes, not these laws. Here I heard one finding, I think that she, I don't believe that Mr. Prodanović thought as he said, that, in fact, he called SDP that this is the party that is the bearer of the European party, should, in its direction, be the bearer of the European path. I really don't think and I don't know on what principles it can be said that one party is more and the other less bearers of the European path. Each of these parties here, which is in this House, has made some kind of statement about this, and I think that we were also accepting the other day of an 87 resolution here, i.e. the declaration, in fact, giving a clear position when it comes to the European path, the EU, of course, thinking in different ways about it. And I'll say a few words about the laws themselves. I have said several times and warned of a practice by the Council of Ministers that for the constitutional basis for the laws, the parliamentary assembly's right to pass laws. I would like, in addition to this constitutional basis, the legislators of the law to find some constitutional basis, other than that right for us to pass laws. Unfortunately, I have not found here any other provision of the Constitution except in this and in one and the other law. I'm not going to discuss it, and I'm not going to talk about the text right now, because it seems to me that in many elements this text would not be controversial for me. I will Govorić about the way we received this law in Parliament, i.e. I consider the opposite of the Constitution, and that is where Mr Jovičić and I agree. However, we will not vote the same because he will vote no matter what is contrary to the Constitution, it means otherwise. So we had to, since there is and it is evident that there is a transfer of jurisdiction, we had to observe constitutional procedure and nothing else. If she was respected, I'd probably be discussing it quite differently today. Unfortunately, she's not respected. navešću will only point out an example to show how it is possible and how it is possible to interpret that there is a transfer of competence to, say, the Police Body Coordination Directorate, where e) says, the application of the best European and other international practices relating to police issues in BiH. Or standardisation of work on police issues in BiH. And I could give you some more details, and that's why I think it's unnecessary, now I'm talking about constitutional procedure, unnecessaryly this is going so fast, and I'm sure in this regular, normal constitutional procedure, it would get support and that today the SDS Club would probably vote differently. I wouldn't want you to understand from one part I was saying that we're sorry we weren't invited to these meetings or that, God Bog, we're offering to be invited another time. So, we're happy we're not invited, but, I repeat, you've given us the right to feel responsible, and that's what we're happy about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16257	I thank the honourable representative. The replicas were reported, if I am well, the distinguished representative Kalabić on this agenda point... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16258	Just a few sentences. I made it clear that it's about the discussion and I'm giving up the discussion, and I used it as a discussion, right away, and I'm taking good care of it. I think we've arranged our replicas well and I'm taking care of these replicas. And I'm sorry I'm gonna spend this one, too, second, and I don't even have a discussion anymore. I think we understand each other. And I won't, I won't be long. 88 I just want to say one fact that we tend to forget: the promoter of police reform in BiH was SDS. All talks began under the leadership of the SDS and its president and president of the Republic. And they were led to the moment until that shipwreck took place in the election. The SDS had the will and had certain decisions on police reform and had certain solutions voted which, according to the SNSD, were, let's say, in the interest of RS much worse than these today. We have the documents adopted and the SDS was a participant in both Vlasic and Konak and some other places where she adopted the documents and I can tell you that the table in these talks where I participated was much better than when these new ones were taken over afterwards. Much better. They had a feeling for a full menu. They were going to do with the police what they were going to do. The elections have decided this way, however, I mean, the SDS still has a place today and it has been invited to these talks and probably participates in some unpublic talks, as everyone plays their role there. But I want to say this. A colleague, Novaković, said about responsibility for the European pathway. We have said that here on many occasions: there must be this kind of shared responsibility. That is what the EU representatives and we have been saying together, when these issues were all agreed that we must reach that part of the consensus on European integration in this Parliament as well. We have even accepted this in conversation with all international relevant factors that we will work together on this road. I haven't heard from any political party that there will be opposition when it comes to these things concerning European integration. For me today, it is news that two opposition parties do not think of participating in anything that has to do with European integration. I respect their right, but if today is the fact that we can't reach consensus on that issue either, here and that's the fact.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16259	Let's recap. So next to the replica came the honourable MP Kadrić, so Izetbegović, and Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16260	So, what I meant to say as a replica to my honourable MP, Novaković, that the SDS has no responsibility, has never been invited to these talks, just to repeat what Drago Kalabić said. So the SDS took part in this whole thing. Dragan Čavić, as president of the SDS, was involved in these things and he wrote these European principles on the orders of the international community, he was most active when it comes to these things. So, SDS is, you can't get out of these things at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16261	Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16262	... Mr. Novaković said when he heard the SDA's arguments now, did he, that it convinced him to be in favour of reform? And our arguments were that three European 89 principles were not respected, among other things, that there was no political influence on the police and that the police should be established professionally. In addition, Mr Ahmetović, who lost his father, the Daija, who was wounded himself in Srebrenica, said the police had no power in the RS to remove any of these criminals from themselves. So she doesn't have the strength to clean herself up from a criminal. I know you, Mr. Novaković, I just can't understand that you've said it seriously. So, you support a police officer who doesn't have a corner to clean himself of a criminal, and the police who will continue to have political influence and who won't be in line with the professional compositions of the structure. Since the U.S.A. has stepped into that position, you're on the other side now. There's no Mr. Jovičić, is there? He once again said that the world operates on force and interest, not on truth and justice. Well, there's no hundred percent truth and justice, is there? But the desire to make it fairer, to be closer to truth and justice, is what holds the world together, otherwise everything would fall apart and sink. Therefore, we must strive to do better. We'll never make it perfect, but we'll try to make it better and more true, we should anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16263	Dear Ambassador Novaković: a response to the replicas is numerous. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16264	Look, I don't know what to tell them if they realize I'm helping them. I'm trying to help SNSD, and they get it wrong. But here, I've decided to spend this second replica on Mr. Kalabić, although I think it's wasted in vain. You see, gentlemen, I have completely said that we have and share responsibility for reforms, and not for these laws, and you have come along with Mr. Remzija Kadrić and Mr. Kalabić on reforms, and I have said about the law. We did participate, and we dragged the SNSD into that story so today you wouldn't be able to say what he's saying. And if they were smart and they'd drag us in if we couldn't say what we're saying today. Unfortunately, it's not like that. And I said I didn't regret not being so. I am what my friend Zorić would say, though, happy that it is not so. _________(?) This country has a chance. As for Mr. Izetbegović, the political influence on the police, I think we know best in the RS and we feel political influence on the police. And that is certainly why I would support any reform in which there is no political influence on the police. About that, some colleagues, I'm not going to name them here, they know how they did through the police political influence. It's not a reason, Mr. Izetbegović, and that's where we agree with you, but we don't agree with many other findings here. Now that I've spent this second replica, I'll keep my mouth shut. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16266	Thank you. My fellow Members and fellow Members, I will read the following which is on the agenda, or who has applied for the debate, but I think we should agree to finish this item of the agenda and continue the assembly tomorrow at 10.00. If you think we should keep working tonight, I don't mind, but I think it's a better option for us to finish this part of the agenda, and continue tomorrow at 10:00 with the session. Next for discussion: Ambassador Ajanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16267	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the biggest problem of this country is that people sign agreements, and then don't implement them, and that's a thousand examples that we can set, starting with the first of the agreements on the return of people to their homes, and then the return of people to their jobs, so here's to these agreements on police reform. Our people say, "It's never good to spit and lick." But here it seems that there's been some practice of doing so, that some people sign the agreements, and then they swear they never signed that agreement and the content that's written in the agreement. It's not just what's happening now, which Mr. Tihić claims, and the paper shows his signature and shows what he's looking for. That's what he did when there was a need for reform. For eight years, a representative of the RS presidency spoke that he had never signed... this protocol or the military reform law, so it turned out that... he signed it and that the reform had passed. But about that after. Many debaters today have said many things that I intended to say, so I will not repeat them, I would just remind myself that I absolutely agree in Mr Dokić's discussion, because he is the basic thing for these laws and said. This isn't police reform. This is the first step in police reform that the leaders signed in the Mostar Declaration and the Action Plan, and all six... party presidents who make up the majority, including Mr Tihić of the SDA, who now tells the big door that he did not sign it. Here, I have his signature and his declaration and the Action Plan. So, I'll be brief. These laws, in my court, are not police reform. And secondly, I believe that these laws do not combine the Mostar Declaration on the basis of which the laws were both made and made and the Action Plan is not combined. I think it can be done with the amendment, if it's a good will, to make it right. And I can personally say to myself, not to the party, because here I always feel like an MP and responsible to myself, to the people and to Bog, and I never feel right, to tell you, to either party, to the party leaders, but to work on my conscience, and in the party I represent my opinion and come to it and come to a party compromise that corresponds to my procedure. That's how I act. That's how I got into politics back in 1990. And that's why I'm only going to say my opinion. If this law is done and I think it can be done, I'll definitely support it. Since today is about principles, it means only principles, not the final law, I will vote for the principles of this law, giving myself the right to be there for this and for this after the 91st conclusion of the discussion on the amendment phase, and the final text of the law, to decide for myself, that I will be for this and for that. And those who ask questions about what is agreed and not, they should ask their leaders the same as I have to ask my leader in my party and everyone in my party: Why is he giving up or why is he giving up? Because all of this could have stopped before it started, but then we know what the conditions would be, just like we know now, or at least we should be so smart to know that we only have twice here. Give up the European path and stop swearing that we want to go into it or go on a European path in the way that it goes with compromises with everyone else. I also have to say one more word here, which is that if these two laws are not so high-quality that the EU accepts us with them, and in the end, we will not even be admitted to the EU: these laws mean virtually nothing anymore. It was a discussion I didn't want to replicate because it's... because it's going to turn the whole discussion into a replica, I don't think it makes sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16268	Dear Ambassador Izetbegović: replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16269	So, counterpart Beriz Belkić just said well. People who aren't present should not be called here. And in the Mostar Declaration, if you read it, Professor Ajanović, you could see that it insists that three European principles will be respected. And then, in Article 2, a single police structure will be created in BiH. No one here, I think, is seriously claiming that three European principles have been maintained and that a single police structure has been created. So you ask your leader why he gave it up. Ask him. That question should be addressed to him.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16270	Wait a minute. I do. Wait until, no, honourable Ambassador Dokić, and Todorović: replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16271	In the end, I want to use it to replicate it another time, even though I haven't used it right yet. Replica is a colleague of Izetbegović. I really have to remind myself that here in these papers that we need to adopt, today or tomorrow, it's not about local police structures, which he was talking about depoliticalizing those structures that he was talking about. The Mostar Declaration was operated on the Action Plan signed in Sarajevo a month later and in the Action Plan signed by the six-party leaders explicitly states that we will do what is on the agenda today, which is the establishment of state bodies for BiH level, not to mention, and under b) it says: the local part as part of BiH's single police structure will be following constitutional reforms. Isn't that quite explicit? And indeed, here is the question of the responsibility of those MPs, and of that leader who is behind it, who, after having responded very closely to all this, gave up what he was behind with his signature. Here is a very bad message for the citizens, and what 92 Mr. Ajanović said earlier, it is freely possible that if we do not go after ourselves to drag this Bosnian Germany grief to the end, the principles are satisfied and, if we look at principles, I can talk about constitutional things, what he was saying, but I will not now because of the five miles I said, which we will step towards the EU. But if we talk about these two documents from Mostar and Sarajevo, everything and one principle is satisfied. We can only talk about whether the text is like this or not. It would be a very bad message if we refused here today in the principles of this document. And the question arises: Will we and when will we believe the word, if we come into a situation that and what we have signed and have long advocated suddenly we withdraw? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16272	Dear Ambassador Todorović, and Nanić, and Ajanović, respectively, will be slowly.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16273	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we signed an agreement with the EU on 4 December 2007.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16274	Is that a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16275	Discussion, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16276	No, no, no, wait a minute. Dear Ambassador Nanić, then MP Hadžiahmetović, are replicas, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16277	I thank you, Chairman. With all the respect and years and parliamentary experience and everything else, what I really appreciate is that there should be value, is respect for what is said, and most of what we sign. And, Mr. Ajanović, what you mention as president of my party, unfortunately here are the people who are not here and I can't tell you directly, is the replacement of the whole thesis. Only very short in Article 1. Mostar Declarations: All budgetary competencies, for all police matters, must be at the state level. Who will determine the coefficient of police officers of the Konjic Police Administration, Bileca, etc.? Are these budgetary powers for all the police, for all the police? It doesn't say police, border police, coordination, the Supervisory Board, etc. This means sticking to what you signed. I think it's worth it. 93 Unfortunately, we have gone far in division, in the political opinions of some instructed, so we have come with a certain, most of us, the demands that we should set ourselves up. I think it's worth sticking to what you signed and this clearly says here. I think that whoever refused to sign it, who doesn't think it's good for BiH, and that it's not following those principles, and the SDA Club is clearly behind it, I think he respected and is behind his signature. And those who interpret differently, I think they should question themselves both as individuals and as the political party they represent.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16278	Wait a minute, honourable MP Ajanović on these replicas, and MP Hadžiahmetović on the line, whose?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16279	...I won't replicate at all because it's not worth his discussion of the replica. And what he's saying about three principles and this other thing, it's been a long time since I've known and asked a question before. What the boot war took, there you can set three principles, and where it didn't take, it can only be arranged. And you should know that. That's one thing. But I would tell Mr. Izetbegović, I called him to replicate. He reiterated what I said: that the Mostar Declaration, part or part of the agreement that was made in the Mostar Declaration, that the law as such could be brought into line and that it would receive a passing grade. And since this is about principles, I'm going to vote for law. So he's and I'm replicating him what I said, he's actually after me again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16280	Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16281	Thank you. Since we don't seem to be talking about agenda points here, we're talking more about each other, so here's the need for me to replicate the findings given to the BiH Party: that we should ask our president and if he, or why he changed his mind, etc., as if we don't know how to read. Here, I have a Mostar Declaration in front of me. Under Roman II. Article (2) stands: Structure. So it does not stand as it is said that a single police force will be accepted, but it stands as it says: The structure of BiH's single police force will correspond to the country's constitutional structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16282	Dear Ambassador Ahmetović: Replica. Did you want to? Here you go. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16283	My discussion therefore had no reason to hurt like a replica from the Party for BiH and I criticised it in my discussion, if I am not mistaken, or I called on us to return to the agreement adopted in this parliament. So there's no reason. I don't think it's a good idea to analyze the leader's moves right now. Then we would go so far and I believe that we would have a lot to say, so when it comes to the analysis of the moves of political leaders of these, those etc. I don't think we should go into that story, that it's not the subject of today's story here. But I want to say this about this, Mr. Ajanović, this as far as the boot came and this and that. So, I don't think it's a good message for those who are coming back, for Bošnjak and Hrvat, who are returning to RS or for Srbin who are returning to the Federation. And with such an approach, I think we will have one very, one different view of these people versus the overall integration processes in BiH. I remind Mr Dokić of this principle. So, I have a document here while Mr. Dokić was minister at the Council of Ministers where the Agreement was adopted... The BiH Council of Ministers at the 4th extraordinary session, held on 7.10.192005, discussed and adopted an agreement on the reconstruction of police structures and, as far as I can see, you not only gave up but also did not mention them at all. So much for your principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16284	Hold on, hold on, hold on. Dear Ambassador Bahtić wanted a replica. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16285	The replica on Nanic's.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16286	Here, I've got it right here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16287	Replica. A fellow MP, Nanić, said all budgets, means legislative competencies, and all police issues must be channeled at the state level and asked who will determine the coefficients for the salaries of police officers in RS. It says right here, so all the powers of the budget, this parliament will adopt the budget for everything. This is where we in Parliament will do everything. And then he, the administration of finance, will go to lower levels. And the Action Plan writes nicely when things are going to be solved. So everything has to come to Parliament, so even now it comes to Parliament, we adopt there, some people make systematicizations and coefficients right. We, the state, are going to have to adopt the budget. State. Parliament. That's what it says.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16288	Ajanović had another replica. Here you go. 95
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16289	It's a replica. I do this to mine, since some people in the SDA have either misunderstood my discussion or misread it on purpose, because of some political points, and what doesn't matter to me after all. Sir, my message is the biggest return message. If the principles had been respected that the police would be people according to the '91 census, no police would need political, police reform.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16290	Now we're going in line for the reported. Well, you do, but you've already had one discussion, two. No, no, wrong quote and replica goes under the same point of the Rules of Procedure. [[Common discussion]] Dear Ambassador Bešlagić: Business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16292	It's about two laws, so four replicas. Come on, please. Well, I had to comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16293	Nice try, but it won't work. Dear Ambassador Bećirović, please. You have a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16294	Thank you. I first want to say that this point of the agenda or these two points of the agenda are supposed to have a direct TV transmission today. People in this country deserve to see the attitudes of all political parties, and I don't think anyone should be ashamed of their attitudes before that. However, I also understand those who have disabled the transmission. What I can say at first is that I wish this reform had had more serious treatment today than it did. Before this session this morning, we are all informed in this House, so before the beginning of the session, that this item will be on the agenda today. I don't know why such an approach. Three years and maybe more are being discussed about police reform, and then a sudden inclusion in the agenda like that of the House of Representatives, which was also broken by spears for three months, and then within half a day, everything went by. I really don't know why the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Špirić, is not at least at this debate here at the session today. I think this is such an important and huge question that he should have followed this debate and participated in this debate. When it comes to the SDP MPs' Club, we have highlighted it several times so far and today. The signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is a priority and it has no alternative. 96 Police reform is one of the conditions and we are not against police reform, but we say police reform but the illusion and fog of police reform, we say no. Like all people in this country, we are concerned about the stalemate of reforms and the further harmonisation of the situation in this country, but we are also aware of how things work within the two-thirds majority. For us, it is unacceptable, and we say it openly, to change the content of the EU principles in which, for example, there is no political formulation that the existing political borders between entities, cantons in the Federation of BiH or the administrative region in RS will have no importance in forming local police powers. In what we have received today, it is obvious that, this morning, we received as a point of the agenda today, there is too much coordination, communication, too little co-ordination, so it is evident that they are not clearly and precisely defined by the contained and operational jurisdiction of the police. There are no clear procedures for the appointment of police officers, etc., neither are dynamics, holders of responsibilities and deadlines for the implementation of police reform. Whether two asymmetric political systems in the Federation of BiH and RS are docked through this reform, which would certainly ensure and facilitate the construction of a consistent, functional and rationally organised police system in BiH. Are we finally getting police in this country through these laws? Do we have one budget? Do we have one command line? Is it one of those big promises that we've been listening to in the past few years, is Srebrenica, say, a unique or one police area? What do we get by this law? Apparently new state-level police structures are being formed, and nothing is changing at lower levels. The result: an increase in the consumption of taxpayers, and in return, we do not have an effective police force. We also have an Action Plan to implement the Mostar Declaration and the Mostar Declaration itself. Just before my presentation, someone quoted this position (2), which says: We accept that the structure of BiH's single police forces will correspond to the constitutional structure of the country. What does that mean? So it means it's gonna stay the same as the entity police so far. It means 100% legalization of the existing state. This reform is necessary, but this is not what we've been offered for this country. I'm free to say this is an illusion of police reform and I'm free to call these laws Podkin's police laws. It is interesting that those who brought down the April package in 2006, and claimed that BiH does not need formal and false reforms, but that essential reforms are currently doing the opposite of what they said. I believe this is a difficult blow to BiH's integration and to BiH's European path. These are not solutions that fighters for a 100% BiH promised people in this country. However this ends, nothing will ever be the same after this. This isn't just a reform after all. Look at the law, IV. about whom also my colleague, Zlatko Lagumdžija, spoke. And if it wasn't for the Independent Committee, you'd think there was constitutional reform and it was some new reduced House of Peoples. And not to speak now is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. I must say, if I were to say three sentences to say what I think about this, firstly, I would say that that law is far below the level so far offered documents on police reform. Secondly, if BiH police really were to be structured under this law, it would certainly not be effective or functional. 97 And a third, possible adoption and implementation of this law would mean further BiH's resolution and further harmonisation of other recorded problems in BiH. Someone here was saying: the responsibility of the opposition, the responsibility of these and those. You need to tell the truth. Now, what's going to cause a replica of those who don't like it doesn't matter. But all reforms in this country, including this police reform, have actually stopped two political parties, not now, but when they made and offered citizens unrealistic political promises on the eve of the 2006 general elections.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16295	Back to the agenda, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16296	We're obviously hostages, when it comes to police reform, those facts. Of course, we haven't named which two, let them be identified. But I didn't know SDP was the ruling party, but it's obvious..
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16297	Please, just a minute, just a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16298	So, let me finish. But it is obvious when it comes to these two laws that anyone who votes for these two laws, in our opinion from the SDP, votes against the BiH state, and especially against the 100% BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16299	Now I've got replicas. So, Reverend Belkić, then Zorić, then Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16300	So, even though at one point I thought I was exaggerating when I replicated your party boss, claiming it was pathology, I'm really convinced right now. 90% of your discussion, Mr. Bećirović, was directed to the BiH Party. The agenda point,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16301	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16302	Mr. Lagumdžija, be polite. The agenda point is precisely formulated.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16303	No Mircophone 98 is enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16304	Correctly formulated, Mr. Bećirović. And really, give it more. If you can't do something else, stop dealing with the BiH Party.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16305	Wait a minute. Dear Ambassador Zorić. Here you go. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16306	counterpart Bećirović said at one point that those who have torn down constitutional reforms? Neither were constitutional reforms, nor was it good, nor were the promoters good. Proposers must ensure most, not those who have not proposed. They don't have to provide anything. His party was then a strong, strong advocate, not constitutional reforms but cementing the existing situation. Then those two nights did Sisif's job, they're working tonight. So it won't work. And it can't be someone's fault if the parliamentary majority voted on the Council of Ministers these two laws. It can't be someone's fault if this doesn't go away except for the parliamentary majority, or the Council of Ministers. Don't replace the thesis. And what I also want to tell you is that the right police reform should come after real reform of the Constitution, not those stories: there will be a second phase, it will be like this, it will be like this. There's nothing from that one. Whoever is ready to talk at a democratic and European constitution, join in. Who isn't, who wants some kind of... decorative change that doesn't mean anything, keep doing that job. Some still advocate to return the April package today. And one more thing. You are obviously not informed that all levels of government and what kind of government there are in BiH. You said the SDP wasn't in power. Unfortunately, it is in the presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16307	Thank you. Dear MP Bećirović had a counter-replication.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16308	If I'm sorry for anything right now, I'm sorry that my colleague Bahtić doesn't have a chance to replicate. We really like SDP when he has a chance to replicate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16309	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16310	Please return to your replica. 99
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16311	Let's get back to the replica, that's right. We can even take a break from 10 minutes, if you want a stenogram of exposure, so you'll see that I haven't mentioned any of the parties at all. The fact that, possibly in that story, someone recognized it wasn't my problem or the SDP club. And now we've just heard a story about constitutional reforms and a message like: it wasn't constitutional reforms, I guess, wanting to say that these are like serious police reforms. Well done. But I have to say, unlike what happened in that April package and this, the situation has changed pretty much. Against this, as you can see, it's not just the main opposition party. You have a much bigger problem now that your biggest positional party is against it. Apparently, there are a lot of people in this country who also feel that they can read certain documents. A story that was scattered a year and a half, two years and so on. some promises, etc. on the new constitution, on a 100% BiH, etc., we expected to see it on the ground, to make it a little more concrete. But apparently that story has nothing to do with it. These are the facts that
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16312	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16313	..if someone could rationally convince me that's not the case.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16314	I would ask the club presidents to come here to agree on a way, to continue this session. /Consultations/ Please, in consultation, please consult with the club presidents we agreed to continue this session the following way. Namely, everyone who's registered for the discussion will be, uh, we'll close the debate and finish the debate on this agenda point. The proposal is that the next item of the agenda is passed on to a session to be held on 5.3. and that after the debate on this agenda is over, we are voting on these agenda points that we have done. I hope you agree with what the presidents of the clubs have agreed. Next for the replica, dear Ambassador Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16316	Thank you very much. 100 This is my first replica. I will no longer replicate but really given the tenacity I respect with Mr Bećirović, and the energy he shows, and what he said and what it is BiH, who it is for BiH, who is against, who is against the 100%, who is for the true constitutional reform, I must say the following. I'm sorry he wasn't in Parliament then, I chaired that session, so he could see some of my experience and those who didn't sign that package. We didn't put any signature on that package. So we didn't have an obligation or could object to something signed not being realised later in the procedure, to see what kind of pressure they were exposed to because of legitimate attitudes toward those who chose us. And I would never wish him... to go through that phase and respect his opinion in this House and to bring him out correctly, to fight for him, that's nice. But what is this about, gentlemen? We are working here now, today: are we going to be European BiH or are we going to figure things out? Now, that's a key question, Mr Bećirović, and you won't be able to escape from it because BiH can't solve the Constitution or the police in one step, it's evident today, it's also seen by the EU, it's all seen by serious politicians and don't play here with people and views that someone who advocates these laws against BiH. You hang that story somewhere else and that methodology is gone and we know how it ended. This is where the attitudes are clear. We can talk about everything, we can fix these laws, but we want a European BiH. She's opening up here today. Should we or won't we, say it! The laws aren't ideal. They are the fruit of compromises as well as many other things but that is the essence of the story, not that someone wants to implement other solutions through this right now. No, these solutions will follow the signing of stabilisation and accession, after the country reaches air and sets off on a certain path. And on the contrary, it's no longer a status quo, it's hypertrophy. If anyone wants to, have them explain it to the public.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16317	Thank you. The following has been registered for discussion by the honourable representative Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16318	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16319	And I understood that you gave up. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, it's not a replica. It's a debate. He didn't have a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16321	Come on, enough of you both to Bog and to the people, so sick, you're not ashamed. 101
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16322	... Please respect the Rules of Procedure. [[no microphone turned on]] He's spoken three times, and he's got no right. Whether it was a replica or a discussion in those three times, get it together, but it's got no right under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16323	I ask you, when you call on the Rules of Procedure, that before you receive the word, do not rise up or speak, when you are already calling upon the Rules of Procedure. So, I've had a review of the discussions, so they've been reported for discussion, and I've had it here already, we've had it in front of us for an hour. On that list of people registered for the discussion, it is now Mr. Bahtić's turn, and I thought just before, because he showed me that he gave up something, that he gave up the debate, so I gave my word to the honourable representative Huskić. So, the man hasn't given up the debate and has the right to debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16324	Thank you. I only had one replica on this dot. So, I'm registered for discussion. There, again the committee wanted me not to talk. I'd be happy to bring out some things that don't suit them, unfortunately. Today, we're discussing principles. We know what it means to us. Here's my colleague Raguž, I absolutely support his discussion. Police reform is one of the conditions for signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and these laws are part of it. We all said that the European path has no alternative. We all agree that 70% of the BiH public want to join the EU, they want a European path. So who do you represent? You're on your own, I guess. We're here for the citizens. A colleague, Lazar Prodanović, said well. All these discussions, believe me, anti-European, I understand why. Europe has long cleared up with the ideology represented by our SDP. And that's why they want it there, they don't belong there. I understand them completely, I understand these discussions of theirs. When it comes to the proposed law, I'm talking about principles, gentlemen of the SDP, you've learned to have your own police, political... from that system.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16325	I ask you, just a little bit, I ask the honourable MPs not to earn from the bench while your colleague discusses, and I ask you to still discuss the points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16326	Last time we adopted a resolution of MEPs for the European road, 39 votes, and the position and opposition, we all voted. Now, these are your first steps, in the first session of immediate obstruction. Was it then, were those true... resolutions or were they just passwords as usual. And I can't agree with 102 that those who don't vote for this are for the state, and those who don't. For the state, it is those who support this European path and these laws. Everything else is politics and a desire to score small political points. Come de, buddy, learn a little parliamentary democracy. Come on, sick, what's wrong with you? In the remote, how dare you function remotely?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16327	I'm asking you not to throw it away. I mean, this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16328	The police reform is key and she above all else, I will uphold the principles. Yes, thank Bog, it is. [[Common discussion]] I understand. And the Mostar Declaration,...beautiful in it stands, signed by serious people. The European Commission thinks it has serious people to do business with, gave... a paraphrase of stabilisation and now all of a sudden so many obstructions. In my opinion, this is a political attempt to stop BiH on the European path, because there is no opposition, I mean, specifically, Zlatko Lagumdžija and his signature. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. I end up here and in the future chairing to introduce them, when they talk, I keep my mouth shut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16330	The word has a respected representative, Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16331	I really want to say that there was a fight here about whether or not we're going to sign it or not. Then this guy calls me if I was up for that declaration, now I'm against the European pathway, which means in other words that the EU said cut off your legs, we would now adopt it here and then we'd go out there and we'd love it. I don't want to discuss it the way Mr. Bahtić talks. My wish is for you to tell me one thing. Is it said: if we just adopt, we will sign the Association Agreement. If that's said, tell us publicly, put it to a vote and we'll know how to define ourselves. And then call us if we vote against, and it's over, we'll be guilty, but we'll sign the Stabilisation Agreement! And I don't need anything anymore. Is that a condition? And if police reform had experienced its degradation from what was the EU's political condition to this day, that's what we all see. So, please, can you – no replicas, you're done, you're all finished – therefore, just tell me is this a condition to sign the Association Agreement? If that's the condition, please put it to a vote and let it vote. I think you 103 have a majority, you can vote it, I don't mind. Then we will bear the burden that we have made at this moment the decision we have made. So, please, we're not running away from that responsibility, but we'll see if she sees us. If they don't see us, think twice about it. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16332	Wait a minute, please, next for the discussion, honourable Ambassador Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16333	Here, I'll try not to cause any replicas. I'm not calling anyone, but I'm going to remind all of us together that it's too much, I'd say, both energy and money and time spent in this story about police reform and that this is after four years of this long story, by Vlašić, Martens, this one, as far as I know, and I think I know well. The first piece of paper that came to our bench, about this police reform, and I think it was really more irresponsible right away in the first, which would say, in the first round to kick him, which my colleague Lagumdžija would say, to shoot him with his foot. I think we should allow him to enter the parliamentary procedure, talk about him, and that was one of the most important motives why I and I think and the Party for BiH, which is why we are on the commission and all of us who are going to vote here today are going to support these principles. We all know very well how, how he went to the Council of Ministers. And that he came with a certain Falinka, with some kind of questionnaire, etc. Because of, I would say, I think, because of the high degree of responsibility means towards the European path of BiH, we will support the principles. We have prepared an amendment for which, or amendments, several, which we consider to be of quality, will significantly address some of the shortcomings of this proposed text. I agree with all those who criticized him and agree that none of us sitting here are particularly happy and satisfied with what's written here. Everyone has some remarks. But that's what you could do at this point. So I say: we will try to fix it and... and I think I can say that depending on how Parliament refers to this effort to fix this text, and we will refer to this final law. But it's phase two and I don't want to talk about it. But I want to say that the Mostar Declaration has allowed us, regardless of all its shortcomings and advantages, to paralyze the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We also have indications that the adoption of these laws, which are like I said, will allow for signing. I put two options: one, that we have reforms like we think we should have and, secondly, to go into reforms, because what we have, this is not a reform, this is the beginning of a reform, but to allow us to sign, then I am really clean for practical reasons to accept this start of reform and to allow ourselves to find a way to sign the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. And I think if we don't, we're going to disappoint the citizens of BiH who, I think, in most cases, have no idea what we're talking about here. Thank you. 104
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16334	It's a replica, isn't it? Dear Ambassador Dolić, discussion, and then Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16335	Gentlemen, chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, given the time, I will be very brief. There are probably few issues in BiH that have been keeping more and longer the attention of BiH citizens, both domestic and foreign, such as police reform. I'm not an expert on police organisation and police work, but it seems to me that here as well as many of our questions can be applied to us by the people: it was shaking worse, and a mouse was born. The police reform is the fact that we've been expecting a lot, and judging by what we're offering, we've got nothing but one big nothing. On this point, I have no obligation to either position, or to the opposition, or to the international community, because I didn't go on trips or brainwashing, but if it's a big deal, the condition to take at least one European step, then I'm glad that the leaders of the majority within the parliamentary majority agreed on nothing. When a man examines what is offered in this proposal of these laws, then we cannot help but ask ourselves: Is this why we have lost so many steps on the European path, is this worth so many difficult words and so much fear in the citizens of BiH, did this take so many trips of leaders and public excitement? It is clear from the beginning that police reform has been determined by constitutional changes and constitutional solutions. Personally, in the solutions offered, I see no revolutionary steps forward in the reconstruction of the police structure in BiH, but I see nothing that would make the current structure worse. I repeat, for me, it is only positive in all of this if this is the European step in signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. And these laws, I'm exclusively looking at that light. In a practical sense, I would not be in the skin of anyone who would and who would be in charge of implementing these laws, because there is a lot of fog and fiction in them that opens up a space for the obstructions of each species. The real examples of fiction are deputy directors of the Directorate and agencies whose duties are defined in the law, such a fiction that the vacancy of the Deputy Director may be carried out by Grenland. I hope that at least part of the fog and fiction will be removed through the amendment action and that these laws will get a significantly different form. Finally, to say that those who are overly concerned, that these laws and proposed solutions to the harm of a nation, have no reason to worry. These laws and these solutions, which are offered, certainly, cannot harm anyone nor harm anyone. The profile of all this is therefore the European step they carry with them, and the real police reforms are obviously just ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16336	Honorable MP Todorović is for discussion. Then we took away his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16337	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 105 I fear that some of these discussions today will not bring us back in the recent time that we had here when both Parliament and the Council of Ministers came into a crisis. We initialled the agreement with the EU on 4 December 2007. This is the most important date for BiH since the conclusion of the Peace Agreement. This involves a new independent start for BiH towards a stable path towards EU membership, and is also the only way for stability and economic development to exist. For me, this European line represents the integration of certain values. However, following the work of this Parliament, and I am sure that I share the majority of those present here, that this is not how we will reach our desired goal. It's not about someone else on the outside, it's about us. We are facing the adoption of over a thousand and more laws and other positive acts, in a very short period. This obliges us to work more seriously and responsibly in this House. That's what we're bound to do by those who have delegated us here. I wish the unproductive discussions that today were a lot to reduce, so that they could be as rational as possible. Let's leave some of these divisions that we've already seen today a little bit, let's keep them far behind us. I am convinced that BiH can function and exist and develop economically only to some four confidence parameters. Obviously, he is not here, Mr. Džaferović, because I see that you are not following me, of common interest and of one full of democracy. Let's try some of the positive values. Let's not ask a pretty girl to make a lot of remarks that she's not pretty. As with this law, which is today, or the law, that we are not looking for their faults, but to try what Mr. Ajanović said: that this is practically today we are talking about one first step, and through amendments and all other possible options for change, to make adjustments to what is not good for us. I personally think that this is a way closer to the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16338	Dear Ambassador Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16339	Well, here, I'll be real quick. So, me and the HDZ Club understand these reforms, these laws as the beginning of the reform of police structures in BiH, and I think this is the first step and that the reforms, or the continuation of these reforms, will follow. The damage we would have had, if we hadn't adopted these laws today in our first reading, is very large. That's how I judge her. And the benefits of that, if we meet this important condition and adopt these laws, the benefits are great, at least promised. That is, this brings us not a small step towards signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU, which then opens up a new side of BiH's road to the EU. Of course, by the existence of these laws in the first reading and, hopefully, after that and the amendment phase in the second, that we will take the first step in police reform and that we will take the first step towards what we will achieve with this reform, which is that we really have, for some time, a professional, efficient police force, which will contribute to improving the overall security opportunities and creating better and favourable conditions for a safe life for investment and for general development in BiH. Most of these discussions today, at least that's how I experienced it, actually, it seems to me that she had the ambition to convince someone to change their mind about these two laws. Of course, that 106 no one has succeeded, at least I think so, and also many of my colleagues here have talked about their principle, in fact already in their discussions themselves told us here that they themselves are unprincipled, because their debate was in a significant part contradictory once in their part, i.e. others etc. I would really, bearing in mind the fact that tonight we are working late, working more than eight hours today, end up with my debate and say that the HDZ Club will support the first reading of these two laws and, of course, we expect to adopt these laws in the second reading for a while and that we have taken the first step in the transition process, i.e. the process of reforming the police structure in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16340	Thank you. Comrade Belkić, here you go. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16341	First, believe it or not, or I'm... I'm guessing, I got another one. I am saying this, Mr. Chairman, a replica, offered by a series of discussions of very serious people, which I highly appreciate and whose opinion I care about, but so that there is no misunderstanding here, some shadow of doubt remains, when it comes to it and stems from several discussions that come from parties that will obviously support this, that, who is, this is about the European path, and all of a bit, we who are, who are, who are, against, we are on the other side of the European path. We're either autists or we're aware of brakes or who knows what this is about. I want to say very clearly that any attempt by us who are against these two laws will not pass as opponents of the European path. That's because that's not true. Secondly, because we do not want to create an illusion that we have accelerated our European path and that we are speeding up this European path to concreteize certain things that, once we agree, we will enter with them as such into the European Union, and the European Union will agree to enter with some fellers, if that is the expression of our will. That's another thing. And thirdly, I don't think you can objectively achieve it anymore, precisely for those four reasons, because these basic principles are not satisfied. Here is the lack of trust that was destroyed in this same parliament a few years ago on a completely different occasion, when we lost the opportunity to have that year, before those elections, a Stabilisation and Association Agreement signed and to be close to Croatia today, and not close to anyone when it comes to the European path. So don't ask us to believe a lie that this has been achieved, we're in police reform. So I said, if you want, let's go, I'm fully convinced of it, and I'm fully and ready to support it, I guarantee we'll get a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and if we don't adopt this in a very long time and we're going to get it, not because we did it, but because Europe is saving its cheek, because it's putting down a ladder and they're looking for it, they're going to offer you any paper to sign, just to say that we've met. We didn't meet anything they gave 107 to us. They forced the leaders of this country into different times in the last three years of different people to accept some principles and, when they accepted, then the time came to, behold, today happy, happy, adopt something and say we're on the right track. You're not. We're not looking for an alibi, to be an alibi to the international community for its collapse in the last three years with police reform along with us. We don't want to be an alibi, because if Serbia can offer her candidate status by the end of the year, the candidate status, and she won't, then at some point she'll probably do it. And if Albania is with its police in front of us and has a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, then they'll give it to us, because they're the only ones who haven't given it to us. Don't be afraid, Kalabić, this land of destruction won't, don't worry, Kalabić, this country won't fail. No Niko will share it, so you don't worry much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16342	Dear colleague Belkić. A series of replicas. Dear Messenger Rajilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16343	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, today on the first day, I've been throwing Mr. Lagumdžija a little bit like this, trying to say that we others know what he's saying, but here, I haven't answered the line, because sometimes, we women say this is a matter of men's police and we don't react, but here's a very short one. Mr. Lagumdžija, if this isn't the European way, what is it? Which you have a responsibility as a SDP in that fact that you say over time to some we will still go to the European Union. You claim that in half a year, we will enter the European Union in a year, and what is your responsibility if that doesn't happen? What do you suggest we do, so it'll be a European trip? Are you the international community, the SDP here in BiH, or are they people who make up the international community and who say that European principles are respected? So we're talking about that three-centimeter scale, you SDP guys aren't ready to cross that three-inch scale either, you can't. And do you know why? Because you weren't prepared to support an agreement to ratify the Agreement with the Serbian Orthodox Church, that's your European path, and that's the SDP.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16344	He's a colleague of Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16345	Here, I will do my best to make sure that after a very difficult discussion, it certainly is for all of us, we have all experienced this as one great responsibility, and I will make an effort in one rational way to state the position of the Party for BiH and to list a few arguments that have defined us, I stress, that we do not eliminate from the procedure in the beginning of these two laws, that we do not eliminate them at the beginning of these two laws. The reasons why we did this are not just in the quality of these laws. The quality of the law, we can discuss, of course. The first and basic reason is this often mentioned and this European path, of course not only the European path, but the overall state in the country, because we need to understand at what point in the country we live in, that it is very important to send 108 messages from this Parliament in a way, such as the budget, such as confirmation of the government, and also the first reading of the law, which means the first step in opening the process of police reform, so point 1. Action plan. One of the reasons is, too, we have all often said that it is not right that these processes of reform and other waters are non-institutional, that we are kind of bypassed etc. Here's a chance for us to be part of it. I'm very sorry, really, I'm including myself, that we've lost a significant part of the time in some replicas that haven't exactly gone in the direction of the exchange of arguments, which defines us for or against the law in the first reading. So we appreciate that this is about first reading, followed by the amendment phase. It's about starting a reform, point 1. Action plan, which says structures are being established at state level. We think at a further stage, therefore, in the second stage that amendments can provide for the application of principles, of which, in particular, in principle 1, all legislative activities, budgetary activities at the level of the state. As for the principle, we think that the international community has not given up on them, for the simple reason that we initialled the agreement, not just on the basis of these two papers, etc. but on a firm belief that we will implement those three principles. If you carefully read the Declaration and the Action Plan, you will see that the signatories of these two documents have committed to implement three principles, which Europe says are European. Here, these are the basic reasons why we think we should keep these laws in the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16346	Thank you. Since there are no more reports, I'm closing the debate. I apologize, Reverend Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16347	I checked in earlier, really. Well, given all of this, I'm really going to be very fragile. I would like to say, in my opinion, that these two draft laws, the Law on the Independent Supervisory Authorities of the BiH Police Structure and the Law on the Directorate for the Coordination of Police Authorities and the Agency for Supporting the Police Structure in BiH, therefore these two laws do not speak of the legalisation of the entity police, it is not about the legalisation of the RS police and, therefore, I do not think it is a good thing to tie this thing up and speak, offered by the discussion of a respected colleague and friend Ahmetović, when it comes to the International Court of Justice in The Hague and genocide that was done in Srebrenica. Therefore, these laws do not deal with the legalisation of entity police. The key law to deal with these matters is the law ahead, which is the Law on Police Service of BiH and the Law on Police Officers in BiH. I mean, there would be no confusion, although the truth of the will, if we were to speak openly, there were some proposals in the working group that came from a member of the SDA task force, which some of its amendments tried to, as we could read from these amendments, that he kept police structures, entity police structures and RS police, but in order not to confuse these 109 things, I don't think it's correct to talk about these things, so these laws don't talk about us legalizing RS police and Federation police.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16348	Dear Ambassador Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16349	Unfortunately, very briefly, since we are also at the end of the debate, a replica to the last speaker, a colleague of Remzija Kadrić. What doesn't say doesn't mean that it doesn't, and with these two laws, it's as clear as the day that these entity police are being legalized and there's no need, indeed, to convince us now that not only an MP, but an average citizen with less knowledge than MPs can conclude the lethic view of these laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16350	Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16351	I'll be very brief. We either don't listen here or when someone's talking, we don't pay any attention. I asked you today, "What else is possible?" Gentlemen of the SDP, if you think it should be written here today on February 20th, you will never succeed. It's not possible today, it might be possible in a year, two, ten, five, which, I don't know, but these laws treat differently. I ask you, if we don't adopt this, what's the alternative on that road? No one's offering today what's gonna happen if we don't accept this. If we're gonna tap into a place, I'm asking you that and I repeat it all the time, really. Can we do a constitutional pre-composition in one day and pass laws and, if you're looking for, I'll take it all, wait patiently, but you have to be patient too, I'll keep telling you again and again. No law, neither one nor the other, is a holy letter or a Kuran, or you do not obey me, or you will not. I'm not asking you to respect me, I never ask for it, I'm not saying you respect what I'm saying, be against me, but please, what else is possible but today!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16352	If there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. I have a request from the SNSD club to take a break for 10 minutes. Break 10 minutes before the vote. [[PAUZA]] Please bring the end of today. The SNSD club asked for a break. Do you need to explain the reasons for the break? Here you go. 110
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16354	Thank you. I believe that before the vote, the time before the vote should be and should be common and that, in the future, in some quieter times, it will be so, because everyone has a need before voting on such important issues to carry out certain final consultations. Very short. The SNSD Club proposes, or asks MPs to pay attention to the fact that, in accordance with the order in which these amendments are proposed, we expect them to be rejected, and that, accordingly, we will come to a positive outcome of the budget vote, and given the order, we will act accordingly, so as to warn that there should be no complications.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16355	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please, let's take the order I read when we opened this item of the agenda according to the amendments. If someone thinks they should give up their amendments, when we get to his turn, it's enough just to say they're giving up a certain amendment. Please prepare to vote. We are voting on the amendments of Honorable Member Momčilo Novaković on amandman I.. moliti put these amendments ahead of you, so that I do not have to read them one by one. We're voting on the Momčilo Novaković amendments. Amendment and please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" five, "against" 28, "restricted" three. The amendment didn't go through. We vote on amandman ii of Mr. Novaković prepare for the vote. Vote now! "For" five, "against" 30, "abstained" five. This amendment was not supported either. We vote for Amendment III. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" six, "against" 27, "abstained" six. _________(?) 111 [[no microphone turned on]] Is it necessary – a lot of "against" – the SDP Club's demand to repeat the vote. Please prepare for the re-election on amandman III to prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 11, "against" 26, "restricted" two. This amendment has not passed. Amendment IV to Mr. Novaković prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" five, "against" 28, "abstained" seven. Amendment V Please prepare for the vote. I have here on this part of Amendment V, says, in Article 3. ... The Department of Civil Affairs, okay. We're moving on to the amendments of the honourable MP Zlatko Lagumdžija. We vote for the amendment and please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" eight, "against" 29, "restricted" three. This amendment didn't get most of it. Amendment II Please prepare for the vote You can vote now! "For" eight, "against" 29, "restricted" three. This amendment has not been supported. We are going to vote on Amendment III. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" eight, "against" 29, "restricted" three. The amendment didn't receive support. 112 Amendment IV Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 13, "against" 27, there was no "abstained". Moving to the vote on Amendment V
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16357	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16359	... voted the final number, and since these were cost cuts, there's no place to settle this, so I think there's no reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16360	Thank you. It simplifies our work. We are moving to vote on amendments to the honourable MP Bećirović. Please prepare to vote. We're voting on the amandman and you can vote now! "For" eight, "against" 29, "restricted" three. This amendment has not been supported. Amendment II, please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" nine, "against" 27, "abstained" three. This amendment has not been supported. We are voting on Amendment III. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" nine, "against" 28, "restricted" three. amandman III did not receive support. 113 Amendment IV Please prepare. You can vote now! “For” eight, “against” 28, “abstained” two. This amendment has not been supported. We are voting on Amendment V. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" nine, "against" 28, "restricted" three. This amendment has not been supported. We are voting on Amendment VI. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" eight, "against" 30, "restricted" two. With this, we have exhausted the vote on all amendments. We move to a vote on amendments to SNSD's Club of Representatives. _________(?) We're withdrawing the amendments. Thank you. We vote only after that on the amendment of the honourable MP, Niko Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16362	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16363	Thank you. And in the end, we have this amendment from Mr. Drago Kalabić. Last amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16364	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-02-20-0.u16365	Thank you. 114 With this we have exhausted the vote on all amendments and now we are voting on the Budget of BiH institutions, together with these adopted amendments and the Report of our Commission, making these amendments in the Commission report an integral part of the law. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 29, "against" eight, "abstained", three, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have adopted. It remains: The conclusion of the honourable Messenger Nanić Husein, who reads. The BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with carrying out an activity plan programme to resolve the accommodation of BiH institutions in order to reduce the cost of renting these institutions. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 35, "against" was not, "abstained" four. I realize we've adopted this conclusion. We move to a vote on the third item of the agenda: the proposal for a law on the independent and supervisory bodies of the BiH police structure. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 22, "against" 16, "abstained" two, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we adopted this law in the first reading. We move to a vote on the fourth item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on the Police Authority Coordination Directorate and agencies to support the police structure in BiH. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 22, "against" 17, "abstained" one, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we also adopted this law in the first reading. The rest of the agenda will be for the next session, most likely 5.3. I thank you. The session is closed at 1.55 p.m.
