ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-0.u20817	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I welcome you once again, honored guests, and we extend you to the 35th session. I remind you that we have completed the debate on the agenda points of the 35th session and that today we have a decision on all the working points of the agenda. I hope you're all prepared and that we can move to a statement on item 1 of the agenda. Here, you see already on display, so we have a quorum, we have 32 present, so we can work and decide fully. Prepare, vote, means the adoption of the 34th session of the House of Representatives. Vote now. With 32 votes "yes", without votes "against" and "abstained", I find that the House of Representatives adopted the minutes of the 34th session of the House of Representatives. We move to a statement on the 3rd point of the agenda: The request of the Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Members of National Minorities under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. We're voting on a request for an emergency procedure. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. With 30 votes "yes", with no votes "against" and two "abstained" votes, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that the House of Representatives has decided to accept the procedure under Article 127. We immediately approach the plea on the bill. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 30 votes "yes", without "against" and one "abstained" vote, I find that the Parliamentary House of BiH has adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Members of National Minorities by a hasty procedure. 2 We move to a statement on the 4th point of the agenda: The request of the Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics to consider the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision establishing the Council of National Minorities of BiH following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. And this time, first of all, we're pleading for an emergency procedure. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 31 votes "yes", without "against", two "abstained", with a sufficient entity majority, I find the request for an emergency procedure accepted. We're moving on to a statement on the motion for a decision. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 31 votes "yes", without the vote "against", two "abstained" votes, a sufficient entity majority – I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has adopted a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision establishing the BiH Council of National Minorities following a hasty procedure. We move to a statement on item 5 of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Witness Protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! 24 votes "yes", seven "against", two "abstained", an insufficient entity majority from the RS. There's no consent. We're voting in the second round on the same law. All vote, votes "against" count. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 23 votes "yes", eight "against", two "abstained" and insufficient votes "against", I find that the proposal for a law on witness protection programme in BiH was adopted in the first reading. We move to point 6: Proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 23 votes "yes", six "against", four "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. There's no consent. We're moving on to a statement in the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 3 With 22 votes "yes", seven "against", four "abstained", not enough votes "against", I find that the proposal for a bill on genetics of modified organisms was adopted in the first reading. In a debate on the proposal for this law, distinguished MP Martin Raguž suggested that "before declaring the principles of the bill, public debate be held, with the involvement of relevant experts so that they can reasonably decide on these essential aspects." He suggested before the principles were obvious but, so you stay – the proposal for a public debate, means. I am making a statement on the proposal for this conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 32 votes "yes", with no votes "against" and no "abstained" votes, I find that the proposal for a conclusion on the maintenance of a public debate on the bill has been adopted. And that, according to the Honorable President of the Constitutional Commission, will be carried out by the Constitutional Legal Commission as a competent commission. We move to a statement on item 7 of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Development of the Information Society of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! 26 votes "yes", six "against", two "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. There's no consent. We're moving on to a statement in the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 25 votes "yes", six "against", three "abstained", with insufficient votes "against" from the entity, I find that the proposal for a law on the Agency for the Development of the Information Society of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the first reading. We move on to the 8th-point statement: Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the settlement of liabilities based on the account of the old foreign exchange savings – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). In the debate, SDA Club and Branko Dokić proposed. The conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the SDA reads: 'A statement on the bill is being postponed'. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) 4 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-0.u20820	... I don't know what this is about. [[no microphone turned on]] Is this about taking those from foreign exchange savings, because here you're talking about as help... So if it's help, then it's something else.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-0.u20821	I'm begging you, I just looked at you and I didn't give you my word. So we're in the process of pleading. The conclusion is as clear as it is clear and as unclear as it is unclear, as good or as bad, and each of us will define himself according to how he thinks about it in the decision-making phase. So, so yesterday we discussed it, today we're just pleading. I respect that you have the right to ask, but still to respect the procedure. We approach a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Vote now! 5 Seven votes "for", 15 "against", 12 "abstained" - I find that the proposal for a conclusion is not accepted. I'll remind you that we delayed the debate on the 9th point, so we'll put it on the agenda for the next session. We move to a statement on the 10th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Constitutional Commission (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 31 votes "yes", without votes "against", two "abstained", I find the proposal for a law amending the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the first reading. We move to the 11th point: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission – Proposer: Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović (first reading). We are voting on the opinion of the Constitutional Commission. If Opinion is adopted, the law is not adopted; if Opinion is rejected, we return the law to the competent commission. Please prepare to make a statement on the opinion of the Constitutional Commission. Vote now! 27 votes "yes", two "against", three "abstained", a sufficient entity majority – I find that the opinion of the Constitutional Commission has been adopted and the bill itself has not been adopted. We move to a statement on the 12th point: A report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, police and state officials of Bosnia and Herzegovina in peace support operations for the period from 1.9.7 to 29.2.2008. We're voting on the report, with the opinion of the committee responsible. I remind you, in the opening remarks... Committees in relation to the Report and the conclusions contained in the Opinion. So we vote on the report in the form proposed by the Committee. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 30 votes "yes", without the vote "against", four "abstained", a sufficient entity majority. I agree that the report, with the opinion of the committee responsible, has been accepted. Declaration on the 13th Point: Annual Progress Report (monitoring the implementation of Action Plan 1 of the Public Administration Reform Strategy in BiH – Council of Ministers material). 6 Since we have asked the Council of Ministers for information, and they have addressed this as the Annual Report, I propose that we take this report to the knowledge and adopt the Opinion of the Committee, with the conclusions set out in the Opinion. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 28 votes "yes", without votes "against", six "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I agree that we have received the Annual Progress Report, with the opinion of the competent commission and the conclusions set out in the Opinion. We move to a statement on the 14th point: The proposal for a conclusion from the 10th plenary session of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, held in 30.7.2008, in connection with meeting the obligations of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 29 votes "yes", two "against", three "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I conclude that the proposal for a conclusion of the 10th plenary session of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes was adopted in 30.7.2008, in connection with meeting the obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. As part of this point, we also have the conclusion of the distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković, who you also received in writing, and this is about calling on the House of Peoples to form a committee to prepare the amendments and supplement their rules of procedure in order to comply with the provisions that must be identical in both homes. We are voting on the proposal for this conclusion now. With 31 votes "yes", two "against", without "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I agree that the proposal for a conclusion of the esteemed representative Momčilo Novaković was accepted. We move to 15th point: Considering the possibility of continuing the procedure for the appointment of the Ombudsman for human rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the deputy general auditor from the Bosniak people. In order to resolve the issues referred to in this point, the Honorable Representative Halid Genjac proposed the conclusions – to act in accordance with Article 165. Rules of Procedure. So, to conclude, to implement the agreement on decisions taken in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples on the appointment of the Ombudsman from the Bosniak and Croatian people, as well as the deputy chief auditor from the Bosniak people. These conclusions, following Mr Živković's proposal, were revised and you received them in writing, the revised conclusions. We're voting on revised conclusions. _________(?) 7 [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
