ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17324	Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats so that we can proceed with the session. Before we move to the 13th point of the agenda, Mr. Genjac, it's not that urgent. If it is, then we'll wait and take a break. In order for it not to be unclear, please, before we move to the 13th item of the agenda, regarding the 12th point of the agenda, Mr. Lijanović, Mr. Bećirović, Mr. Okolić and all those who discussed it yesterday, I would ask Mr. Okolić to withdraw this conclusion that I saw on the table, because, first of all, it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure cannot be changed. Secondly, I propose that we take advantage of the business opportunity and widely interpret that these are new aspects in which... MPs will be allowed to submit new amendments to the Codes from today until Thursday to next week, and we will be in charge of our commission to hold a session by Thursday and to consider these new amendments, which does not mean that they will be adopted, and that after that, we will declare ourselves on these amendments. Here you are, dear Ambassador Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17325	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, dear guests, since your proposal goes in the same direction, and if it's easier to do it technically, I agree. I'm giving up the proposal because the goal is the same. Thank you. I'm giving up my proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17326	Thank you. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of BiH - members of the Ad hoc Group are: Milorad Živković, Niko Lozančić and Šefik Džaferović (first reading) I would like to remind you that the Amendments and Supplements Bill was prepared in the Interresor Group, after which we took over the role of the promoter and delivered it to parliamentary procedure on 14 March. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on constitutional basis and principles on 28 March 2008. You have received both the Initiatives and the Interresor Working Group Report 2 that were delivered to homes for adoption so that, when we declare this law, we will also declare ourselves about the Initiatives and the Report. And please read everything you got from the Interresor Working Group. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Do any of you have any suggestions? Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17328	koleginica Members and colleagues, the issue of conflict of interest in the institutions of government or preventing conflicts of interest in BiH institutions is one broad and complex issue and, if I want to say briefly, to define an existing position, this law is only one step forward or perhaps a few steps forward towards a final final solution that needs to be adopted in BiH because, in addition to the Law on Conflict of Interest, this matter is treated by Election Law, the Law on Government and Ministerial Names, laws concerning justice and other laws, e.g. the laws relating to the state service. You read our initiatives carefully, and you will see from them what needs to be done in the next period. This law represents several steps that represent improvement in relation to the existing situation. It excludes some ridiculous situations that we used to have in practice. It helps to simplify the work of the Central Election Commission, and I suggest that we support the law in first reading today, while paying attention to the letter of the Election Commission which received members of the College, which concerns the competence of the Central Election Commission and the application of this law to lower levels of government. If there is a need to talk about it later, after discussing my colleagues, I will get involved and tell you what I think and suggest appropriate solutions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17329	Thank you. I don't see anymore. Dear Ambassador Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17330	Dear President, colleagues, fellow representatives, distinguished guests, I will look only a few words at the past point regarding the code, since it is well related to this law, to ask all MPs not to extend the restrictions that are regulated by law through the code. And that everything that's not regulated by law, we don't have to do through the code or, if we want to do it, then we do it again through the law, not through the code. And as for the amendment to the Law of Conflict of Interest, I think it's a very good thing it started. We're just going to have to bring a lot more worry here so we don't deny human rights through this law. Only one part of this law that speaks of first-line relatives, relatives on the sidelines to the third-degree line, relatives on the scale to the second-degree level, I'll tell you a familiar example. When two friends spoke, and one of them complained about his wife's family as bad, how was it all a disaster, and a friend asked him, "Why did you get married from that family when it was so bad?" Well, he says: I protected my future children so that no more of them 3 could marry from that family, and I had to sacrifice myself. Now, if someone wants to do harm like that, then this law allows them to do it very easily. Then, we support young MPs, we talk about young people who should sit in Parliament, and I already have examples where these people complain and say: We will have problems to start marriage because, when we take the Law on conflict of interest, we dear people don't want to go with us because if we get married, a lot of rights will be lost, which they now have if they don't. This is just one example, so that through bans, we're basically depriving other people's rights. I will act through amendments to this law and I think that our goal should be to make public work, that everything we do publicly publish and that the public appreciates this work and therefore chooses us or does not choose us in this Parliament, rather than using bans and then, in essence, those prohibitions, we deny human rights in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17331	Thank you. The working group was open and we called on all MPs to make certain cuts before the adoption of this law in the procedure can indicate if they are not fine, but we did not get much, frankly, of such provisions, so that we offered the text of what we could at that point agree on. Of course, there was a chance for all MPs to give amendments. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. A reply to a replica or an incorrect quote?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17332	It's not that. It's not a replica. I'm using right now as an MP, let me say. So I said one dimension of the project assignment we had. The second dimension is what counterpart Ivanković was talking about. He and I very often about these conflicts of interest, I don't know, it's getting symptomatic, we have opposing opinions, but let's appreciate it, is it? The aim of this law is as much as possible to close the door to corruption, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, do not harm human rights and freedoms. And the street between these two doors is actually a space to act for this law. So as much as possible to close the door to corruption in BiH and try not to harm human rights. And I think this law is better than the solutions we have, which were really rigorous in a certain one, I said earlier, even in certain things and funny. A man can't be a minister because his father-in-law is a member of a local utility board. It's a really funny situation. We have now narrowed down the circle of close relatives, when it comes to status bans, forced them on the children of the elected official, spouse and parents of the elected official. But when it comes to financial interest, then we have extended it to all relatives, and this is what Mr Ivanković is talking about, not only to relatives but also to interested persons, so when this law is carefully read, you will see, so that the Interresor Working Group has made one solution that is not perfect but is much better than the existing solution. And we, here come the members of the Central Election Commission at the session, the president and two members, in particular, so the question of the application of this law to entity levels. 4 The existing law is a law which obliges entities to pass their laws which must not be contrary to that law and the existing law applies until entities pass their laws. And we had such a practice in BiH until the Election Commission adopted, for its own reasons, a manual which, by way of a decision, put out of force, a manual based on which this law was applied and on entity levels. And I want to say to this occasion, that we are currently in such a legal situation, that since the Central Election Commission has made such a decision, there is no body that will apply the law that applies to the entity level as well. And in this direction it will be necessary in this House to make an amendment and this law, i.e. to authorise the Central Election Commission to apply the law to entities as well. I personally believe that the existing law gives such solutions and the case law of the Court of Justice of BiH has gone in this direction but, behold, the legal existing legal situation is such that it will be necessary to act by amendment. We've ruled out some situations here that might relate to conflict of interest, for example. These health institutions, educational institutions, etc. are concerned. something... with which the Central Election Commission has so far been heavily burdened with work, which was basically not some conflict of interest, or was not in some function of closing the door to corruption. We are now through the determination of a broad circle of faces, when it comes to financial interest, I think even more closed the door to corruption but we removed some human rights violations and they, I would say, are practically excluded by this law and, if not, they are minimal and in the sphere of what we as the Interresor Working Group couldn't predict, because when you write the law, you have to predict the mass of future undefined cases and based on that to tailor these solutions, define legal norms. There are initiatives here, I said, so this is a few steps away from the existing system, but it's going to have to work here. The Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice, the Central Election Commission, must review all the laws, it is not just a conflict of interest, it is both incompatibility and one solution that actually regulates the matter. This requires – of course, this crosses the capacity, which I am talking about, Interresor working groups – an entire project is needed for this, and the state needs to be engaged. Of course, the engine of all this should be the Council of Ministers and, if it is necessary for an inter-resor working group from Parliament to coordinate, it is of course up to Parliament to decide on this. But then, when we talk about the law in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17333	Thank you. Yesterday was Lijanković now is Jerković, anyway. Lijanović. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17334	Here, I just want to explain a little bit, so there might be no misunderstanding. So my discussion was about preventing corruption as well as my colleague, we just have two ways. Each ban in itself immediately promotes corruption. And I think that by this law and these prohibitions that we put into it, practically, we encourage corruption. But if we go to regulate it in a transparent way, that it's all public, then there's no incentive for corruption. 5 Here, I'd like to try to think about it in that direction as well. The goal is to prevent corruption, but it's important how we do it. Here, if we take just one example, meaning someone, young MPs or MPs, if they want to make a marriage, they directly threaten that family with whom they make a marriage, because at the moment of marriage, they stop being able, if they are entrepreneurs, to do anything more significant with BiH institutions. So here we either shorten the right or encourage corruption that these entrepreneurs are then looking for ways to transfer their entrepreneurial activities to some third or fourth persons and basically...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17335	Wait a minute, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17336	...by essentially causing further corruption. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17337	Thank you. The second vice-president, honourable MP, Mr Belkić. After that, Sokolović. I see you signed up, right? You're not, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17338	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, Mr. Živković has the right that we are not exactly prone to the stage when the expert group is on stage, so to speak, when we have a working group, to work with the group, we are always waiting for that official, procedural part. I guess that's the way it is for us to do some practice that should probably be changed. As for me personally and the club, we will absolutely support these changes and we believe that this is a kind of progress, especially when it comes to the exemption of these educational, health institutions, etc. Because we really had a practice of conflict of interest for a man to be on a school board where you can help the school, etc. Of course, it's a matter of compensation. It would be good for all high-ranking officials, etc. all these activities are carried out without compensation. Why did I answer? Basically, when we are discussing principles here, so these changes and additions and laws, otherwise, mostly speaking, what Jerko was talking about, what he can't, what is forbidden, etc., and they don't say -- of course, it's understood if something isn't banned, it's allowed -- but it might not be bad, of course, it's for me and for people who think this is the second stage we try to do it, that in some way through this law we stimulate, if we don't stimulate, but that, at least, we remind people that they're volunteering. So we through the Law of Conflict of Interest, in a way, give an alibi or suggest that people don't engage in volunteering, free work. So I think we should find a way, of course, to me which, in some ways, I'm initiating. And here I am calling on my colleagues to think a little bit about trying to install in the second phase some amendment that the possibility of volunteering is open, so free work, especially the one with the humanitarian character. And finally, here's to taking the opportunity, this is what Mr. Jerko was talking about, that the ban encourages action, etc. We are at one stage when the public and transparency etc. It's not a guarantee 6 that people will turn away. We have, say, newspaper inscriptions... etc., where you point to some behavior, but people don't mind that too much and they do. I think we should continue to adhere to the principles of ban, the principles of ban and sanctions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17339	Thank you. First Vice-President, honourable Ambassador Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17340	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, Election Commission, guests, here is the chairman of this committee, or the Interresor Working Group, in the name of all of us who worked, said the framework in which we were moving when we were working on the task of this home on the amendments and additions of this very important legal project in BiH. The way we work in this committee is that we could have done these proposed changes this way because we were working on a consensus system. So all of what we didn't have a consensus on in the Interresor Working Group is not a proposal for these changes and additions, although I and many other members of the Interresor Working Group think this isn't enough. I will... generally comment a little on this whole, this whole area, so to speak, conflict of interest, what we have today in the existing law and what these proposed amendments and additions would have been expected to be corrected. The aim of this law, as stated in its first article and in force and now further clarified and precise amendments and additions, is to prevent the conflict of interest of elected officials, or, now, to translate a little bit, to prevent the corrupt action of elected officials, to prevent elected officials, appointed etc., to whom the law refers, to be involved in corruption, to be, using their position, and to contribute to such a situation. This law, in particular, which we are changing is so rigid that in BiH, at least when it comes to government institutions, it should not be important today after six years of applying this corruption law. Because he was so set up in his provisions, so broadly set, so rigidly set, so here I am in the Interresor Working Group debate often asking colleagues: After six years of application of this law, how is it possible for us today to find, even after some independent research, etc., that BiH is highly ranked at the level of corruption compared to many other countries? If the law is good, it should not happen, because the primary objective of this law is to prevent corruption. So it's obvious that this law as it was, no matter what it's rigid, no matter what he sets some definitions like that, I'll be free to say, nakaradically,...so much that it endangers the fundamental human rights of someone who accidentally found himself in a position to be a elected official, did not prevent corruption. The question is, how do we do it? Is this the way it is, or is it the other way around? Is there any way we can prevent corruption through the law, the regulation that our closer and further relatives should not do any business, I don't say illegal or legal? Thus, the aim of the law should be to prevent the illegal action of the chosen, including those with an interesting connection with them, and especially the members of their family. 7 When we run for the positions, for which we are elected today, then many of us are likely to consult with members of the rope and wider families: whether to run, whether to support it, whether to accept a lot of things, so that, behold, their family member sits here in Parliament or in the government, is attacked by this, by that, complete family... etc. So, I guess a lot of you consult, I guess, too, to consult with those of the most important members of the family. Someone's family is a rope, someone's family is a lot wider. I will tell you that I, apart from those who are the least, are all four who live with me under the same roof, and I do not consult with anyone else. And I didn't ask my brothers or aunts or aunts or uncles or daiquis or AIDS, and I didn't ask anyone if I was going to run for office. I expected, normally, that if not for the program offered by my party, they would support me because I'm a close relative. But when they supported me, they didn't make sure that by the very act of choosing me to some position, their fundamental human rights would be limited. And I don't want to defend anyone who's willing to use their position and abuse it for themselves or anyone else. So, not just for relatives, but for anyone else. But by this law, and even this level of change that we've come to, we haven't ruled out, so we haven't ruled out the possibility, look, let's say, Article 8a) so you'll see that close relatives... are, e, in such a position that when they behave in the way that elected officials are banned... they bring into conflict of interest and elected official. I'm living in a decent marriage for now, but for now. Tomorrow I could have a fight with a woman and she could consciously lead me into a conflict of interest if I had a fight with her. As long as we don't get divorced, eventually. But it's going on, you know, so who am I going to explain to me that she did it to me, right? This law allows for selective application, because it is quite inaccurately set up, so that the members of the Electoral Commission who have the biggest problems with this law, along with these so far, I don't think, we're going to put them off a little bit with these changes. But wait a minute, they know what's going on. As they act in the implementation of this law, so that all elected officials in BiH, to which this law applies, and it applies means through the law, through this law, because even lower levels have to pass their laws, so it applies to municipal councils, municipal chiefs, cantonal parliaments, cantonal governments, and now I don't fit all these huge levels, and to many advisers in all these institutions that I, I must say, I don't know what they are in this law, because they don't ask questions. So they're wondering how much the elected official allows them. He must not abuse duty, not them. ... It applies in situations where I'm disturbed by one of you here. And then I dig up a little bit and find that maybe someone's wife is out there engaged in some school board somewhere. By law, it's forbidden. I'm delivering an anonymous report that my colleague here wouldn't remember that I'm... reporting it and the Election Commission has to check it out. If one of us remembers, and can remember, that's what I was saying as an example, to write in one day hundreds of such applications to the Electoral Commission, the Election Commission has to check it out, because it can't selectively. It should have a capacity ten times higher than the SIPA, the DGS and all the police strukuts in BiH so that it can be quality-checked. Only if they won't check, maybe just the chosen ones. When I say "chosen ones," I don't mean "chosen adversaries" in the sense of this law, I mean "chosen ones," I don't mean this one. So we're positioning the Electoral Commission to non-selectively apply the law. I think the laws that are non-selective and that can be applied in an unselective way are very bad laws. And not to conclude now that I am against these proposed amendments and the addition of the law, because they are certainly an improvement compared to what we have so far, and I will probably, like many others, 8 probably, through the amendment phase, as far as possible, try to influence the repair and what we have here today in front of you, to get more than we have so far, which I think is really inconclusive, and that is why it is not worth this, but at the same time I will support through here another phase, join all those who will be for the initiative to enter very seriously into the adoption of a whole new law that will ensure the prevention of conflicts of interest and that will allow to meet the goal of adopting such or such laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17341	Dear Ambassador Lijanović: another replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17342	I didn't want to go as far as Mr. Lozančić did, but he brought us into a very awkward situation today because now our marriage partners or partners actually have a mechanism for us, if we're not neat, just make some business with the state and we from Parliament, or out. So, here we go, and we'll take care of it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17343	Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17344	Obviously, this law is related to many laws in BiH, among other things, and as my predecessors have already stated, the Law on Council of Ministers, the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration but obviously also to the family law processing the relations of marriage partners, so that I will not process this sensitive territory specifically. But I want to say what the resolution group in its initiative stated here, I hope you've read, that this was a bad law. A bad law that this parliament did not pass, but a law that came from the other side, which we in the Interresor Group managed to fix quite well but remains a bad law and certainly needs this recommendation, the ad hoc work group initiative, in the coming period to use to make a new law. However, in this regard and with the possibilities spoken by some colleagues in the submission of amendments, I would like to give particular warning. Namely, this is the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's government institutions. The law itself determines the level of what this law should be and what level it refers to. So, in BiH's government institutions. It is not good for the amendments to go on changing the principles of the law and to destroy its basis, as its name and its contents are only. I'd like to warn you that they've done a lot of work in the task force. That we did it for the Law of Elections. That it is difficult to come to a compromise in BiH but it can be done and we have done so in the Working Group in Election Law here and in this law. Yes... the subsequent amendments, which are adopted in the Constitutional Legal Commission, question the great work and work that is done in this task force and which leads to consensus. And I pray the MPs have that in mind. I don't want to say that not 9 are allowed to be given amendments, but when they are given to take care of the non-fraction with the principles on which the working group has created a text that has a consensus. At the same time, we also give entities the opportunity to pass the Law of Conflict of Interest. I advocate that they be harmonised and identical at BiH level but I also advocate a positive competition. Well, if they make better laws and they apply those laws, why don't we make better laws than they do? Why don't we have a positive competition about it. I am not a advocate of one law for all, because simply, positive competition and demand that will be better in BiH is, in my opinion, a much better option. For this reason, we from the SNSD will also submit the proposal of the Interresor Working Group, support the initiative and the Work Report. Thank you. I have reported: Ambassadors Novaković and Bešlagić, Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17345	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, ministers, I must first say that I am joining the reserves of a number of colleagues related to this law and, of course, related to the amendments to this law. What it may have been to expect is that the amendments to this law will also be accompanied by amendments to some of the members who have not changed these amendments, which, unfortunately, make it possible to have a selective approach to the application of the law. And that is, I think, a key problem for this law, which is that the Central Election Commission is in a position to address the issue of conflict of interest on the basis of applications or non-logins. So we can and can probably do it in practice that some colleagues precisely because no one has filed a report, not for what reasons or where the application has been filed, again not entering the motives, can come or not come under the influence of one law, I repeat, should try to avoid in any case. There's a series of illogicalities in the law that aren't treated here. I must say that really membership in some committees, the boards of some organisations, such as the Red Cross, such as the school boards, such as many other humanitarian organisations, has been disabled by this law by both the committees and the MPs and... their... closest relatives, and very often these institutions depend on help, not on financial assistance, but on the help of these people, means their relationship with these institutions. In this sphere, unfortunately, we have not entered these changes and in the next period to put this law under the bat again. Of course, in this law, we will support those solutions that are an improvement compared to the previous law, but I have to say that I have a lot more objections to those members of the law that are not even treated by this law today. We have time for this amendment phase. It would be good if our Research Centre had made one analysis with similar laws in the environment, so that we would have a much clearer picture of whether our laws, or this law and... which we are changing it, are more rigorous than the environment or not. If it is possible for this job to be done or if it is done by the end of the debate on this law, 10 so until the end of the second reading, it would mean a lot in deciding both on this law and on investing in amendments to this law. In any case, we from the SDS Club will have amendments to this bill and, of course, we will try to support them with a very serious argument and by comparing the laws of the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17346	Thank you. We have obtained these analyses and they are located in our Indok sector, so all MPs there can look for it. It may be a mistake that we didn't say it at the beginning but these analyses exist and they are already being prepared and are standing there in that sector where each of the MPs can take it. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17347	A kolega of Novaković's, very short for you. So, this Interresor Working Group was tasked with renovating whether, the Election Law, the Law on conflict of interest and the Law on the financing of political parties. The electoral law today is in the second reading here, already at the end of the parliamentary phase. The law on conflict of interest, here is the beginning of his today in the parliamentary phase, and these two laws must be made before the start, especially the Electoral Law, and, for this second one, as soon as possible, before the official start of the election process for local elections in BiH. And we, as the Interresor Working Group together with the Election Commission, have tried to make as many improvements as possible. I said earlier, therefore, in BiH the issue of conflict of interest, the issue of incompatibility of functions and the issue of various prohibitions that must exist, Mr Lijanović. The bans must exist, I mean, everywhere in the world there are, and there are in us, and it's not true that bans encourage corruption. I mean, that's one thought that maybe we should just work it out, is it, I think. But somehow it doesn't make sense to me, it doesn't fit, does it? There are, therefore, a mass of other laws and we have estimated that this is a whole one project to be done by the government. BiH seized one substance that it entered practically in 2002 when the High Representative imposed the Law on conflict of interest. After that, several laws developed across different areas, and now it's time to do, here's to express myself... mechanically, one general remont of all that. This is just a fix so you can move on to the election process. For that remont, you need to do all these tests that you've been talking about. This must be done by the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice and the Central Election Commission. This exceeds the capacity of this Interresor Working Group. And there is no solution in this law that is retrograde against existing solutions. This was said by all members of the Interresor Working Group, because there were indeed some solutions there that could no longer simply withstand criticism of any, but serious criticism. I ask that in that direction... you understand this thing, and please not a lot of amendments – every solution has been searched several times there on the Interresor Working Group, a lot of amendments – to destroy what we have done so far as a step. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17348	Dear Ambassador Bešlagić, pa Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17349	The Honorable Presidency, respected colleagues and colleagues, when it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest, I must say that the proposed amendments and additions have been made to the existing law of improvement. And I think it was correct of all of us to make a proposal in the Interresor Working Group. But the proposals came as far as they came. Today we have this material in front of us and, as we enter the amendment phase, I think all these remarks that are being made here today need to be translated in fact into amendments and try to reach a law that will be more quality. But let me just say a few words about one thing that's been mentioned here all the time. Such a law, i.e. such laws on conflict of interest exist in all countries of the environment but also in EU countries and are simply the conditions of ban, let's say, the possibilities leading to the prevention of corruption, is it, conflict of interest within... within the authorities etc. To appeal to human rights at this point, I think that if we're going to respect human rights as something, then this law shouldn't. But our relationship to the conflict of interest should be quite different from the current situation. And I think at this point connecting human rights... strictly excludes the possibility of working in BiH institutions without this law would be illusory to seek adequate solutions. Therefore, we believe that this bill is good, that in the amendment phase as a SDP we will give some of our amendments in terms of improvement, as far as possible, and that, in that sense, we should go to the point that, if possible, it should be possible for a public debate to be held in order to get an opinion and a broader one, but that is a proposal to be considered in that part of the amendment phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17350	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17351	Thank you. Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, guests, I absolutely support this law and I think it is a step in relation to the solutions so far, but it seems to me, because of the importance of the matter the law treats, that it would be good to have this law back to the commission once again that possible, even, and that a public debate is organized. I'm just going to draw your attention to the two areas that have seemed important to me for this story, because this law covers... the elected, executive and advisory, what concerns the electoral process and the Central Election Commission. When it comes to conflict of interest whose goal is to prevent crime and corruption, then I think this law should be extended to other areas, and I've noticed two things.../a brief interruption/... I want to say briefly. More than, than, to say the least, of several teachers from Sarajevo's universities alone, I was addressed as an MP by a request to warn 12 of a phenomenon that could be brought under the law and under conflict of interest, which is that a significant number of teachers... The University of Sarajevo produces its children to call a master and doctor of science even though they were average students. Now, take... what harm can be done with such a single phenomenon or what a pity it is if the father or father-in-law is a member of the Management Board of the Communal Enterprise in Travnik or Mostar. The founder, the founders of these universities are mostly cantons, i.e. some public institutions are entities, and the damages that are done are huge, and I think this parliament should have that in mind. And that this commission, or that we should all consider this thing because the damage that is happening, especially in the education process, and, especially when it comes to medical institutions, when it comes to specialization, magistrates, doctorates in the field of medical sciences, I think we can, that we, which is very important, about the head and I think we should, that we should expand this because finally and that is, and these are state institutions. The founder are cantons and entities and that thing, that thing should certainly be paid attention and pointed out. The second question is, what some, some officials in a very skilled way, use these holes in the law, because there is no perfect law. Where are we, especially from these Balkan spaces, unable to find, find a hole in the law? Well, let's see, for example. a man as an engineer or as president of a canton's assembly that, the Prime Minister of Canton, in order to become a doctor of science in the next term and there are several cases like that, I don't want to talk about names, I don't think... in this story it's not necessary. I think this story, if, if we're going to seriously deal with crime and corruption, if we're going to seriously cover it as wide as possible, of course we can't cover it, but as wide a range of these issues as possible, then this should be expanded. And, for what it's worth, we're going to try to make amendments to this action to expand this to all those institutions that the state, where the state finances, or where the state appears as founder and as a funder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17352	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17353	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, as counterpart Belkić said in the name of the club, we will support this law. I personally also think this is a major breakthrough compared to the existing one, but I want to say a few things. This is not, we are now talking about the Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH's government institutions. That's one thing. On the other hand, we all know that one of the most difficult problems in society is the problem of corruption. I think it may even be the biggest problem of this society. The question arises: How do you eradicate corruption? So far, so few cases have been made that the official authorities... have proven to someone corruption, the degree of corruption. These organisations that deal with the issue act on the basis of the perception of citizens. I'm convinced that most of the corruption is happening locally, at least it's the 13 closest to the citizens, and that's what citizens... as I would say, the best they can see. That is why I think it is necessary to support the law as proposed but at the same time to consider making another text of the law that will refer to corruption in the broadest sense, primarily in public enterprises. I will list one case of possible corruption which, I am convinced, is deeply rooted in BiH. Suppose one of us in the municipality is the head of urban and construction services and his wife or close relative has a private projecting firm. This gives consent to all possible interventions on buildings in the city, both for the construction of new and for changes in existing etc. So he's working at a private firm, and he's self-evaluating his projects and giving consent to his projects, and everything he hasn't done, he can't get consent. And by law as a whole, it doesn't seem to be covered. And that's what people see, the citizens know, and we're talking here about elected officials. I think, I'm sure, the least corruption there is is in the group to which this law applies. There, that's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17354	Thank you. Since no more reports have been made, dear Ambassador Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17355	Mr. Chairman, here I am going to try very briefly, my discussion will be that this really is the law that should have suffered the changes and complements, because it is evident that many subjects have noticed it. This Interresor group should indeed also be commended for making changes and additions in this form and, if not good, at least irritated others to be able to act in the amendment phase. It's nothing controversial. I don't see why a certain number of amendments would not be invested here, because that way, we've been doing the Electoral Law, and I don't see why, let's say, Mr. Džaferović didn't insist that there was no amendment to this election law, and that he insists that there is no amendments to this. We need to make sure that something that is not defined and regulated in this country is a special law, and that is, for example, the work of cultural and artistic societies, folklore sections and some sports and other organizations, that I don't now list them, where I would regulate by law that we all have to take one such cultural and artistic society or some sports organization, etc. And to help her, even though she's an amateur character, that's how we contribute to our citizens and voters who have chosen us. However, here it is said to be in the administration or in the management of a cultural and artistic society or some folklore section...... some association, there some young, whether in the village or the city, and all that is well. There's some kind of competition, their successes are good, they're talking to the municipality for help, the community that help can't be absolutely anymore. So immediately, we eliminate those people who ran that, who prepared it, provided that such a thing that is positive is doing, which is a positive thing to get our children off the street, etc. Brings us into a very awkward position. That's why the amendment should try and remove it and what the rest of us were talking about but, in any case, this Interresor group is on the right track and it's doing well and it needs to be further upgraded and it needs to be reached by one quality law that will allow for development and this is now what we're talking about. Thank you very much. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17356	Since Honorable MP Džaferović is the legislator, he has the right to report more than once. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17357	I'm sorry to answer, I think, for the fourth time, about this matter, but I hope I didn't... I didn't use what I was picking up but it was the result of the need. So, the Interresor Working Group is a proposing. I'm one of the... 1/12 in this law, 1/13, because 13 of us were members. This is therefore the proposal of 13 people from the Council of Ministers, Parliament, both homes and the Election Commission. Mr. Okolić, so I didn't say no amendments. I've just pointed out one thing that we've met in the work of the Interresor Working Group, and that thing is that when you have the old law as it is, you make new solutions, then you have to have a concept, and then you agree it all together. If you pull one dice out of all that now, you're going to tear down the entire system. We have encountered or encountered this problem in the course of... the work of the Interresor Working Group and of course the amendments and who can prevent or I call for them not to invest, of course invest them, but take care of this matter, take care that this is neither in my opinion nor in the Interresor Working Group's opinion one... whole solution. You've listed a case of cultural and artistic societies! So far, Mr. Okolić, no one could have been a member, no one could have been a member. This solution goes to the fact that in the future you will not be able to be held accountable in that society, and only if it is financed from the budget by over 10,000 marks. So, you can be everything else, but you can't completely delete that provision because there's a string and of course you can be on the executive position where there's no budget financing, but where there's a budget, where there's budget financing, you have these non-profit organisations that are on the budget, and this is the budget. We are also a budgetary institution and elected officials have ties to the budget. You have to have that mechanism, this one. I think that this solution is now an improvement, so we've only reduced it to budgets, and only those that are funded by over 10,000 and not all prohibitions, but only to do this executive duty in those institutions. And finally, I was thinking – and regardless of the need to answer Mr. Okolić – let me know. I ask you to read very well these initiatives that we, in the context of the law, have addressed, initiatives and the Interresor Working Group Report. We have noticed everything that is being said, and under point (a) is said: the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions addresses the issue of conflict of interest of elected officials, executive officials and advisers as well as their close relatives when it comes to status bans, and interested persons involved in the wider financial interest. We have seen, therefore, that there is a legal gap when it comes to preventing conflicts of interest in the judiciary, the defence and the state services because the regulations governing these areas have not introduced a status-interest ban on close relatives and interestedly connected persons, which is why it is necessary in the current BiH regulation to regulate this area. 15 We also point out under point (b) of the different treatment under the Election Law and the problems of the Election Commission when it comes to sanctioning elected officials, MPs, directly elected officials and those in executive... power. And finally,... as a third initiative, we have stated that it is necessary, therefore of course to look at all this, to take this matter into account also the Law on conflict of interest and the Election Law and the Law on Government and Ministerial Names, the Law on State Service, the Council of Ministers Act, etc. and fully edit this matter. That's why it takes the engagement of whoever's in charge of this country. It's the Council of Ministers, their ministries, election commissions. It is a project that we should now announce and that we will have in, perhaps, a year, two years, three years,...and this is just an improvement so that we can make easier local elections, because this matter and election issues are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17358	Dear Envoy Okolić: Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17359	Well, I, Mr. Džaferović, just commended the Interresor group for getting changed and supplemented and not arguing that you had the best intention but I don't see any reason why anything can't be fixed at this amendment stage. Second thing, you said not to spoil you with a large number of investment amendments concept yours etc. Ma, I'm not afraid of you, you're an extremely high-quality group, just when you've invested 99 more amendments, you're able to sort it out nicely and make one more quality, or, of all these amendments, choose the best proposal of this law through changes and additions. And in the end, just so we don't let them steal away from us somewhere to damage, by chance, what I mentioned earlier, amateur sports-cultural or some other organization, because of some minor changes in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17360	Thank you. We are no longer registered, but I feel the need, given that representatives from the CEC have worked with us in the task force, if they need to. Mr. Arnautović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17361	I would like to welcome you on behalf of the Central Election Commission of BiH. 16 We enjoyed listening to these discussions. I think that at this amendment stage, there will really be more grinding or precision of certain norms so that we can get this law in the circumstances that are possible. I'm not going to talk about this historic flow, I guess it's already all known to you how it came to be. You should know that in the Central Election Commission, or then the Election Commission of BiH, at the time when this law was passed and when the Election Commission adopted the Manual and implemented this law, that he was the deputy High Representative of the Election Commission and the Head of the OSCE Mission and the Deputy Chief of Mission of the OSCE, and this is the first time that within the framework of the BiH Parliament, it is the essence of this law that every norm is being searched, watched and, hopefully, that this will result in one, one, one, one, I say again in these terms, one good text of the law. I would like to repeat the words of the honourable MP Džaferović, i.e. our application. Help us get this bill as soon as possible, just like the Election Law, is it, like the Law on the financing of political parties! That as soon as I say, I mean and I ask you to bear in mind that on 8 May we must call elections for local authorities, local elections and, therefore, positive legislation, with those solutions, with those laws as they are on that day. That's why I appeal, and please, whatever you can do to bring these necessary laws by that date. I would just like to say to this occasion that the CEC, or its Department for the Implementation of the Law on Conflict of Interest, has a good team of lawyers, investigators, with a huge database, with technical assumptions that it can closely monitor the application of this law at all levels of government in BiH and that in this sense you have confidence in the impartiality and independence of the CEC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17362	Thank you. At the same time, I would like to thank, in front of the task force, all those who have helped us in our work, NGOs, OHR and OSCE representatives, and I hereby conclude the debate on the 13th agenda. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. Proposal for a drug and medical law (first reading) On 6 March 2008, the Council of Ministers submitted the proposal for a law on medicines and medical means in the procedure. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis and principles on 28 March. I'm opening a debate in my first reading, and I'm calling on the promoter if there's a need. There is. Dear Minister of Civil Affairs Mr. Nović. Here you go. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17364	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, it has been known that for a long time, I would say, for many years, efforts are made to regulate the area of medicines and medical resources in a unique way. The Federation of BiH and RS, based on different laws and regulations, deal differently with issues of production, wholesale trade, imports of pharmaceutical products and medical resources. The Brcko district has no regulations in this area, which together results in the fact that BiH does not have a single market for medicines and medical means. The front, unfortunately, means that there is no adequate mechanism for the protection of drug users, i.e. citizens of BiH, on the market of medicines in BiH. The adoption of this law aims in an adequate way to regulate the market for medicinal products and medical products, more specifically, regulation of production, transport of large, or imports and export of medicinal products and medical products, as well as conditions and measures for ensuring the quality, safety and efficacy of medicinal products and medicinal products used in human medicine, surveillance of medicinal products and medical products on the BiH market, as well as supervision of legal persons who produce and carry out traffic on large medicinal products and medicinal products. The subject of this law is not the traffic of small medicinal products and medical means, i.e. the traffic carried out in pharmacies and specialized shops of medical means. But one of the most important objectives of this law is certainly that there are neither drugs nor medical means that are not controlled or regulated by a state body specialising in the control and registration of this specific goods. Participation in the design of this programme was made by the professional professional public but their engagement is yet to take place, as the adoption of a series of sublegislative acts that need to be regulated in detail by all professional aspects of the production and transport of medicines and medical means. The law establishes the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Resources of BiH as an independent administrative organisation with legal personality status. The Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices should be a single body for the field of medicinal products and medical medicinal products and its establishment will allow for the first unification of the market for medicinal products and medical products, as the Agency is one body responsible for the registration and control of medicinal products and medical products at the level of BiH as a whole. The draft law is fully in line with EU standards and its directives, which is extremely important, as regards the area of medicines and medical resources, which is one of the conditions necessary for bringing BiH closer to the EU, i.e. a condition allowing for the real participation of domestic legal entities in the wider European market. The BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, as an authorised promoter, has established the text of the Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. Respecting the importance of the matter governed by this law and for the availability of the text of this law as widely as possible and in accordance with the Unique Rules for the Making of Legal Rules, which constitute a no-technical basis which BiH institutions adhere to in the making of regulations, the Draft Act on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices has been published on the website of the Ministry of Civil Affairs for almost a month and more, with all interested persons and individual drug manufacturers and the pharmaceutical community being invited to make comments and suggestions on the text itself. The response to this occasion was more than 18 useful and was extremely broad and was delivered to a large number of well-intentioned and useful, making professional, technical comments, suggestions and remarks. It is necessary to mention that during the period from 11 May to 11 June 2007 they submitted their comments to the address of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and thus further participated in the creation of this regulation, the following institutions, i.e. legal entities: the Ministry of Health of the Federation of BiH, the Ministry of Health and Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health and Social Policy of the County of Plants, the Institute for the Control of Medicinal Products of the Federation of BiH, the Agency for Medicinal Products of the Republic of Slovenia, the Intercantonal Pharmaceutical Chamber, the Pharmaceutical Society of RS, the Bosnia and Herzegovina d.d. Sarajevo, Pharmacija d.o.o. Tuza, Hemofarm d.o.o. Banja Luka, Farmamak Sarajevo, Farmamed Travnik, Unifarm Lukavac, University of Banja Luka Technology College, Faculty of Pharmacy of the University of Sarajevo, Association of Foreign Drug Producers in BiH, Chamber of Commerce of the Federation of BiH, as well as honourable Member Azra Alajbegović, MP at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. In order to ensure and actively participate in the drafting of this regulation, the Public Workshop, held on 20 June 2007 in the rooms of the joint institutions, has also been organised and given opportunity to all present to present their opinions and views on, at that time, the work version of the regulations, and to give their concrete remarks to improve the text. Of the more than 300 individual comments received, the majority concerned the same provisions of the law. Some 200 individual comments were technical and pointed to the need for linguistic improvement of text, and they were considered and fundamentally accepted, incorporated into the text of the law. About 50 comments were of a professional nature, while about 50 comments related to the provisions which were the subject of the earlier and subsequent alignment with the competent entity ministries, i.e. the Brcko Health Department. It is necessary to point out that it was objectively about observations, which dealt in different or identical ways with the same provisions of the law. Each individual comment, independently of the source, has been considered and consultations have been held with the competent entity ministries and the Brcko District Health Department on the alignment of those proposals, resulting in the inclusion of adopted suggestions in the text of the predicate of the law. Most of the attitudes have been fully agreed. Along with OHR representatives, the World Health Organisation, the European Commission Delegation, the Prednart Law was also discussed, so that, in addition to other things, respected and suggestions stemmed from the need for harmonisation of the law with European directives. The predicate of the laws on medicines and medical means is also addressed to the Office for Law, the Ministry of Justice, the Directorate for European Integration, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury and whose opinions have also been incorporated into this law. The proposal was also discussed at a meeting of the Council of Ministers on 13.9.2007 and 27.9.2007, with a prior agreement on the provisions of Article 4. Proposal for a Law and Opinion of the European Commission Delegation on issues governed by the provisions of Article 58(5), paragraph 1. The ministry of civil affairs agreed with the bill's proposal to the Council of Ministers in December 2007, which adopted in February of the month, and unanimously. The adoption of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, as amended and in line with all the suggestions put in place so far, will achieve multiple benefits per producer and wholesaler of medicines and medical means, especially for the citizens of BiH, which will shortly be contained in the following. 191. Establishing a single BiH market; 2. Establishing unique conditions for the production and transport of large medicinal products and medicinal products; 3. Regulation of uniform conditions as well as measures to ensure the quality of medicinal products and medical products; 4. The introduction of centralised control over the single market, which implies both the control of the medicinal product as a finished product in production and imports, and the control of substances from which the medicinal products are produced; 5. Introducing centralised control of the compliance of medical means; 6. The establishment of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, as the regulator and the only body responsible for the registration and control of medicinal products and medical products in BiH, is, most importantly, 7. Ensuring better, safer, cheaper medicines for BiH citizens and making it easier for such medicines to be available to the citizens themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17365	Thank you, Minister. Let's take it in a row. Dear Representative Alajbegović, Dolić, and Ajanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17366	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am expressing my personal satisfaction that we have received this law in the parliamentary procedure and I hope that this will actually create conditions for adequate control of the production and transport of medicines and medical resources in BiH. What I would like to say about this bill is that the law is fully in line with the European Commission's Directives on the principles and guidelines of good manufacturing practices on medicinal products for human use, medicinal products intended for human use studies since 8 October 2003. I would particularly like to emphasise Article 11 of this Directive, which says: The manufacturer establishes and maintains a quality control system that is given in the jurisdiction of the person who has the prescribed qualifications, because it is dependent on production. I especially stress this in the fact that he's a member of 58. The proposal for a law, Article 58(5) provides... which are the conditions which the manufacturer of the medicinal products must fulfil in order to be granted a licence for the production of medicinal products and says: The authorisation for the production of medicinal products for the territory of BiH issues on the basis of an assessment of the compliance of the use of good manufacturing practice and the assessment of the fulfilment of the following conditions, which means, under Article 58(5), that...the manufacturer has secured... the space, equipment and the place of production, testing and control, in accordance with the scope and demand of production, and the conditions for storage and equipment of the medicinal products. 20 I think that... this item about control should be explained more precisely for the reason why, in fact, it is important to stress that the manufacturer can also have so-called medicines. the contracted control, and not only its own control, since this lining is somehow inaccurate. I have reason to believe that most drug factories in the European Union base their production of medicines and quality control on contracts, and in agreement with European directives. So that a significant number of safe and efficient medicines produced in Europe, in principle of contracted production and analysis, are also registered in BiH and are trafficked neatly, means that domestic producers would actually be in unbalanced status, in fact not adequately competitive with foreign producers, because a large number of European Union countries and European Union factories have so-called ‘EU’. and contracted segments of production or contracted control, in which, of course, both must have adequate certification according to the directives of good manufacturing practice. In Europe, there is a smaller number of drug factories that perform the overall process of technological formulation of the drug, and a far greater number of drug factories are performing only individual stages in the process of developing the medicine, as would be the case in this situation with some drug factories in BiH. Therefore, if the lavender manufacturer is authorised only for certain stages of the formulation of the medicinal product, such as the tablet, secondary packaging, storage, final product dispatch, the same must be subject to mandatory control for these stages of the formulation of the medicinal product and the procedural control may be agreed as such. So, the final product is subject to quality control in its own laboratory, and also in a possible contracted laboratory with laboratories that are certified... The control of the medicinal product, meaning in the contracted, certified laboratories, is absolutely reliable and even with the control of the medicinal product in its own laboratory, which is more what it is and what it will do, if there are new drug factories, about the established authorised laboratories for the control of medicinal products, which are members of the international network of laboratories and are subject to regular quality tests, which further speaks of their quality within the European Union. So, let me make it simple. I personally believe that... Article 58 means attitude (5) and sub-assembly 1 should be specified, thus giving the possibility that, apart from production and transport to large and own controls, the manufacturer of the medicinal product should be entitled to so-called. the contracted control or contracted segments of production or control as it is actually specified in the guidelines, i.e. Directives of the European Union and of the European Commission on the transport and manufacture of medicinal products. This would, in some ways, have already passed a law that would be fully ready for the production and transport of large drugs and for the countries of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17367	Thank you. The following is reported by the esteemed representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17368	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, certainly there are no areas in BiH that are more disorganised, and more important for BiH citizens, than production, 21 traffic, drug control and medical resources. This is my finding, and despite the fact that there are no fewer countries with several health ministries, institutions, agencies, chambers, large-scale drugs and various other institutions, which should be in the function of editing this important area. Since I have long and professionally tied to the production and transport of sanitary materials and auxiliary medicinal products, I have to present just a few examples of absurdities, which are present in this area in BiH. One company from the Great Claude before the war was the largest producer of sanitary material in the Balkans and among the largest in Europe. Among the first firms in the former SFRY, she received a certificate for... norms or norms of good manufacturing practice, the first BiH firm with a C sign. This status shall, as known, be controlled annually and periodically certified by the European Union and given the possibility of exporting products to European Union countries without registration of those products. This rule for this company was valid in the European Union, but not in BiH, not only did this company carry out and had to register products in Sarajevo already these days, for example, it must also register products in Banja Luka for participation there in the tender, because they do not recognise what is worth in the European Union or what is worth in Sarajevo. By the absence of standards, without any control of this company, it is today the right to sell sanitary material in BiH's tenders, because it cannot be competitive with material from the Far East, which comes without any standards, which is also repacked, confects in garages and comes to our health institutions. There is no better situation in both medicines and other medical producers and other medical resources in BiH. I didn't say this for promotional purposes, because this isn't exactly for promotion, but I said this to bring this a little bit closer to our real problem. For this reason, I welcome the regulation of this area and the adoption of laws on medicines and medical means, in order to finally protect, first of all, citizens who are consumers of medicines and medical means, and then also protect domestic production, not by any measures discriminatory, but by introducing standards and controlling their application. As it comes to first reading, I'm not going to talk about the essence of the law, but I'm going to point out one thing that, in my opinion, is badly and irrationally done in this law, which is an area that regulates the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. The way the law proposes, along with the functioning of the Medicines and Medical Devices Agency, which is unfortunately a product of political consensus, rather than a product of profession, which should at least apply in this area. I unreservedly support the constitutional equality of the people and I am for decentralisation and authorities, etc., but forgive me, I can't be for solutions that need the headquarters of the Medicines and Medicine Agency in Banja Luka, its control laboratory in Sarajevo, and the main pharmacovigilance office in Mostar. This is a picture and an opportunity to form our country that is full of absurdity and irrationality and movement so-called ". National interest and where the interest of the profession should be more important. I don't know if it's any less evil than what we're offering, or these vast parallelisms that we now have, and which, of course, we're trying to do with this law. Of course, this law regulates many other issues in a quality way, but you can imagine how it will be implemented with such an agency structure, which represents, in an organisational sense, the extreme of that implementation. I know decentralisation is important, but this kind of tripartite decentralization at all costs and in every area is functionally harmful and irrational. There are a lot of other formulas for decentralisation from this one that one logical whole divides in this way. The worst thing about what can be very difficult here is that the law changes and the essence of the law, 22 questions and some other relationships, to which this law certainly rests. I will try to do something in the amendment section to improve this law and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17369	I thank you, too. The following came to the floor, the esteemed representative Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17370	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I want to express my satisfaction that this law has come into parliamentary procedure. We must say that it is not the first time that it is a similar law, in fact of the same purpose, but it has been in parliamentary procedure in the past term and it has certainly experienced what it has experienced, but for no reason I am glad and I truly express my satisfaction that this law has now come back into parliamentary procedure. Since my predecessors have brought up a lot of things I thought I was talking about, I'll be shorter. First, I must say that the minister has set very precise goals that should be achieved by this law, and I will only turn to a few goals. The first goal and first interest is to pass this law. Interest is, then, patients, health workers and manufacturers. Bosnia and Herzegovina has great potential for pharmaceutical production, starting with the basic substances that we have in Tuzla and other parts to very large human capacities that we should never forget and we should not underestimate in relation to other countries, so I will say in the environment further from the environment. This is the result of the very high quality institutions that exist in BiH and that actually enable the development of the pharmaceutical industry which is now in a very large development in progress, and I believe that in a few years it will be one of perhaps very significant industrial industries of production. The main objective of this law should be, and that is, to achieve a uniform and quality control of drug trafficking. And that, above all, is the interest of all of us Parliamentarians sitting here and already using some of the medicines, and we will potentially use them safely, because it is one of the most important and important segments for good health and any other practice. Certainly, the aim of this law is to reduce illegal drug trafficking, especially non-quality, means bad medicines, although I do not have the illusion that the adoption of these laws will completely eliminate illegal, illegal drug trafficking or, better said, illegal or, if you want, smuggling, etc., because even in the most developed countries of the world, with all kinds of control and non-control, illegal drug production and drug trafficking is up to 30% of all medicines in that country. You, when you look at it – it is very much, when we are more interested in this, then with the smuggling of cigarettes – the smuggling of drugs is the biggest, but certainly without a single law and without what is proposed today, in some way, we would not have any basic assumptions that we can reduce to the least extent illegal drug trafficking, because this situation, as it is now in BiH, with all will and all... which have been past the minister and others, because this law has been spoken of since 1998 and with the harmonisation of existing legal solutions in two entities, remains very large gaps that allow for the circumvention and the illegal traffic of the drug, including the worst and most tragic non-quality drugs and drugs of suspicious production. 23 Second, very significantly, the adoption of this law will achieve one goal, which is uniquely monitored toxicological and other side effects of drugs, which is important for rapid action, in order to remove these drugs from the market or assess their value, benefits, damage and that they may act quickly. And not a minor goal, perhaps the most important goal, which I haven't heard exactly, which I believe the minister said, is to enable the establishment of a state policy on medicines and medical resources throughout the country, which is the special interest of all, of patients, health care funds, health workers and drug manufacturers. If we have these goals, and we have them in front of us, I believe that the law, with certain repairs, will fully meet these objectives set by the minister and brought forward today by MPs from their point of view and view. Since the law is in a long procedure, and since the law and it has been at the public debate, and since the minister has made a huge number of remarks or suggestions, or whatever you want, in law, it is actually seen in the law, if we observe it, and I'm going to talk about the law in principle, means not immediately in particular, then it is seen that certain segments of the law are not exactly the same, the impact of certain ones is seen, I'm not going to say lobbys, it's immediately thought that lobbys are something bad, and I think lobbys are something good, because they can be lobbys and in favour of certain social progress, therefore, they can't be constantly lobbys negative, like we... attributed that we are one of the bad lobbys, we actually went to the interests that we should represent and represent the interests of the area from which we came from. So, looking at the law in principle, according to my court, there are certain areas that are very well worked out legally, even more extensively, while in the second place we have certain chapters or certain segments where a small legal basis is given and very poorly elaborated certain matter, which should actually be worked out in law, rather than leaving it, and it is left by this law that the expert council and director of the agency that is formed to bring them to some, I won't say, sublegal acts or some other acts regulate matter, which, by my court, creates one space, which will again be not so good, and therefore would specifically point to determining the quality of medicines and control of the quality of medicines. I've taken two laws off the Internet on medicines and medical remedies and drug laws and medical means by two of our neighbours, that means Serbia and Croatia and, if you're watching them, then by the control of medicines in those laws, it's so committed to precision that, to tell you the truth, it's nice to look at me. We legally regulate it on how to do and what to do, and it's legally regulated what can and how to control it and I think it's kind of missing in this law, and so I'm giving special attention to the well-intentioned development of this chapter on drug control. In the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of the Republic of Serbia on Drug Control, it is so elaborated that even in one particular place it is said that there is a national control, a national control laboratory. Of course, they understand the national control laboratory in terms of not ethnic principles but the principles of creating a state principle. Since it all comes down to ethnic principles with us, I might say that we should install a national control laboratory in this law, or, more specifically, a state control laboratory, a team before the talks so far, the discussions on this matter last, as I mentioned, since '98. A year. I had the honour of participating in many talks from Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Jahorina, with people who were with foreigners at the time, although this matter was then in the Ministry of Affairs with the European Union, was Minister Mikerević and then already started 24 actually one embryo of the creation of this law that we have today and then, I must mention, one exclusive and very important laboratory was created, a drug control laboratory that now bears the name of the Drug Control Office and this drug control office is actually part of a network of official laboratories to control the medicines of the Council of Europe and is a member of the Commission for European Pharmacopoeia, and has been following and applying the latest regulations in the field of quality control of the medicine. It is logical that the Institute continues, as an independent state laboratory and the only institution of this type in the country, to provide control of... medicines on the BiH market, thus ensuring the health of citizens in BiH, in line with the European Union's regulation for the quality of medicines in BiH. Like all other European countries, there should be only one state laboratory that is independent in terms of any influence and which will exclusively control the quality of the medicines on the BiH market, and also monitor authorised laboratories. It is not so regulated in this law, and I think that repairs, amendments, we should come up with such solutions, and I had, now I don't have any letters for you, and I had letters that, when I was working at the Ministry, which I was getting from certain European pharmacopoeia institutions, most commendable about the work of that laboratory. I personally believe that the laboratory is the most equipped in the former countries, not counting Slovenia and worse, I cannot know, the former countries of Yugoslavia and that it should be the interest of all of us, all of us living in BiH, regardless of our ethnic background or their place of residence or place of life, etc. that this laboratory is forced to one day this laboratory, because it is the benefit of this state, to be the benefit of this state, will become a laboratory not only for the body of the agency and the body that will control it in BiH, but also for one body that will be of significant regional value, and I am sure that... this laboratory with its potential and potential of other institutions that exist in BiH, and there are many institutions, starting from Banja Luka, from Tuzla, from Sarajevo, from Mostar, not only pharmaceutical and medical professions, but also other very important ones that are being created in certain technological processes, etc., I believe that it will be able to, and not only can attract them to work for Montenegro and Kosovo, and I think of those countries that have no chance of creating any good and quality laboratories. On other suggestions, I will not speak, because some have already spoken, and certainly some will say, but I am leaving myself to the right, so I will support this law with certain suggestions and remarks that certain people are making today, and I am leaving my right as an MP to make certain views and amendments at the amendment stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17371	I thank the honourable representative. I did not want to interrupt this inspired exhibition, although you have long gone beyond the time allowed, so please do not bring us into a position to interrupt you, and all of you sitting in the hall and outside this hall I ask that, if you need to apologize to get out of this hall, because I was uncomfortable listening to the chatter at the time of the representative's presentation. I didn't mean to interrupt my representative. So I ask all of you who need any story at the time of the session to get out of this room and do it there so you don't interfere with normal work. The following has been registered for discussion by the distinguished representative Mirjana Malić. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17372	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, thank you very much for giving me a chance to say a few words. At first, I promise I'll be really, really short. So I am truly expressing the personal satisfaction and satisfaction of the SDP Club that finally the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices has appeared in the procedure in this House, because it is something that has been missing so many years for our country. I am giving myself the right to send special congratulations to the resolution ministry, not only on the extensive work he has done, because it is your job, but also on the effort to organise a public debate, to consult through your work in the preparation of this law the most relevant number of interested, from producers to top medical experts, and all with the aim of really editing, as you said, from the single market to the unique conditions for production to the special benefits that, in the end of the line, we are going to do so all because of the users of patients, the quality of medicines etc. Since it's about first reading, I'm really not going to give myself the right to waste our time, elaborate what it should or shouldn't do any further. To me today was the goal of commending this effort, to welcome our efforts to finally resolve this field with one system law at the level of the state and to announce that in some parts of the next amendment phase we will try to specify some formulations, using positive experiences... developed countries of the world, in terms of what counterpart Alajbegović was talking about, and all because of that, indeed, we create a level playing field and our pharmaceutical industry, to lead to such situations that there are no adverse effects and to protect ourselves from them to the end-user, i.e. patients. Once again, Mr. Nović, all congratulations and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17373	Thank you, too, Your Honor. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17374	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Ministers, respected guests, Bosnia and Herzegovina has long awaited this law and I must say it is amazing that, in fact, 13 years after the Dayton Peace Agreement in BiH, this one of the most significant laws on medicines and medical means has not yet been passed. We have an absurd situation, and that is, if we talked to someone, nobody would believe us, that in BiH you can't deal with wholesale drugs unless you have two permits and you're applying. Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of the few countries that does not own the drug register. I don't think there are any countries in the world. Bosnia and Herzegovina may be the only country that doesn't own its own pharmacopoeia, so a collection of prescriptions for drug making. In such a situation as we were in, I believe it is a very important proposal of this law in the first reading, and indeed as my respected colleagues are predecessors: I congratulate Minister Nović, the Council of Ministers who came out with this proposal. We are aware that this was done under an escort, a awake escort to the expert public, that they agreed both entity ministries and 26 agencies and pharmaceutical societies, and I think that this is a very important step that has been taken. Now we'll have one agency. We will no longer be in a position to issue two permits to sell the drug in one part of BiH, to reduce the monopoly that is surprisingly misused in the pharmaceutical industry, to the least possible extent, we will also be able to have one drug control laboratory in BiH, it is very important and that we have one pharmacy bureau... also in BiH. What is very important is that the way this law is written -- I have followed, since there have been proposals of this law before, while I was still in the entity parliament, I have been in a position to monitor how much this law is now in a certain sense, when it is combined with the laws of the countries in the environment, I must honestly say that I do not feel that it falls behind in its quality for similar laws of the countries in the environment and what is very significant – that it fulfils the European Commission's obligations. We should also not forget for a long time, under constant warnings from the European Commission, that we should pass a drug law in BiH, and that this is one of the conditions in general in the process of approaching, or joining BiH's European integration. It is very important that, in this law, the institutions established are indeed on a respectable level of expertise. So, all the institutions, from the agency, from different professional bodies, so I'm sure we'll be in a position to have a fully regulated area, which is of exceptional state, what counterpart Ajanović said, important to every BiH citizen. The SNSD MPs' club at the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, and also in the House of Peoples, will support this law, not only in this first reading, but also in the commission phase, and in the second reading, so that it has absolutely our support in general and participation – we will be active in all these phases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17375	Dear Ambassador Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17376	I hope there's no more doctors, so I'll watch as soon as possible. Of course, the Party of Democratic Action Club also strongly supports and welcomes all the efforts made to reach this law. This is not, of course, the first attempt. We know that, there have been previous attempts, but this approach, with its serenity and efforts to achieve solutions that would improve practice, I think it is worth the support. Of course, such a law will not only contribute to a single segment by contributing to a unique economic space but it is, what may be more important to us citizens and expect, that it norms the conditions and possibilities to ensure the quality and safety and effectiveness of medicines and medical resources in human use, and that is what this law should surely achieve, but that, without looking at the practice of some laws that have adapted to the existing state, and not changing the existing state, I think it is about people, human health – that we should pay particular attention to. I will reduce the discussion to an extremely short measure, asking two questions to the Proposer to use at this stage of the law. In fact, since the aim of this law is what I have said and what citizens expect from us, I think that the issue of drug control is one of the fundamental principles, which in this law needs to be properly solved. We've had this problem before in the law, and we've argued about accepting analytical cetifications, and there's an exception that 27 ct of analysis must be done in BiH, and that's the sovereignty of the state that every country has, except for exceptional cases where our laboratory can't do such as serums and vaccines and infusion solutions, very specific matter, and everything else needs to be done in the country. We now have a control laboratory established and is said to be in the position (1) of Article 9 of the quality control study of medicinal products carried out by a control laboratory within the Agency, a very clear provision. However, Article (2) for the tasks of specific analyses, which cannot be carried out in the Agency, the Agency may hire other authorised laboratories, and this is quite correct, however, says, or for the tasks of the control of medicinal products, therefore, for any control of medicinal products in addition to the control laboratory, the Agency may hire any laboratory. So it's not just the control lab, it's doing any other control lab, of course, it's later said that the authorisation of the control laboratory will be given to someone else by the Agency, the Expert Council will determine the procedure, etc. The question arises: Why the BiH control laboratory, if it will work there, one segment of control, and all other possible controls will be carried out by someone who will be authorised by the Agency to perform. What if dozens of such authorized labs show up? What about those criteria? Who's authorized to follow it, etc. And I think there's really a need to establish an authorized lab, because the lab can't get one of those, but those powers need to be authorized by other labs. The only possible way is for the control lab to give the Agency, that it gives those powers, and that in this way we have some kind of subordination and that we have a uniquely arranged space. I think, later members are confirmed, that... a series of labs can be authorised. I think that in this process of granting the authority to withdraw the process and that as much as possible in a more unique way and, of course, this subordination from the state level should be reduced. Second question. Here in the accompanying text is the issue of Article 58, which is a question of meeting the conditions of good manufacturing practice for drug manufacturers. There's been a really long discussion and a lot of extensive debates. I would also ask the promoter to explain this correspondence and this elaborate with the European Commission which has been stated here that it has been done and that some answers have been received. What answers have been received? In this respect, given existing practices in our neighbouring countries, in the context of good manufacturing practice, it prescribes manufacturers to have quality control within both Croatia and Serbia. This proposal of our law in article 58 mentions control in production, but not control, does not condition quality control to have, etc. It is likely in a conversation with the European Commission that some principles are not required. However, we really need to take care of the region, of relations in the region, of competitiveness in the region, and of achieving a solution that will ensure equal treatment, we need to provide regulations that will allow equal treatment and equal starting position for our producers and for our producers alike with producers in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17377	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17378	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 28 I have waited for these doctors, all MPs, to say a few words, and I will not speak of this professional part of this law. I'll talk about what seems vague here and ask the motionary to explain it to me. In fact, the laws define that entities are in charge of registering companies from all areas and, among other things, this area. So entity bodies give permission to register a company. The law now defines the Agency at BiH level as issuing permits to do so. So, if a company is registered at the level of drug entities to be able to carry out the process, it has to be authorised by the Agency. In other words, it is limited use of the entity's competence to register these companies because if they do not receive this authorisation, then this company will not carry out its activity and the function of its existence makes no sense. So, I'd like the promoter to explain to me whether I'm right about this finding. Furthermore, Article 140(5) provides that the Agency suspends valid individual licences, while requesting that the specified documentation be completed in accordance with the rules. It's logical for me to invite the Agency to complete the documentation, so if it doesn't add up, then suspending it will mean such a permit. I think that would be more logical, if it were to take into account the fact that after, that the evaluation process and confirmation of the permit that is under way remains in the entity's jurisdiction, then it would be logical for this first position to go in this direction. It is also defined here that the tasks of inspection, production and transport on large medical means...means the agency itself, in other words, so the Agency will get one new service, it is an inspection service. So far, these services have been at entity levels. Does this mean that from this moment on he will no longer be at entity level but that he will exclusively be in the jurisdiction of this agency. And, of course, individual provisions of Article 140 refer to the entity's obligation to do some of the work concerning this law. I believe this required the consent of the entity. So entities had to agree that from this moment on they accept that these tasks on behalf of institutions that were now being shut down are being taken over by BiH-level institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17379	Thank you. Since the deputies aren't here, you won't mind if I correct two incorrect allegations from here. One false allegation that all doctors have completed their discussion, which is not true, because I haven't said anything about this law yet. And the second is the correction of my esteemed colleague, Prodanović, who goes in the direction that we support both the first and second readings in this form, and we will change very carefully to... consider and we are always at the point of view that it is better to have than not to have the law. Dear Minister: Answering questions and discussing. Here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17380	Of course, it's always a danger to go out for this pay phone and talk about such a dangerous job, and especially when a man is not a profession that requires it to be discussed to the ground, but I don't think it's a shame to say that if we don't know anything today, we'll know what day it is. As far as the members are concerned, first of all, Ambassador Dolić has asked questions about the Agency's headquarters, laboratories and the Office for Pharmacovigilance. It wasn't just a political decision, it was purely for practical reasons. Why? In Banja Luka, Republika Srpska already has an Agency for Medicinal Products that has existed for three or four years and has 35 or 38 employees, who have already functioned for several years. Sarajevo has a great laboratory that has already reached a high level, a high level that can be included at the same time, therefore, in the work of adopting this law and it would be a shame, not to say tragically, to transfer the Agency to Sarajevo or a laboratory in Banja Luka. And as for the Office for Pharmacovigilance, it is primarily located in Mostar, because it is down there and the Veterinary Office whose laboratories have been funded by the international community and which have reached very high... The equipment will also be used for pharmacovigilance. So that's the reason he led us to propose such a solution in the law. Of course, we can, we can comment differently on each other. Secondly, honourable MP Novaković, this law has been given full consent from the RS ministry, which I, of course, cannot comment on whether or not it has been agreed with there, but in any case it has been fully agreed, as is the Federation, the competent health ministry, or Brcko District. Most of the spears were broken around Articles 58 and 140. Unquestionably, these two members have caused very much conflict, very many different approaches, very much to seek a common solution that will satisfy all sides in BiH, but at the same time not to violate the basic principles set out in the European directives. After much harmonisation, a lot of debates, we just wanted these members to be tested this way, so to speak, with experts in the EC, so we asked them to tell us, "Is that a satisfaction of European standards and do they think they can, to say, suffer any criticism?" We got a positive opinion. Of course, I am first grateful for your great attention and...the great gratitude you have shown to this ministry, but it is a long-standing work and many other people, many experts who have worked on this job and I will only be satisfied if we are soon to adopt this law in the second reading and, of course, the numerous or amendments that you deliver, we will jointly consider to shed light on each aspect and try to come to a unique solution in order for this law...to see the light of day. Thank you for everything and for taking a little more time.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17381	Thank you, Minister. I am concluding the debate and we are moving to the 15th item of the agenda, and I am warning the MPs that since we are on reform laws that after this point of the agenda we will give 30 lunch breaks, and then continue to work on the other points of the agenda, with the aim of completing today all the points of the agenda. Point 15: Ad. 15. Proposal for a bill on salaries and fees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) On 17 March 2008, the Council of Ministers submitted this legislative proposal to the procedure. The Constitutional Commission's opinion on the constitutional basis was delivered on March 28th. The Commission for Finance and Budget shall be responsible. Opinion on principles, the committee in charge delivered in 28.3.2008. I open the debate in the first reading and call on the finance minister, the respected Mr. Vrankić, to explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17383	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17384	It can't be done before, it can't be done before. Is it the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17386	Business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17387	I'm really, Mr. Chairman, sorry, and it's not the College's problem, but I'm guessing professional services. The representatives of the border police union and the SIPA are asking to attend this session and cannot enter the hall now. I don't know, professional service is that, they've announced themselves, they've done it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17388	I spoke to them yesterday and I said they could attend, and that wasn't the problem. I don't know why he's not allowed. He'll get rid of it in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17389	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17390	Here you go, Minister. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17391	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, fellow ministers, guests, here, allow me in a few minutes to try to give a brief explanation when it comes to the principles of the draft law on salaries and fees in BiH institutions. In addition to the draft law, detailed arguments have been provided on the constitutional basis of the reasons for the adoption of the law, the reasons for the principles on which the proposed solutions are based, the reasons for the provisions in parts, chapters, and individual articles of the law and the reasons for the necessary means for the implementation of the wage reform, i.e. for the concrete application of the Payments Act. The adoption of the Law on Payments in BiH institutions is one of the key activities related to the implementation of public administration reform and the creation of conditions for the establishment and improvement of a system of leadership and enforcement responsibilities for confidential public administration affairs in BiH institutions. The basic document drawing up guidelines for appropriate legal solutions is the BiH institutions' pay policy for 2007. – 2010 because this document sublimes the recommendations of international financial institutions and independent international consulting houses that have been doing research on wage problems in BiH, especially in BiH institutions. By introducing the principle of transparency, rewarding according to the results of the work, establishing balanced salaries for the same and similar jobs, flexibility and fiscal responsibility in the Law on Salaries are newspapers and in approach to the problem of regulating expenditure on the basis of salaries and fees in BiH institutions. We have opted for the adoption of a single Law on Payments in order to address the overall problem of wages and compensation in BiH institutions on a uniform and one law, and to ensure full transparency and parallel transparency of salary levels in all BiH institutions, which has not been the case so far. The law is divided into chapters in order to include specificities relating to certain institutions of legislative, judicial, executive, in the text of the law, but with respect to adopted principles. In addition, it is important to note that the overall problem of compensation is uniformly regulated in a special part of the law and that it applies to all employees of BiH institutions without exception. The special chapters of the law include legislation relating to the Constitutional Court and the judiciary, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers, professional military personnel, police officers, independent regulators and other institutions in BiH. Specific solutions have been simulated from the point of view of short- and long-term fiscal sustainability, and it is particularly important that the problem of determining salaries is directly linked to the process of budgeting BiH institutions on a three-year and annual basis. The basic heating system is based on legally defined payment classes and coefficients and pay basis, which is determined for each fiscal year. In this connection, Article 7 is one of the key elements of future wage reform, as defining the criteria for establishing the basis for the calculation of salaries and the way in which the funds are planned for salaries and fees in the BiH institutions budget is essential for the functioning of the entire public administration system within the BiH institutions. Starting with the principle of full transparency, while respecting the need for the need for budgeting in BiH institutions to be based on pre-defined standards, and particularly taking into account that over 70% of the BiH institutions' budget applies to salaries and benefits employed, it is proposed to establish a basis based on public 32 statistics. Also, while respecting the need to establish criteria that could show the contribution of BiH institutions to the overall development of BiH, it is proposed that the base for the calculation of salaries is determined on the basis of the average monthly warming achieved in BiH as a statistical data published by the BiH Statistics Agency. By estimating the other factors essential for establishing the basis, it is proposed that the level of the base for the salary calculation is determined at 85% of the average monthly unheating in BiH, in the year preceding the year in which the budget for the next fiscal year is prepared, which would practically mean... minus two years, respectively, two years back for the year for which it applies. In this way, we are fully satisfied with the requirements for budget preparation based on pre-defined criteria, and the principle of full transparency is met. The relative ratios of the coefficients in the pay grade are balanced between the legislative, judicial, executive and the range between the payment classes and the relationship between the highest and lowest coefficients are established in accordance with the criteria set out in the pay policy document. It is our commitment that the application of the new wage system does not lead to a reduction in salaries in the first year of application of the law for certain categories of employees, and that in the transitional period by 2010, a gradual direct salary in institutions that had significant deviations under the current regulation and practice of wage accounting. When considering this issue, it must be borne in mind and the fact that salaries for civil servants and MPs in BiH institutions have not been increased since 1999, and that in the last two years wages at lower levels of government have had a high rise, so that the current salary level of employees in BiH institutions is significantly lower than those paid at the entity level, and lower than wages employed in institutions at local level. The proposed solutions provide a balance between salaries for key positions of the legislative, judicial, executive authorities in BiH institutions. Also, the proposed solutions provide a balance compared to... legislation and practice related to wage issues at other levels of government in BiH. Finally, we believe that the proposed relative relations through the coefficients for police officers, the military, civil servants, employees, holders of functions and all others are a good starting point for resolving wage issues, and that the law itself can serve as a model for lower levels of government in BiH. I hope that through your discussion you will make suggestions for improvement so that we can eventually reach a quality uniform law for all BiH institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17392	I thank you, Minister. This, reportedly, means, firstly, as chairman of the commission, honourable MP Bahtić, so Belkić, Dolić, Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17393	Thank you, Chairman. I must say immediately that the Finance and Budget Commission has unanimously adopted the principles of the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions in the first phase. I'll make some introductions... what was heard on the commission and that the public and the citizens, since I see that the media and the public are very interested in the Pay Law and that's good, that's good. It is this law that allows the public and transparency, and I hope that the media will follow directly in future when there are other important laws, not just the Law of Salaries. Is the core task of our commission, the Finance and Budget Commission, is to support all laws, any amendments and additions to the law that will improve the efficiency of 33 controls and supervision of public funds. So this law allows and we take care of the macroeconomic stability of the BiH state, and I will tell you why. Also, I would like to commend the Resort Ministry of Finance and the Council of Ministers who did this law after the Finance and Budget Commission has reached a conclusion twice, this parliament unanimously adopted and tasked the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance to make a bill and the law is good. In the further phase, we'll see, maybe some things can be fixed, there's an amendment phase. I'm going to say something on the economic side, those who studied the economy know well, I knew it well, and these are market laws visible, that there are systems and subsystems, picturesquely,... branches and businesses. If the system develops rapidly, the subsystems are shut down, and even worse, if the subsystems develop enormously at the core of the system, endanger the system and shut down the system. In this case, the system is state, subsystems are entities and cantons. We as the Finance and Budget Committee will never allow it, and now it is because we are being passed laws at lower levels: entities, cantons, municipalities. All now have far higher salaries than civil servants and employees in state institutions. What does that mean? The erosion of the system, the erosion of the BiH state. We're out of all personnel, only from the Department of Direct Taxation left 200 staff with high professional equipment. We have competitions – here individual services, agencies – people will not report. Who's going to report for a salary of 1,000, 2,500 KM, when it's got twice the size of a lower entity, and it works less. Well, we now have every municipality, so there's USK in Krajina, I know that, every assistant chief has 2500 KM salary, and the chief's is 3,000-4000 KM. About cantons not to talk, entities not to talk. Those who – some malicious, some from political demagogy – are slowing down this law, believe me, are working against strengthening the state and state institutions. I will never allow it, we know that this bill is not a fixed category, it depends on many factors, on the economic power of BiH, on income, on excess income,... and so is all. That coefficient... will always be variable. Also, I want to say that the salaries in state institutions haven't grown in ten years, and the costs have been up. Right now, I'm not a professional, I'm just gonna stay that way, but I'm here to defend the interests of the state. In my opinion, this is a classic economic undermining of the BiH state's economic system. Also, I'm going to bring up some more things where we know: frames, is that resource number one! No good, no quality frames, no progress anywhere. Knowledge is power. Is it someone's goal to have none of our personnel leave us now? Apparently, there are some who have this, that goal. In my opinion, the aim of all these attacks, believe me, is to weaken the state and state institutions. That's how I see it. The increase in corruption, the grey economy, these small wages, so I'm, you already know that I'm... mostly those who collect revenue. It's all the control bodies, customs and DGS, the ones on the border. From the union talks, people say we can still raise at least 2 billion more, and it has a grey economy of 5 billion. So, the state doesn't have the money to give a little to them, of course, to get these people in the register of 2 billion, and every citizen has a bribe to put in a 100-euro passport! It's out of my mind. Give... reward the people who work there, it's a picture and mirror of our country, when foreigners enter BiH! They, first of all, if they have a small salary, first of all dissatisfied, corrupt, arrogant and all the worst they can be. Also, I'll put it this way – I'm always public, concrete and direct – I'll give some examples. Gentlemen, these high wages are being attacked, and this present wage proposal, believe me, is small in relation to the salaries that many in the institutions have. There are thousands of employees in Sarajevo who now have higher salaries than members of the presidency, than the president of the Constitutional Court. In public broadcasters financed from the tv tax, management has higher salaries than members of the presidency. Believe me, and now you can check it out, we journalists who have a medium professional 34 gear have a salary of up to 2,000 marks, and now a man with a college here in the institutions doesn't have a thousand-and-a-half marks, and they don't mind it. Why? Because he works there for someone. They have alienated power centers that don't fit this law, the system, people with 9,000 marks of pay, they work in institutions. There's no pay regulations, they pay what they want to stimulate, they're commissions, they're the ones who are against the law. Everyone has to come into the law, so my Bog and everything... Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17394	Thank you. Dear second vice-president, Mr. Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17395	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, today we are discussing the principles on which this law and the introduction, the minister, the respected minister, and the president of our commission have said about what the objectives were. Let me remind you, the initiatives for the adoption and regulation of the situation in this area have also encouraged this Parliament and international institutions, etc. So the reasons were absolutely present. But why did I answer to talk about the two principles that were mentioned here and that I don't think we've implemented until the end, so to speak. So if we said that the objective of establishing these uniform, comprehensive and fair criteria for public sector rewarding was to present and have a clear database of what is today's state? Partially, we know it, someone knows one part, someone knows the other, but we didn't have a total insight. So we haven't had a review of the situation that we want to change. We also said... that we want to improve fiscal sustainability, that we want to achieve economics etc. and transparency and fair wage structure and compensation. So, I'm going to talk about the principle of comprehensiveness and this transparency. So, when it comes to comprehensiveness – I think, perhaps I am wrong, I am speaking to the Proposer – that it is not fully respected, because some institutions could not find, or figure out whether they are the subject of this law. So, I primarily think of the Institute for Searching for Missing, where our country is co-founder, truth to will, is not the founder himself, but is co-founder with the International Institute for Searching for Missing and I think that, of course, although the number of people employed is small, I also don't think that the Potocari Memorial Centre – Srebrenica is being treated either. So here's how much of the coverage. If we said it was a principle, then we really need to include all the public funds users. Now something about transparency. So, as a very important way of running the process, here's not to say to the principle, I don't think we've done enough here and that the public of BiH has a very negative attitude towards this whole thing. The BiH public has seen this as a process through which these people, sitting here in this House, want to triple their huge incomes, etc. So we've missed, missed out on what we're changing in a transparent manner and in which direction we're going. I also think that we could have done the following, of course we might have the space to do that, that the principle of this uniformity, of comprehensiveness and justice, etc. It does not necessarily mean a non-selective salary increase. Why don't we cut the salary where it's inconsistencies, where it pops out of the system, etc.? So, the public of BiH, this house and us here 42 were professional or amateurs, if I may be misusing the term, experiencing as a group of greedy, unscrupulous people who have huge incomes. I'm sure you're all taking this very hard, and I have to tell you that 35 of me as a man is a terrible hit. So, I read in the paper that my salary, therefore, as a member of the College as a man who together with his colleagues runs this parliament, is my current salary, salary, not income, salary of 4500 KM, the largest in the country. My salary, I tell the press, is 2,080 KM, the salary on which taxes and contributions are paid. Imašal 800 marks, past work which is my thing, be with a warm meal: 3,420 marks total receipts and no other receipts for several years. So, I'm a professional and the salary of the head of this Parliament is so much. I propose and ask both the promoters and our commission to publicly publish in the next phase both the current state of the Central Bank and the auditors and the amateur MPs: total receipts and all that is financed from public spending. Otherwise, I will absolutely raise my hand for this law at the final stage. You can consider this demagogue, but for months we've read that we're thieves, that we're bums, if this is even a big salary of 2,080 marks, there's no problem talking about it, but we have to have justice, we have to have a comprehensiveity, etc. At the very beginning, I said, therefore, the whole action does not necessarily mean an increase, and we can also achieve these principles by regulating things, by regulating relationships. That's it. Please, then, in the next period, keep this in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17396	Thank you. The order for the discussion is like this – please also treat it – Dolić, Jovičić, Izetbegović, Jukić, Križanović, Džaferović, Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17397	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I will certainly respond in a different light than, above all, to a colleague of Bahtić, because besides the economy in the budget users, there is an economy, and among those who make a living in the budget and are allocated to the budget. I certainly think it is necessary for the area to be paid and compensation in BiH institutions to be arranged in a unique and transparent manner and in a realistic way, of course. The area today is not only non-transparent but also full of various marifetluks and illogicalities, so it is no wonder that the public is often shocked by various innovations in increasing wages and fees in BiH-level institutions, especially recently in those institutions at lower levels, entity levels, etc. I fear that the law offered under the Law on Payments and Compensation in BiH institutions does not meet the transparency criteria, and even less is said to reflect the reality and real relations in the country in the segment of pay and compensation. I particularly think this law is not even the minimum barometer in BiH's production and economy. This law will rightly cause negative reactions to the public and citizens, because so far citizens have half believed what they have read and listened to and watched from the media, and from today on, they will be able to believe 100 percent and convince themselves of something that is unreal and unfair in many segments. In the light of this law, the mouth full of reforms, good practice in this or that area, here, in this case in the area of rewarding budget users, are full of the mouth of creativity and others that I really respect, but as long as we look only through reforms, or 36 pay increases. We have experience in judicial reform. I would understand and far better defend this law if its reasoning was followed by reforms in the number of perpetrators, service quality reforms, quality of work and other reform parameters in countries where we are trying to compare ourselves to pay. Gentlemen, you can consider me a demagogue or some political profiteer when I say this, I'm not that either, I'm not even a unionist, I'm not even an excessive moralist, but when we talk about this, I feel a little ashamed when we're so gallantly sharing salaries and fees for budget users, and knowing how much worry and effort it is necessary to invest in the production of wages that is lower and than what we call a base in this law or what has a coefficient of 1. About the position of pensioners, unemployed and other categories, I think it would be demagogue in this opportunity to speak. It would be useful for the legislator, along with us MPs, to make an insight into these experiences and, I'm sure, that the proposed solutions, especially these coefficients, etc., would be at least a little more realistic in the law. Understand me however you want, but I think that budget users in this country, counting, of course, us members of the most legislative government – must share more the fate of the citizens of this country. This law, unfortunately, does not give such an impression. I meet like you, probably, countless young people and educated people looking for work 100 percent of the first few preferences give jobs to budget users, no one would go to production and economy where... there should be a second way to earn salaries. It's radical and this law seems to me to be further deforming and creating a budget elite, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, those who vomit blood to earn and pay several times less wages for jobs and equal expertise, even in often cases and far greater responsibilities. I will not support such a law, not even as a good basis, because I consider it in this form and at this time immoral and unjust. One who knows something from the calculation can calculate that this law in the beginning means increasing the fund for the salaries of budget users by 30% to 40% and that in this law there is a lot of so-called. reform fiction through various additions, stimulation, awards and others, behind which are not the parameters of quantity and quality of work. I repeat, I consider it necessary, so that this area is transparently and realistically arranged and I support Mr Belkić in this area when he asked for a transparent payment to be made, first of all from us, to other users, after or before the adoption of this law. I am not a proponent of the Enabling and Social Societies socialist at all costs, but, of course, I am not so that budget users are in this way an elite category of citizens and places of care for the political elite and their relatives and friends. I'd like, in the end, also to propose, which is usually when a law is proposed, that he said how much money it takes to implement this law. I think that would give a lot of light... to what's here in this law... laid out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17398	The Honorable First Vice-President: Replic. Here you go. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17399	Thank you, Mr. President. This is certainly the matter where all of us in this hall, and outside this hall can be great demagogues and collect cheap political points, and here, dear fellow, you said you were none of it. I have to say, I can't agree with you in that finding, so I came out to tell you. When you asked the Proposer if you wanted to listen to what the Proposer was saying, you'd probably hear it takes 70% of the budget for the implementation of this law. We adopted the Budget here, here you and I are with us, and in which we said that 70% of this budget for salaries and fees, etc., 70% of that budget is not regulated by any law today. If we want to bring down this law, the first positive attempt to get to a system, we're going to have an existing state where we're going to spend that 70% on wages again, except everyone's going to hunt in a blur, just like they've been hunting so far, there we go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17400	Wait a minute, wait a minute! Did you want a replica? You won't wait? You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17401	... economist by profession.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17402	I'm afraid you'll spend all your replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17403	No, I won't. Very briefly, you know, at this point, and yes, I'll save for the SDP variant, I'll leave. ... I will not say that political demagogy, but I ask Mr. Dolić: Which budget users did he mean? We know how many budgets there are, 199, I'd like to ask my colleague Rifat Dolić to explain to us in Kladuma where the DNZ 70% is in power, where the DNZ is, whether that's how his words were discussed when they were raised. Now, this is only the cause of the consequences, the cause that all the lower levels have raised our salaries from the municipality, the canton, the entity and compromised our system. Mr. Dolić, explain that to me. I won't let you make it stronger for me than the canton and entity of the state! If there's more to you than the state, I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17404	Dear Ambassador Dolić. Here you go. The answer to the replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17405	I am an economist, but besides this business, I'm both economists in production and so on, by chance, to deal with and manufacture, and there are, for God's sake, laws different from those in the post office or, I don't know, elsewhere. Here, I will, instead of any further replicas, ask that you here publicly for us MPs account for the salary of this here as offered. Here, give it to the public. What, listen, this is a participation in the budget, etc., come on, calculate the salary for one MP here. I guarantee you that this salary is 70%, 80% higher than what we have now – here, I did not exactly 38 count it – is it morally at this point, with all that we have there? I think it's immoral and understand it however you like, you mean demagogue, you want whatever you want, you understand how you want it. I don't need a political profit like this, let me tell you. But I don't think it's all the same to go past people without people telling us about our parents, etc. And, he says, look at this guy, look at that guy. That's what I have in mind, and you do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17406	The word has a respected chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17407	Based on the discussion of the last, Mr Dolić, it is not only for you, it has been sent to all MPs in this House. Don't let us treat each other that way. This law regulates all other institutions here in the state and no one speaks against themselves, Mr. Dolić, and all MPs. Only MPs here speak against themselves, we here need to protect the dignity of this Parliament and to say only – because it is in the first reading – whether it is the law in this country or...not necessary! Then, Mr. Dolić, you should say: the law needs to be passed, I will vote for it, and when the amendment phase comes, if you think these MPs don't deserve these salaries and those coefficients, put an amendment to it, but also be prepared to submit an amendment to both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, to all agencies here working in BiH, and who are not spitting on their work, but only MPs in this House do so. Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17408	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, also from NGOs and the media, here's the item of the agenda that is more focused than the world championship in any sport. Well, if I'm in the frame now, and I guess I am, then every grandma and Nana will say, "Here he is, that thief on the screen again." And those of you who laugh, and you're not on the screen right now, they have opinions about you, so you don't need to be funny. Now let me get serious, and it's all serious in this country. I support the principles, of course, for the adoption of this law and, gentlemen dear, it's not just 42 MPs. But here's the media? I keep begging them and stimulating them to write whatever they want, but I've never seen a picture of us sitting in our club in our 4x3 office. I've never seen anyone ask me if I have an advisor, an assistant when I'm preparing for a session, amendments, and any work we're working on! But since this law applies not only to MPs and ministers but includes, it seems to me, more than 21,000 people, but then I ask you, and also to myself, of course, the public: Will the two most important institutions, here for three, five years we've been breaking spears around the police, so the border police and the SIPA, will they come out and strike? Will there be a suspension at the border of crossing goods, people, capital, and I don't know what? Will SIPA stop arresting criminals and thieves? And I don't know, maybe it's this security structure that's closest to me, so people have come to Mr. Bahtić, do they think he has the money and I and we take these people and, of course, we can't promise anything, we try to do with the ministry what's normal and possible to strengthen the two most important security institutions of this country. One, which protects the state at the border and the other, which protects the internal structure. 39 Of course, I say, speaking of principles, you will see tomorrow in the paper there is no world-class event today, whatever happens, of this, and already every day – parliamentarians 6000 marks of wages and I do not know what they wrote. But it's not true. Since this law is not only passed for me, here I am going to start as Mr. Belkić. Pay my 2,012 marks, flat 840 and no other benefits. Yesterday I said, I can't take the Falle to Zvornik at all, so I have travel expenses, journals. And I'm happy with that, but enough, people, morale in this country! The councils of municipalities made decisions, raised all the salaries, look how little they have, and no one will write how much the Mayor of the Municipality of Rogatica has to pay. He has a higher salary than our chairman. Because he doesn't care about money, but he sees Mr. Živković, Mr. Lozančić, Belkić, and then they normally join us all, and here's the 42-member elite who took everything for themselves. I say, enough of the morality here and the cover-up between this or behind that and the big story, and the House of Representatives has just asked the Council of Ministers to prepare this law. I've never read in the paper that a reporter attacked the director of an agency who has 7,000 KM salary, the governor of the National Bank, who, I don't know how many there are, so I don't quote these live TVs. I heard the information today – but I'm going to check it out, I'm not going to go out on a date and attack – that there's a man who has 9,000 KM salary, but I'm going to check it out. Well, if that's all right, then let's cut our salary to 200 marks, theirs to 50, if this country is going to work! Of course, there is great animosity among the people, there is little living here and there is no need to call on other categories of socialism, but we are here to create a political and economic environment to increase their incomes. And it's not my fault, and neither are you if a pensioner has 200 marks of salary, a pension. It's a little, it's pathetic, it's humiliating, but this parliament won't help that pensioner by not passing this law. So, it is a complex law that causes the greatest attention, the greatest interest and, surely, it is – if you remember, when I was asking those parliamentary questions about the privilege of the institutions that we have established and the Council of Ministers, so when I got some answers, it may now look demagogue or even worse infuriation – then I said that our salaries here in Parliament are the least. In view of all the other privileges that they are, it's not just the pay, it's not just the pay, it's the cost, these, those, the travel, the mobile, I don't know, and when it's all added up, and then it's humiliating how many MPs have a salary against them, but you're not going to read it in any newspaper. You will read every day: Parliamentarians and – I guess – what with us sitting – not everyone says here are thieves, but of course they think. So, the essence of the whole story is that they're entities, and it's good that they did, they increased the salary before us, and the state, thank Bog, is running late, it's waiting for everything else to do in the municipalities, what it will do in some other institutions, and when we're up to it, it can only save us dear Bog from the public and let the new, give Bog, the affair, so that journalists can devote themselves to it. But here you follow for five days only: wages, wages, wages, thieves increased to themselves, forgotten poverty and poverty! That's enough morals! So I say that...the principles of the law should be supported, because this is the first time that this area is properly arranged and it does not apply to 42 MPs and members of the Presidency but to the eye... Twenty thousand employees. Right? Now, yes, to all these people, and of course in the amendment phase, see if it's possible, since we've adopted the budget, to increase these people. Believe it or not, it seems to me, there is no union of some institution that has not sent me a proposal and a letter and addressed the request to raise their wages! I guess you've been getting those letters, too, and let's try to find a chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17409	Time! 40
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17410	Here I go. In the amendment phase with the ministry, we have correct co-operation, we agree where it is possible to fix and, I repeat, I am particularly interested in the Border Police and the SIPA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17411	Thank you. Please, for the time being, when we said we'd take a break, take care. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović is on his way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17412	So, in public these days, there's been a campaign... against this law and there's been no comment on its essence, on the content itself, on the solutions that are good. She was just a boss about raising her salary, was she? So, the SDA supports, first of all, the adoption of a law that regulates an important area that is well-organized, introduces order into it. What is discriminatory, and rightly is discriminatory, it's pay. There can be no pay in the state less than in entities, cantons, etc.- I'm sorry. It'll come to a drain of frames. Therefore, we have one inflation, the salaries haven't changed in five or six years, wages must be raised by about 20% to 30%. And that's what it is and it's done. So, on average, a police officer was raised by 20%, an average soldier by 20%, a clerk, an expert associate, and so on. by about 10% to 15%, that's where we think that... needs to be increased, is there only 10% to 15%. And then the Minister and Parliamentarian 110%! We're worried that we have an outflow of personnel, that we're going to have expert associates leave, so we're going to give them 10%, and we're going to give ourselves 110%. The chairman of this body and the House of the People 130%, member of the Presidency 90%! I think that's the problem, the problem is the measure. You need to raise the wages 20%, 30%, if we can and 40%, everything in life is a matter of measure. Don't put salt in the soup, you can't eat, you put too much salt, you can't eat it again. It's a matter of measure how much we've added! The SDA also analysed how it was handled in the environment. The average salary in BiH is 681 KM, in Croatia it is 1.334, so over twice as much, in Slovenia 1,707 etc. In Croatia, the MP has four average salaries, in Slovenia five average salaries, we should have six average salaries from BiH, yes. However, there is all parliamentary life... led in one parliament. So, all the laws, all the size of that job goes through that one parliament. We only do part of it, we have entity parliaments, cantonals, we participate with, we patricate only by part, and we have six average salaries, they have four. So, the SDA is going to suggest... that these coefficients get a little better looked at, you don't need to watch that some telecom director, whether, there are 10,000 marks, we don't need to be referenced, we need to look at what the pay is to the miner, the people who chose us, who think we should be the most, we need to represent their interest, solve their problems,...not their problems. We don't need to be chosen to use the mandate so we can settle our pension well, good pay, etc. They need those salaries to be high and solid, but they don't need to be exaggerated, people. So the SDA is going to propose an amendment to look at it, to frame it, to bring it down to some normal measures, to raise the wages, but I say by measure. Thank you. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17413	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zorić: Correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17414	So, counterpart Izetbegović said earlier that, by making comparisons, whether, in Croatia, everything in one parliament is taking place, which is not true. Croatia has much more parliaments than BiH, because it has 22 counties and they all have their own legislative body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17415	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17416	About four years ago and slightly more, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly tried and led some initiatives to pass the Law on Salaries and Refunds. This lasted, about a year and a few days, all of them were attempts, but there was not enough political will, or enough majority to settle this area by law. In recent years, we have seen that in every audit report of our financial audit, BiH's institutions have been one of the main remarks was the lack of quality and precise regulation in the area of pay and compensation. Their recommendations were to resolve this in a comprehensive way as soon as possible, so to pass the Law on Salaries, fees in BiH institutions. We have finally come to discuss the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions. And here I want to express my opinion on this law, and before that I would like to commend the Council of Ministers for having made a very responsible approach to this work that has been working for a year and a half. We had an opportunity about half a year ago, just eight months ago, to have the first draft or advance, a draft of this law when we were not only representatives but also many other interested representatives of other BiH institutions but also other interested ones could give their view and objections to what was done in that document at the time, so the first draft or draft of this law. As today's debate on the wrongs of this law, I will try to focus on these very principles, but it is difficult to talk about something without having a concrete solution. So, as rarely in which law, this time the Council of Ministers wrote in Article 3 and what are the principles and principles on which the resolutions of this law are based. Therefore, the same salary for the same or similar business, a very important and important principle, one of the fundamental principles that should have been included in the non-existent or part of the documents that regulated this area. However, I will say that this principle has not been respected at all, nor with, I don't know, some very small percentage in the practice so far. And that's why we have very different salaries for the same or similar jobs in BiH institutions. So it's unsustainable and it should have worked this out a long time ago, and now we're just about to talk about it. Furthermore, uniformity, also, as part of this principle, is therefore to be carried out in a uniform manner in order to compare wages. Another very important principle is rewarding according to the result of the work. I think that, in practice so far, wages and fees in BiH institutions, this principle is not respected at all, because 42, I will say again, there are no criteria, or rules to regulate this. I think this is very important and important, and this will motivate employees to do their job responsibly and quality and to perfect their skills and competences for doing certain jobs. Further principle: transparency. Also a very important and important principle. So far, I'm going to say, there wasn't at all, except in one part of the users and, I would say, that the greater transparency over the salaries and the intention was in the BiH Parliament's institution. And that's good. And that is necessary, because the only salaries in the BiH Parliament were public and transparent, while salaries in many other BiH institutions and today are quite a secret. I don't know why and I don't know for what reason and I don't know what excuse for such a condition? I am convinced that, after the adoption of this law, transparency will be significantly higher and that it will be really possible for every job or function in this country to be able to know from this law that it knows exactly how much it is and pays. Also, when tendering for a job, you immediately know what it is to pay. Why wouldn't you know that? Furthermore, the principle of fiscal responsibility, the improvement of fiscal responsibility. I think that this is also very important and important and that the Council of Ministers has also installed this very important principle into the solution. Therefore, to pay, i.e. the total amount of all salaries, i.e. the sum of money for salaries and fees, to plan according to the country's capabilities, in accordance with the country's socio-economic situation, then the fiscal capacity of this country, etc., which will ensure a fiscal stability, which is also the obligation of all levels of government, of course the level of the BiH institution. Furthermore, the principle of flexibility, comprehensiveness, etc.? These are all very important and important principles that are respected in this law. The criticism of this law is numerous. I understand some. All those who are employees of BiH institutions, observe the law from their own corner, from their perspective and think their workplace should be better rewarded. That's perfectly normal. And it's perfectly normal for people to try and prove that their work, their work, is more valuable, that I don't know, either, through a solution in the law, an increase in coefficients etc. It's better to evaluate. We have received these days, especially the Finance and Budget Committee, dozens of letters from various institutions, including individuals, associations, etc. And I very, well, I say, I understand the way these people think. And we, in this second phase of the amendment, will really need all these letters to be carefully studied, in detail and to see if there really is a justification and that through the amendments, some relationship corrections are carried out, or these coefficients that then regulate exactly what it pays for a job. However, there are also those who criticise this law for some other reasons, and these other reasons are different natures. For example. Someone criticises this law because its unrealistic, current position, position of pay and compensation because they are too large, they will have to be reduced. And it's normal to shrink, because they were unreally large. And that's why this law is with its principle... the same similar business, complicity, etc. It simply brings all users to the budget of the BiH institution in a position to determine their relations. And on the very height of the salary, I say it depends on the height of the base that is once again determined here in a prescribed way that may be corrected because it is referred to in a very distant past of two years and so on. That's what we'll talk about when we discuss the amendments. Besides, someone's here from my predecessors, I could say who but it doesn't matter, so I'm going to do it. I'm not going to use the opportunity for replicas, but I'm going to comment on some of the thinking, or some of the opinions that have been expressed. When it is said that managers in state-owned enterprises, or companies with majority government capital, are not well paid, I argue the opposite, because the practice in most 43 companies with higher government capital is that managers have salaries based on management contracts of at least 5-6 and up to 10,000 marks. I don't think it's a topic, a problem that's none of our business, because it's mostly state capital, and I have information that entities and entity parliaments are dealing with this issue and that this issue is being regulated. If I can, if my judgment matters, I'll say, I'm giving full support to the entity parliaments to regulate this area. It is not normal for someone who has one part and a monopoly to be paid in the BiH market economy, to be paid, neither do I, of 10 thousand marks. That's not right. That a private company that operates by completely economic principles, without it, is in full competition, then, if it manages to earn and how much... makes it, if by law etc., and this is very questionable for me. So, all... high wages in public enterprises, I think you should bring them into real terms. Of course, considering the business of that subject. Furthermore, I think those who... uncritically and without arguments oppose and resist the adoption of this law, actually whether consciously or unconsciously, do one obstruction. They're doing an obstruction of the arrangement of this very important area that annually, it's already said, costs over 700 million marks. So I'm really asking all the opponents of this law, so as an attempt, that is, which will result in the editing of this area. So we still don't have to let that...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17417	Mr. Jukić, time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17418	...700 million, I'll end up very soon, 700 million marks in this country spending without law, based on some, I don't know, decisions, partial decisions,...now either too many arrangements in this area, should finally be arranged. Here, that's what I'm gonna end up with. I therefore give full support to this law, its principles and my HDZ party absolutely supports the adoption of this law. In the amendment phase, we will probably have some amendments to take further steps, which will contribute to an even better and better quality wage law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17419	poslanik Križanović, let MP Džaferović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17420	Please. I can give up. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17421	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17422	Dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that today at our session we have this very important law, which after 12 years we have the opportunity to settle 44 salaries in BiH institutions and I can say, by the way, right now, that I am very sorry that we have not done so before. If we had done this before, I believe it would have helped, to say, with ease and planning and financial management. The colleagues also spoke here about the importance of BiH's fiscal sustainability with one regulated law. It would be very good, actually, if we had this law, because we would in some way commit other institutions, even low-level budget users, to have certain rappers when it comes to redistributing budget funds to salaries. Not only for budget users, I believe that this should be a particular guideline and rapper, but also for many public companies that have also, in our opinion, taken control, when it comes to pay levels. You see, it's a good thing we've heard the principles of this law rest on in the opening presentation of the Honorable Minister Vrankić. So we heard that he was based on a salary policy that was previously adopted, also in the experience of the countries of the region, and that the goal was to edit this area in a unique and equal manner for all BiH institutions that are budgetary users. Of course, it's by its nature a very complex job but, of course, it's our job today to assess how successful it is. I'll just base myself here on two important, in my opinion, principles and a few specific details. We believe that paying classes, especially those relating to professional staff or, more specifically, civil servants, should be better and more valorised. I'm saying this for the simple reason that I guess we all know that the functioning of state institutions is very dependent on the expertise and satisfaction of these personnel. Well, that's one principle that we would earnestly advocate at the expense of certain categories that I'm now not going to pick up which, in our opinion, are unnecessarily and undeservedly valorized more than we should. We think it would be good for the specificities of the affairs of the judiciary, the police and the military, to establish restrictions with this law, and to leave these institutions with more autonomy that within their organisations, knowing the nature and specificity of jobs, offices remain part of the distribution of salaries. I will not – here, my colleague Džaferović asked me not to be longer – I want to stress only in general, that we have a very large reserve when it comes to all fees. We believe that this is a very widespread right, sufficiently vague and we will in particular express dissatisfaction with the matter of regression, addition to diplomas, overtime, doing other jobs etc. All in all, we are dissatisfied with the basis for the return of salaries, the way it is calculated and, in particular, at its height which, in our opinion, represents one serious generator for increasing the total amount of salaries from the budget. We are also dissatisfied with the ratio of the coefficients, looking from the point of view of the total range of 1 to 10, and in particular, I say, from the point of view within certain institutions in terms of this as I have already said, for the necessary greater rewarding and evaluation of the work of professional people in BiH institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17423	poslanik Džaferović, get MP Lijanović ready. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17424	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, colleagues, so I'm just calling on you to spend as much time as we can on the Rules of Procedure, nothing more. That's why I reacted. I see you're...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17425	Thank you for your help.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17426	...to spend twice as much time somewhere, of course it's not okay. You can say in 10 minutes what you're thinking. The president of my club, Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, expressed the SDA's views on this matter and I just want to repeat, so here's the thing to measure. So here's the question of measure. It must be objective here, it must be fair, and all data must be presented to the public. There must be a fair solution, because we need to know that injustice hurts more than injustice in some cases, and there is no need to wonder why the public reacts this way. We need to give a fair solution and we need to give a precise and precise explanation for that solution. And that's within the limits of these parameters we're talking about. And I support them. The average salaries of the environment of relations within the country, with which we need to measure ourselves and who we do not need to measure ourselves with, so all of this is said in a nice way. And let me tell you, I think this situation, in my opinion, is Parliament's fault. The mistake was made in 2003, when Parliament raised its own wages, and that was the only increase since '99. We're going to be here for years. Parliament itself took advantage of the situation when in the Council of Ministers the combined salary and the official supplement, then the MPs took it as a coefficient and left a flat. And today we have a situation and we need to answer the question whether it is fair and fair that every MP, today has a 30% higher salary – counting and a flat-rate wage – from the Minister in the Council of Ministers. I don't think that's fair and that we should give an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17427	Check that out, right, transparently give that data!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17428	So, of course, Mr. Belkić, I agree. I can tell you about sizes right now. The minister should have about 2,200 – 2,300, that's when they add up their former official allowance and salary, and the MP has so much plus flat-rate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17429	And they plus participation in various?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17430	If they participate in commissions, therefore, and that's the thing that needs to be made public, please be nice, to say it publicly. I speak of the matter. Please wait for a little while while I finish. I speak of what comes on a regular basis every month. The Commission and the rest, let it be said, let this area be settled, I have nothing against it and let the public be presented. 46 I call, therefore... to bear in mind measures, to take particular account of members of police agencies and the military at the state level, because these 20% increase to 130% increase must also be reconsidered and I will no longer. I got up, first of all, to say one other thing about the principle of the law that needs to be taken into account in the second reading, in the amendment phase. This law also included institutions that, in my opinion, cannot be included. He included judicial institutions at the state level and included some agencies such as the Regulatory Agency for Communications, and all of them, because of the principle of independence and independence in work, cannot be subject to this law and they have special laws. Please, listen to me! I've listened to you twice as long as I was obliged.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17431	But you promised you'd be brief.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17432	Here, I'm done. There's no 10 minutes. Take my time, please! The courts are with us, their salaries at the state level are governed by a special law that we have passed. Entities have passed their laws on salaries in courts and these laws follow each other and they are harmonised among themselves. We, if we go into the system now and we get the state justice into this law, we're going to hurt the principle of judicial independence, and we don't need to do it by this law. And, secondly, it will be an initial step in bringing down the achieved level of justice reform in BiH. I can talk about it for a long and long time, but because of the weather and the promise that I won't go too far, I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17433	Thank you very much. Replica: Mr. Novaković. Have Mr. Lijanović prepare for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17434	I would actually like to ask Mr Džaferović: What is the independence of the Regulatory Agency for Communications compared to the independence of the judiciary? So what makes this agency different than some other agencies that it would be more independent through a coefficient or through a salary than other agencies should be? You know, I'm setting it up because I don't think I've heard any more demagogue discussion than the one I've just heard.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17435	Dear Ambassador Džaferović: a response to...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17436	I, of course, will not qualify these discussions... which Novaković is talking about, is a matter of general culture. I, whether I am a demagogue or not, have shown in the past term exactly 47 and have not spoken about it at all, Mr. Novaković, and by this we measure who is a demagogue and who is not a demagogue. So you know that. And when it comes to the independence of institutions and these Regulatory agencies, I call on you to read everything, as modernly said today, relevant international conventions and European conventions on the electronic media regulator, his position in societies in democratic societies, and then you will find an answer to the question you are looking for.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17437	Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17438	Well, even though I haven't, I'm going to use this line right, what Mr. Džaferović said, since I won't discuss it because we planned it in the second reading. And I won't repeat what Mr. Novaković said, it's a demagogy. Let him interpret it every way he does, but we had a story here today, and we're saying that for the first time, people have done something systemically. Here, this parliament hasn't done it yet. We had a chance to do that. And, look, the highlight of hypocrisy today is that everyone, what suits him, is pulling out one segment and there is apparently no responsibility for Parliament to see it, to solve this systemic issue. It is Parliament's responsibility and it carries with it all its burden. And, look, the political party, here's what Mr. Džaferović was talking about, she's setting up a mayor who has, like, 7,000 marks of salary, and it doesn't matter, but when, but he's not under media attention, nobody listens down there, doesn't look, doesn't see, but here, there's a problem. Why am I talking? Please, please, when I speak and the SNSD, otherwise, anything you don't do systemically in the amendments, means we won't, just work to dispute the amendments, but everyone who isn't systematically set up to have the party the biggest participate in setting up a public director who has 10,000 marks like that we won't, it doesn't matter, it's not a problem, but you know, we're going to go here to, a colleague Džaferović says, it's a mistake Parliament has done it to itself. And we can talk about it. So Parliament must not have independence. Everyone can, but everyone else can be independent of this parliament, and it is reportedly the highest legislative authority in the country and everyone else can make their own decisions, not only this parliament can. He's not about himself or anyone else. About who? Then who's the government in the state? Who's the government in the country if it's not us? Who dares more? Mr. Džaferović, you have said the highest legislative House so many times in the Constitutional Law. That's not true. One of the lower homes! One of the lower homes! The conditions for working in this parliament are one 17 times worse than the work of the RS Assembly, let me tell you right now. Here is Mr. Kadrić, who was there, to state the conditions for the work of parliamentarians in the RS, what are they like here, if we talk about it! And then we'll talk systemically. A short time ago, Mr Izetbegović spoke of a BiH and Croatian parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17439	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17440	I'm sorry. But you did not say what the parliamentarian in Croatia included in his operation and everything that goes with it. So we have to systematically look at things and whoever has the amendments, 48 SNSD will seriously consider them, to the extent that they systematically solve things in the country. And I fully accept that someone has a different system than the Council of Ministers. It's a complete, but system. But to take out one thing, not to commend the effort that people first sat down and this problem, which is a problem in all countries, they sort of solved and had the achievements they had. And we're acting in a way: no one wants to take responsibility, but we practice ourselves in every way in front of the media. The SNSD is ready to take responsibility for this system law and is ready to participate in it, with all its good and bad sides, because I don't think the Council of Ministers thinks it's absolutely all settled because it wouldn't form a commission that will look at the scope of this law after six months and eventually try to correct the matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17441	Time! Dear Member Marković: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17442	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really thought I'd refrain from the discussion, from the replica, and I won't ask for time to discuss it, but I want to say that today here in this House, fellow MPs have shown the peak of hypocrisy and demagogy. Here, I'm saying it openly and publicly now. Unfortunately, both from the party that is the ruling party and which is participating both the current assembly majority and the Council of Ministers. Why do I say that? Because they respect themselves very openly and directly here, and I have no objection to that, certain contributions from the MPs, and you will not say how much each of these MPs bear responsibility and how much credibility he has, how many voters are behind the people sitting here in this House and who are responsible for it. Do you think that there is a greater right to one of the municipality's chiefs, chosen by 16 committee members and paid by him of 3.5 thousand marks, with only a team of 16 committee members who make up the congregation majority? Don't, I don't think that's correct and it's not right on your part. I'm not saying that in the second reading, you don't need to fix the amendments, correct some things, but to discuss here and comment so that everything is on the back of a pre-election campaign and on the background of someone hitting on the voters and asking you whether, when you get those salaries, you're going to say, "well, I'm not going to take a parliamentary shower right now, I just want a paycheck." I don't think any of you who discuss it like that today will do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17443	Only – can, can, can, is not a problem – only in order. Dear Ambassador Džaferović has a replica of these. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17444	My colleagues, so... Six thousand is a lot, so I'm telling you, now it's a projection, so they see it, I'm telling you about what the public is looking at. The public is looking at paper. The bill of law stands here. The public knows what the basis is and I'm just telling you it's a matter of measure. I say, 6 grand is a lot, so that's 6 grand with a pausal MP. And I demagogue! Please nice, don't, don't, answer that question. I'm not asking, I don't need any points. I'm not talking about how 49 I acted in my last term. There's a whole story about it. I beg you, I support this law and I think it's okay that the Council of Ministers has entered the stage that this is regulated by law but, I say, people, ratios, the ratio is at stake. Where's the measure?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17445	Just a little bit, because honourable MP Izetbegović has a replica, but I warned, when I came out for a pay phone, MPs among themselves are not good for this parliament, Parliament's dignity, to replicate and to give replicas. Maybe you'd better tell everyone who's in the law what... money is, so let's compare it. I'll also tell you how much the hospital director can pay himself through the Management Board.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17446	So, let me remind you. I said I welcome the content of the law. I said there couldn't be lower wages on state level than on entities, cantons, etc. That there's going to be a detour. I said five years have passed since the last salary hike, that it's time to increase, but that's what needs to be done with the measure. And to say that we're afraid that the clerks will leave us, that we don't have enough, that we're destimulating, then raise 10% to them, and to themselves 110%! It's demagogy, not what we're talking about today. Here's me eight witnesses that I talked like this two months ago, when I first saw this law, that this didn't come from a public campaign, is this attitude. And I'm not gonna take this kind of pay, so you know. If she goes through like this, she'll go part for humanitarian purposes. The only man who did this is sitting here in this club, in the last term, who did so. He's got a right to talk like that, you know. Because every month, 1,000 or 1,500 marks were received less than the others. And that's how he bought himself the right to discuss it today.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17447	Wait a minute, wait a minute. We have a few more replicas now, and then we have a few more discussions, and that'll be over by lunchtime. Dear Ambassador Kalabić, please take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17448	I wasn't when Mr. Belkić spoke, but I absolutely support what he said, and I'm ready for all the receipts to be public. So, all the receipts. That, if you think you're going to spread the story that someone's only getting paid, that the rest doesn't count, what someone doesn't see, let it go. And that's what people know, if that's what you're gonna do. What Mr. Izetbegović says, in the Council of Ministers, is not so spoken. This isn't the decision of this House, gentlemen. This is the decision of the Council of Ministers who came to us and who, if I know correctly, unanimously adopted this proposal. She unanimously adopted this proposal. Don't give me that demagogue any more that we have in front of the cameras, and we don't have that in any other place. That's what I'm talking about, that's what I'm talking about. You have a chance, you have your ministers, you have all those who decide, so they decide. Look, you're telling me that I'm gonna make some kind of 50 decisions, and whoever made the decision, which is a member of your party, which is the minister, you probably didn't tell him anything. Well, I didn't hear that. I heard it the first time today.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17449	Wait a minute, don't throw it away, we'll take a break if this debate goes wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17450	Two, that's what I was talking about system solutions. What his colleague Džaferović is saying is quite acceptable to him that part of the judges and part of the prosecutors can determine their own incomes that we do not know what they are and who he defends to be responsible for and that no one can, fall to them by heart, they are the ones they cannot touch and they can have what they have. I don't argue that people should have good wages but the rest will. When I spoke to Mr. Džaferović, so sit down, offer us a system-based bill as you see the relationship between the Presidency, Parliament's relationship, the relationship of judges, the relationship of prosecutors and order. The problem is, as you say, it's a problem of measure. The mayor's problem and everything, let's see. Well, then there won't be demagogy. We're going to put everything on the table, sort it out, so we're going to see what, about it, there's no difference between us that I'm part of saying that you're wrong when you segmentally pull it out. It's segmentary, but the problem is that you're running away from a system solution. So far it's been anarchy, if you're going to bring this down, we're going to have a further anarchy and we're going to have everything we're talking about. We'll still have all this stuff we didn't fight. Political parties in this country create life at both local and national level, and we should not run from it. If we're responsible, we're responsible for everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17451	Thank you. Next, in a row like this. So, honourable Ambassador Lijanović, then Lagumdžija, then Huskić, then Lozančić, then Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17452	Dear President, colleagues, fellow representatives, distinguished guests, we in the People's Party Work for the better have analyzed this law and essentially received two news. One happy and one sad. She's happy to have this regulated by law, and it's good to be transparent, to be available, and sad is the way it's regulated. We forgot the basic thing. In fact, the promoter forgot the basic thing, and that's the effect. Why is he paying? It's a key that, in my opinion, should be in this law. Is that pay earned or is that pay not earned? The ruling six apparently fell into the trap of a former state proverb, which was often used: You can't pay us as little as we can. And we objectively have a situation that we don't have results in this home, and objectively these salaries aren't something spectacular. I will act on this law with amendments. In addition to the objections we received from OHR and from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, union objections, the Office for indirect 51 taxation, police agencies, all of this should be taken into account, so we need to work out the effects. An agreement by the ruling six-year-old and three months ago, item (10), says: We will reduce the external trade deficit. After a year and three months...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17453	Get out of the picture. Please, we're talking about wages and fees.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17454	But that's the problem. So this is the key that needs to be connected to pay and compensation.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17455	It's just CEFTA's place to put it and...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17456	Eh, let's just make the formula and say, if the deficit decreases 1%, let the salary rise 5%. And then it's a real formula and let MPs charge 10,000 marks, I'll go public to defend a salary of 10,000 marks, if it's achieved on the formula of results. And this deficit grew last year by 2 billion marks, and we lost 2 billion marks, removed from our country's citizens' pockets, out of our country's citizens' pockets, and now we're probleming whether the salaries will be, I don't know, a million marks in some total figures more or less. And I would suggest that the other colleagues think about this a little bit. So, to tie these salaries to the effect and, if they're earned, it doesn't matter what they're going to be much bigger than they are now. And to bind to the external trade deficit, to bind to the unemployment rate, to bind here they are already bound to wages but there will be no greater shift as things now stand. I will propose the same in this law that in the next one, the representatives of this parliament are fined with one 50% for work last year, because I don't think that the work was justified in accordance with the agreement. But I will also advocate that a much higher salary is made through the possibility of making a profit in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17457	Thank you. Dear Member Ajanović: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17458	I have to say I'm not a professional MP, I earn a salary where I make money, but with such discussions demagogue as Mr. Lijanović is coming out, I can't stop it. It's not like these MPs are the result of their unhappiness. The unhappiness of this MP is the BiH Constitution that led to them not being able to work. And you need to take it once with you as an MP and everyone else. And don't call on it and buy into certain tricks of journalistism, I don't know whose other, 52 MPs don't work, and basically the whole non-work of MPs is a radical BiH Constitution. And as long as he doesn't get rid of it, that question can't be solved. Now let me tell you. I've been in various systems an MP. I had a doctor's salary of 50 grand, and I had an allowance of 60 grand. I had three thousand marks of salary at Marković's, and as a doctor, I could only make 1 thousand marks. And no more demagogy. People who are directly elected, and these are MPs and the Presidency, they must have the highest salary in this country. Whether or not someone liked it, and that salary should be fixed before the election, so that everyone can run to get that salary when they are elected to the Presidency and to Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17459	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jukić. Replic, incorrect quote?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17460	Well, that's an incorrect quote. It is not my practice to correct the incorrect allegations, but Mr. Jerko Ivanković Lijanović has indeed said an incorrect allegation. I'm not the Council of Ministers' lawyer, the legislator of this law, but I have to say what the fact is. So, among the important principles, if they are sorted by importance, then the second place is rewarding according to the results of the work. So, the Council of Ministers, the legislator of this law, introduces this principle and affirms it as a principle that is very important and important through this law. Not to read further, according to this principle, BiH institutions' managers, are based on objective impact measurement criteria that are determined by... acts etc. He'll make pay adjustments.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17461	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Alajbegović for Lijanović, is he?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17462	I wanted to ask Mr Lijanović to start, before we adopt the code, to act in accordance with the code, which is not to offend MPs and MPs. He said that we were actually not happy. I really ask Mr Lijanović to in some way have a distinction between the worklessness and the effects of this Parliament, because there is one huge discrepancy between what people do and what they bring here with concrete legal solutions. I don't want to give you any lectures or, I don't know, sermons, or... any objections with a negative sign, but I'm asking you nicely, in a way, that there are these proverbs, with which we are so richly, in some way,...educed, you begin to apply ourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17463	Dear Ambassador Lijanović: a response to these replicas. Here you go. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17464	Here, I thank you for your advice. I'll take as much of them as possible. I just want to make it clear. The programme objectives of the ruling six-point (3), which is before the external trade deficit for seven priorities: to adopt constitutional solutions that will establish a functional and modern BiH with European standards. So there is no obstacle that most of this House and the parliamentary majority of the ruling six will bring a constitution like that to all of us and to realize it. So it's not an obstacle to the Constitution, that we have better results. And I don't think that we should waste time on this because all citizens know that we have in the EU and the Kingdom and the Republic and the Federation and the EU with 27 individual entities or countries that function successfully and their citizens have good salaries and it works all the way. When I talked about the impact, I meant the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. So this law doesn't define our effect. There's no defined reward for the result that we achieve and I think that's what needs to be defined. And I wasn't talking about high wages. I'm in favour of a well-paid job but the one that's really done, actually the results we get from it. The Parliamentary Assembly means it has enough power to arrange every part of our lives in this country. So, from making a constitution to any law. And I'm calling for everything to do, to do it and to charge it well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17465	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija, so Nanić, Lozančić, Kadrić, Zorić, Halilović and I have no more applications. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17466	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I know a number of yet unreported replicas are coming from this. What they say is, two have already been reported to me. Logically, someone else is wondering, it will be. We've heard a lot about the law today and something about the law. I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for the opening remarks. I must admit that sometimes it's a surprise here to see the opening remarks from the Council of Ministers, so here's how much I really need to thank you for getting them. Unfortunately, I didn't get answers to all the questions but, as they say, every beginning is difficult. I know I'll be charged with cheap political points, government weakness, hypocrisy, demagogy, etc. I have to admit that you're well aware of the facts of what's coming now, and I prefer to, and I believe that when you think about it, you'll conclude that we're better off, that we're being accused of such a thing, that we're not being accused by the people who chose us. I'd better have each other, better to get one of you on the charge than to get a reparation from the people who chose any one of us. 54 From the opening remarks of the chairman, or the chair of the finance minister, we have heard that, and we know that from before, but it is good that he reminded us, I think that in this and the explanation of the document it could be seen, because I and the explanation and I treat the law as something the finance minister himself has said to us, however, and no matter what it may be he did not point to in the opening statement itself. At the end of last year, we had 23,410 employees. And at the end of this year, we were scheduled to have 22,375 employees. It's a budget projection, and it's given in an explanation, and it's good that it's given. The explanation is, I mean, quite high-quality in that segment, which means we're going to have practically 5% less people on budget salaries. And then, turn, turn, here it says that the salary will increase on average by 13%, or 55 million marks. So this law weighs on the new 55 million marks compared to not having it. And I belong to those who think it's better to have this dealt with by good law than this way. But I think it's better to have this thing like this than to have a bad law solved. And what's in front of us is bad law. And that's why it's better to stay like this than to be dealt with by bad law. That's what I'm going to explain. I am sorry that Mr. Chairman, too, for not knowing the public about the letter we received together from the OHR and the European Commission, the World Bank and the European Police Mission. Some will wonder what the police are seeing, do they see that something here is colorful? It's not because of the inconsistency with some laws that we're having a debate about these days. Namely, I think it's good for the public to know, we are this letter, it says, I quote: Congratulations to the state authorities on the efforts they have made in making uniform, comprehensive, fair criteria for rewarding public sector employees (point). Well, at least you could have read it. And that's all there is to congratulating. Then he says: However, and then behind, these people write round and round with their feet, they say: However, the bill can be improved in several ways to ensure, etc. In principle, they have several big remarks, thanks to which in the end, they say, is whether: We thank you for the attention and co-operation on this issue and we are at your disposal in the event of further discussion. In other words, people have been very cultural with precise remarks as to why they think this cannot be accepted in this form, and so the public knows what it is. And you don't need to be the EU and the World Bank to figure it out. Namely, we have a few things here. First, the World Bank warns us that the base is 550 marks and that following that logic, and the basics of 550 marks, that we are coming here to increase, the president of the SDA Club mentioned some figures, they are even worse for us, we have heard here how many, is the basis of the pay MP. The MP will have an increase in this by 133%. It's going to be with these cobwebs, a warm meal, if I'm not mistaken and past work, not entering those who have separate lives and so on, so for someone who's 550 meters from here, it's going to mean over 7,000 marks, someone said almost eight. I say, here, over seven. It doesn't change things, from the point of view of principle, whether it's over 7 or almost 8 thousand marks, so pay, cobwebs, usual past work and a warm meal. So over 7,000! The World Bank here makes arguments as if they were expecting these discussions. People are fine to say why, that nowhere in the world budget employees have no salary as in the private sector. They even give very, so I say for two reasons. First, because everywhere in the developed world, people go to business 55 from the state administration because they want to get rich, and they don't come to the state administration to get rich.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17467	No throwing, please. Everyone has the right to report for the replica and for the discussion, allow everyone to express their opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17468	Another thing why people here tell us that the most developed countries can't afford to pay themselves in the public sector as in the private sector, and we can. They are making very specific remarks here, saying that this, the Council of Ministers is calling, that a wide range of different fees, the salary gives the Council of Ministers the opportunity to adapt variations to pay-based competitiveness, given the differences in interest, as suggested by the Council of Ministers. There's almost total discretion in joining each of these fees. Based on experiences from several countries, it can be concluded that this will create a serious risk, almost a guarantee that the resulting wage structure will be in practice non-transparent, random and in other ways problematic. So here's the talk of additional donations that haven't been solved, etc. Let them go for a moment, though I do, given how much you are in the debate on police reform, your main argument was what the EU says. Here says the EU, OHR, the World Bank and the European Police - that this is not good. Well, that's enough reason, following that logic, to get this back. But we don't need the EU and the World Bank for this. So, I very clearly want to say that these aren't even cheap points that come together here, these are very expensive points, which these laws try to provide. So I ask whether the law should not, the answer is like this – you don't have to. Given the comparison, I think a good comparison is given, as in the environment, given the salary. In Croatia, four times the salary, five times the average in Slovenia. It won't be 6 but 7.2 times bigger than the average, 7.2. Following that logic, Croatia is four times the candidate country. We are, in fact, coming to us, Slovenia is an EU member country, has five times the size and, since we have seven times the size, then we are a great candidate country and a great member. No, because I agree with all those who say we should tie this to the results of work and responsibility. Judging by the fact that this police law hangs, not in Parliament, but between a few people here, it turns out that they should be given this salary for responsibility, because they are, the only few are responsible for this. This is where Parliament is blocked in decision-making until they agree. But I agree with everyone, you suggest on the background of the discussions that were to tie this to the results of the work, not to work, but to the results of the work, I agree. I suggest a conclusion that will send a clear message to everyone, to the whole public, so at least they'll have a little more understanding of us. I will use Article 150(2), which under b) says that Parliament can make decisions as an 'act which addresses matters of the jurisdiction of the Parliamentary Assembly' or of the position d) which says that 'the conclusion is an act on issues relating to the procedure in the individual matter'. I propose the following decision, i.e. the conclusion: 56 On the occasion of the Bill on Payments and Compensation of Employees in BiH institutions, the House of Representatives decides that the debate and the activities of the adoption of the Law on Obligations and Rights of Members of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH – this is, you know, the law that is not yet on the agenda, which is being signed by the 21 MPs, so immediately speaking of this, by refusing this and returning to work with the World Bank, the EU and everyone, to send a message immediately for something about this, which is the law that makes people spit on us all. And this is, therefore, to make a decision, I repeat: that discussions and activities at the adoption of the Law on Obligations and Rights of Members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly will not be led until BiH is granted EU candidate status or BiH's new constitution is adopted. It's a very simple decision, a very simple conclusion that will show that we want to tie our work to our own. [[Common discussion]] Let's vote for this when the agenda comes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17470	Please, just a minute, just a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17471	And I'm going to suggest the conclusion of the kind that we're going to vote for.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17472	Wait a minute. The debate is over.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17473	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17474	Is the debate over? It's not?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17475	Am I done, am I?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17476	I ask, have you finished the debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17477	Now, Mr. Živković, I think there are already enough candidates to hold a break until the next discussion is quite long.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17478	Thank you. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17479	The word has a esteemed president, the esteemed Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17480	Yes, the correction of the false assumption. Since you simply can't go out after the introduction of a series of false claims, which is common to Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, you don't say after that. So the replica is given on an unseen basis for the simple reason that each time it is misrepresented and deliberately cite incorrect actions. First of all, you got a letter from the OHR. It is stated to whom it was sent: members of the Commission for Finance and Budget of the House of People, the House of Representatives, the College of the House of Representatives, the House of Peoples, the chair of the Members of the House of Representatives, the chair of the clubs of the House of Peoples. We're all in clubs and you've all had it. Mr. Lagumdžija, everyone in this House. On the other hand, you weren't there when Mr. Nović explained the law before that and that practice you're saying wasn't there! It was a part of the agenda before that, but, of course, you weren't there because you didn't care! You came here to make a play in front of the cameras about this law. And that is the attitude towards this Parliament and these MPs that you show on a daily basis. The agenda point is not the law in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly institutions, but the law on BiH institutions, all institutions. When citing your relationship with your fellow Members, state the relationship with other institutions as well. This is a disgrace to this House. Killing the possibility that this parliament's next election, whenever they are, will be a better parliament, for better people to sit here and make better decisions, then to see who here so-called. It works, and who here, so-called. It's not working. I will sign, if you are ready, that I may no longer be on the lists of any Parliament because of this relationship between you and everyone else in this country to this Parliament. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bahtić, then Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17481	I thank.../a brief interruption/... to bear everything, not to listen, I cannot be angry, and that someone is reading us a moral lesson, especially when it comes to Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. I really don't understand that. We know it's the biggest parasite in this country that ever...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17482	Please, after these discussions, and which I have had, treat the MPs, no matter what, with all due respect, please! Please!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17483	He already said he'd expect it in advance? Political demagogue, hypocrite, etc., did not count further! I responsibly argue, I live in a market economy where only labour is valued, labour results, 58 responsibly claimed that the highest wage, income, will have precisely those who do nothing, and... effect, and that is Zlatko Lagumdžija. That man doesn't do anything here. He's the most expensive MP in this House. He's never on the committee, he comes here, he just parades. This is a classic political demagogy and needs the public and voters to hear our judgment. Our work will only be given by voters. And they give it to every election. If we are not good, if this is wrong, you will come to power, but you will never come to power as you do, I tell you that. The opposition as it works, you'll never come to power. I'm not insulting it, I'm just telling you... Here you see, I got one and a replica... says man: I work in production. And a professional man here in Parliament! And the only thing you see in the court of registration is that maybe Parliament has activity and production, and I don't see you, Todorović, a colleague, that you're here when you came in a working coat and a suit. You said you were busy in production. Well, you're a professional here. And you said professional, something like that. I think, my colleague Lagumdžija, that so many things you've brought out, that it's out of your mind. So tell me, these MPs, these MPs have an honest income here, and that's what they earn. He likes it, he doesn't like it. Explain to these MPs, too, where you get your fortune. Where'd you get two apartments, fairies?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17484	Please, let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17485	The fence is worth more than someone's house. Well, he was reading us all a moral lesson, so I could read to him. It's a classic demagogy. Demagogy is that I take from the state 100,000 marks of taxpayers, a interest-free loan. By law, public companies can't share credit, and he took it. He didn't come back. Demagogy is that I sell 350 million gold for 50 million. It's damaged the country. Demagogy is that he as a man of the party took all the assets of the former Yugoslavia and the Alliance of Communists and now collects incomes and leases and now travels through London on the basis of these pairs.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17486	Don't win, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17487	It's all demagogy and it's that...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17488	Is he okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17489	It's not okay. Hold on a second.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17490	Okay. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17491	Demagogy is that he's a colleague of Lagumdžija, you know, and that he's a private firm on his wife. What money did they raise, it has the exact data of both Telecom and Post Office and Post Office Bank. It's millions of dollars, it's millions of dollars! And it spills our demagogue here, buys us real estate and crafts and bars and everything. Now, that's what the people and the public need to know, and such a demagogue can't read us a moral lesson here. I respect my colleagues from the SDP, and there are even honest people here. A kolega Lagumdžija, your morality, your wealth, your demagogue, it's the citizens, it's nice to recognize and recognize each election you get 50,000 votes down there, and I, thank Bog, each election five to ten thousand up there. Thank you, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17492	You, Mr. Bahtić, have now used your right to two replicas. Let's move on to the replicas. Dear Ambassador Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17493	I thought you'd give me your word at first. I asked if I could. I was going to ask my colleagues not to rephrase to Lagumdžjiji, because we're going to give him one more time to answer those lines. So what to say about a man who either comes to the sessions when he wills him, who 90% (road) did not listen to an anthem at the beginning of the session, because he does other jobs. He came right to this point. And he'll probably go after her and maybe come to the vote. Maybe, I say. He'll see if he finds it interesting. I will avoid... replication, so that my colleague Bećirović will not throw me as Bahtić threw away.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17494	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija. Probably the answer to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17495	No, Mr. Chairman, this is not a reply to the replicas. This is just for you, as chairman, to tell you. There's no need to say which ones are guilty, the allegations you listed as false allegations. I believe that the shame of this Parliament is already the fact that these two laws receive this kind of support in Parliament. The law sent by 21 MPs and the law sent by the Council of Ministers, the fact that these laws are still alive in this parliament, is a disgrace to this parliament. And if you think that the shame I'm talking about is that these laws are a disgrace to this House, then I accept, here I am ready before you, to accept your accusation of disgrace. I'm very proud of the fact that I'm talking about this this way and if you're proud of what you're doing right now, I'm just wondering what a shame it is. And finally, I, Mr. Chairman, thought that you were the man who, however, as you have tried in many cases so far, to protect the function that you are acting, which 60 gave you, that you would try to at least be so correct as to allow the agenda to be the point of the agenda. The item of the agenda is the law on, the item of the agenda is not an MP, and especially that MP who tells you what you should be ashamed of, and what someone is ashamed of, the fool is proud. I let you keep your mouth shut while you smile slightly, listening to your colleague here primitively, recklessly insult people for talking about the law. Really, congratulations, colleague Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17496	Thank you. All this stuff you said, I don't accept, for one simple reason I'm trying to create a democratic atmosphere. Obviously, you've earned it with your performances. The following is Ambassador Bećirović: business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17497	If you hadn't said this last comment, I probably wouldn't have come forward, but since you're asking precisely to be listed when you're in violation, Mr. Chairman, you've violated a serious member of 71st and a member of 73rd. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, and you have allowed this Parliament to create one street mentality, one street vocabulary here, which is not appropriate to the local community, let alone the House of Representatives, whose head you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17498	We'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17499	And, therefore, I've made your business very clear, and I'd like to say that I'm wrong now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17500	Of course, now Parliament will say whether I'm right or wrong. I ask all MPs to approach the vote to see if I have broken the Rules of Procedure. If I break the Rules of Procedure, I'll get out of this place. I ask the MPs to prepare for the vote. Please, please, I have the right as chairman, when one of the MPs warns me that I have violated the Rules of Procedure, to put it to the vote. In case this house says I broke the Rules of Procedure, I'm out of here. Is he okay? [[Common discussion]] Please prepare to vote. Business intervention again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17502	When you want to put it to a vote, let me read you exactly what you're putting to the vote. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17503	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17504	Article 71
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17505	Please, just a minute. I'll read it to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17506	No, I want to read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17507	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17508	I answered my word. Mr. Chairman, you gave me your word. Business intervention. I want to read what business intervention is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17510	So, Article 71. You know very well that in this case I'm right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17511	Please, just read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17512	The attitude (2), therefore, quotes what I think has been broken: If he deviates from the agenda, the chairman warns him. It's obvious that...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17513	You explained your request, please sit down and it's not the other attitude, it's the second sentence.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17514	...that the gentleman, whom I don't want to mention a name, has completely strayed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17515	Please, I understand. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17516	Article 73(2) The Chair may warn a Member who, by his or her conduct or speech, does not respect the order or provisions of this Rules of Procedure during the sitting. You didn't warn him, and you often used to take away the word of some other MPs here, for significantly minor violations.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17517	Please, are you done?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17518	So here I am, clearly quoting and trying...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17519	Are you done?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17520	No, here, let me finish. Try, therefore, that you are now parliamentaryly majorityed, that she votes to you that you have not violated, etc. And despite the clear stuff, it's really degutant.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17521	Please, I hope you're done. First of all, I didn't take away the word in this House, as much as I remember it was just once. And you know who. So it wasn't often. Do not use such expressions. And in countless times I should have warned you. This time, everything has gone beyond measure and Parliament's relationship to this whole thing, and I want to put your criticism and violation of this Rules of Procedure to the vote of MPs. You can't tell me that, I'll do it. Please, honourable Ambassador Džaferović. Don't make this out of this right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17522	We're not... making any of this. Mr. Chairman, so I really don't think there's a need, but for quite another reason, you put this on the agenda. You're the chairman and you're assessing whether someone's ever come out of the agenda or not. That's your assessment and please nice, that's what the Rules of Procedure says here. No, you don't need to expose us to something that you can judge for yourself. That's your assessment. You have the authority, you're not just sitting there to sit down, but to run this session. And that's your right. And that's why I think you should, you should stop and say, in my opinion, sir, I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, so it says in the Rules of Procedure and we move on. It's a crucial matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17523	Mr. Džaferović, I understand and accept your suggestion. However, I want the House to make a statement about it. Please prepare to vote. 63 The question is, the question is, has the chairman broken the Rules of Procedure? If you vote yes, it means that I have violated the Rules of Procedure, and then you will leave me with the opportunity to determine myself accordingly. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" was not, "against" 29, "abstained" was not. I find that Dom has expressed himself to that effect. Please, there is a need for a honourable MP, another Deputy Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17524	I hope, Mr. Bećirović, that you will allow me two sentences just to say. So I am also absolutely against the street, as you say, the street language in this House and I am absolutely against jeopardizing anyone's dignity and personality here with us. However, all of us here have to keep an eye on when we speak, Mr. Lagumdžija, so talk to this parliament, and read us some paper that we've already seen and read five times, that we've done the same. So, yeah, we have a responsibility to that, too. Furthermore, when you tell us about this law that it's embarrassing, that we had to do this, that we had to do what, you know very well, Mr. Lagumdžija, that every MP, that the Council of Ministers, anyone, has the right to suggest a certain matter. That this particular thing goes into procedure, that we will plead on the commission or before that. He can't chair Parliament, when someone submits to the protocol of the law, with his conclusion he throws it out of this procedure. So don't underestimate us. And don't put us all in a position right now that we're hungry MPs who want to take the money, and you're morally vertical. When you talk like that, you have to be prepared for what happens.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17525	Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija, please. Second, this is second, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17526	First, I don't only replicate once or twice because of the Rules of Procedure, and that's enough reason, but because some people simply don't need to replicate out of elementary self-esteem. However, Mr. Belkić, you are the man who acted most in this country, the functions and you represent institutions as you are now representing an institution that I value and respect and that is why I am obliged to say a few words to you, as I am to Mr. Živković, because I am looking at the function he is acting, and I am making it clear once again. I drew attention to the finance minister who did not in his opening presentation elaborated the remarks he had from the World Bank, from the OHR, from the European Commission, the European Police Mission, and, instead of the exposure he had, he should've very much given us, and that's my view: I thought he was supposed to do it, not that I discovered hot water. So it was very clearly addressed to the minister. That's one thing. And, already, Mr. Živković turned my attention to that 64, so here, only when you've repeated it, I see it's a general place at that table, I want to make it very clear what I resented the minister for not having four such institutions, who signed very reasoned remarks, which he didn't look back on, even though he said they existed, read them, I put them with my foot. And that's enough. It was my grudge, and she's still standing, no matter what. And another thing, the word embarrassing that I used for these laws. You're right, but I repeat once again, look at the stenogram or on the internet, anyway, you see the video, I used it, that word for the first time since Mr. Chairman in his replica, what I've been saying, the facts, was called a disgrace to this Parliament. I did not introduce that word into the jargon for this item of the agenda, but I just used it in another context compared to what Mr. Chairman said. I'm still saying it's not a shame to talk about this the way I said it, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17527	The word has a respected chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17528	I want to use my second replica, too. I have spoken in general of embarrassing the work of MPs in this House, and I have not thought of anyone in particular. And on the other hand, you also talked about police reform laws, which received EU support. We have accepted that this is so and we will vote in favour of these laws, but we will also take these remarks and this law when it comes to the amendment phase, the honourable Ambassador of Lagumdžija, to consider and accept, unlike you who are stuck with both legs. Dear Ambassador Huskić, pa Lozančić, Kadrić, Zorić, Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17529	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try to be brief, appreciating our time wasted so far and keeping the agenda points, and the agenda point is: The draft law on salaries and fees in BiH institutions (first reading). So we're on principles, on first reading. And so far, this law has already passed certain stages. A request from the Council of Ministers has been accepted. The Constitutional and Legal Commission has established a constitutional legal basis. The Finance and Budget Committee unanimously adopted the principles of this law. Just to point out that some colleagues, who are fiercely attacking this law today, are also members of the Finance and Budget Commission, and here are the results in the record that it is unanimously accepted. We're talking about principles today. I will, for the sake of the public and for the stenogram, read which five principles, I think, the minister very precisely stated in his presentation. Since it was a long time ago, I'm going to read it one more time. (a) Same pay for the same or similar job, (b) Reward according to the results of work, (c) Transparency, (d) Fiscal responsibility (e) Flexible. 65 And we're talking about it today. And as far as I'm concerned, I would like to introduce the following principle, and that principle is that members of the BiH presidency should have the highest salary in this country. And that's what we need to get to the bottom of today, about having a debate and everything that's come out, in my opinion, outside of this is a clean election campaign and a completely unnecessary story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17530	Thank you. Dear MP, First Deputy Chairman, Mr. Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17531	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, here I belong to the category of those who want to, above all, congratulate the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury and the complete Council of Ministers, which finally delivered this very complex legislative project to the parliamentary procedure. If exactly what I said were true, it shows a whole series of reactions to this law from different interested entities in this country, from unions to employees in BiH institutions, to those who are not employees in these institutions but have the right, have the desire, have the need to say something about this law. It is wrong that today, by discussing the principles of this law, we have come into debate as if it were in the second reading, as if we are definitely devoting ourselves and as if we have already finished solutions. I will say, before I go any further, that the finance minister, in his opening address, could not appeal to this letter of OHR and other institutions, because it was not even addressed to him. People are quite properly informed, they are well informed that this legislative project is at this point in parliamentary procedure and they have addressed all of us in Parliament, so that we will take care of it in one way or another and commit ourselves to what they have problems with. I said in my first address on that replica one why I think this is good. It's good because finally, in this country, here's what many have already said, for 22,000 employees of budgetary users we're passing one law. I'll tell you later... about some details of that law. And I think it's a good thing that we can't judge in advance because of any discrepancies in the law, unless we have unfair intentions. Unless we want to keep the current state of anarchy in this area, unless we want 70% of the funds in this country to continue to be spent on the basis of the BiH budget, I will say, a dozen decisions by different bodies of institutions that determine their own salary. I would like this law not to determine the salaries of MPs and envoys in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. You believe me that I would then be much more critical, so to speak, of this law. I would like, even if there is a possibility, to think about, to exempt from this law MPs and envoys in the BiH Parliament because I wish that no one could object to what else I am going to say that here I, like myself, want some big salary. First of all, I think it is unfair for us to accuse ourselves because some coefficients here are intended for parliamentarians, because I must say, as far as I know, none of the parliamentarians have ever participated in proposing coefficients for us or for others who are concerned with this salary. And I think 66 should be said for the public. We have already come here to accuse ourselves, accuse us of the public, we accuse ourselves, and people will rightly think it's true. So, by the time this bill arrived in the parliamentary procedure, I had no idea or wanted to have any idea what was defined and how defined by this law. When I got it, I formed my position on it, so I'll share it with you here. There are objections from international organisations that I, and members of the College, have had opportunities to hear... from some of them when it comes to whether it is good for this law to define and pay the holders of the highest judicial functions in BiH. I must say, there are divisions likely to be reflections in this House: yes and no. So far, so there's a law on judicial and prosecutorial functions that defines it... and we can leave it that way. We can exclude these bodies from this law if most of them are in the mood. In that sense, I will not at all... problem it, if that is a way to ensure absolute independence of the holders of these functions and of all those employed in that sector. We also have observations that it is not good that this law covers and certain independent regulatory bodies that exist as BiH institutions – FERK, DARK, RAK, I speak abbreviations... but here, because they are very often mentioned in our public,... you probably all know what this is about. Maybe it's a good thing we let them out of it, too, so we can shut them out of this law. If we are talking about the principle of independence that wants to be protected by excluding these institutions from this law, then I ask the question: Is Parliament an independent institution? Should the independence of Parliament and each representative, the envoys, be preserved individually? Obviously, judging by what we're discussing, we shouldn't. We need to be addicts, so that I don't talk about everything, and everything, and whom it's all about. Because the best way to achieve addiction, and that's what those from the European Commission tell us, that's what they tell us from the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, that's what they tell us from the Communications Regulatory Agency, is when you define someone's height of financial income. And then you make him independent or independent. We can abolish the salaries of all the envoys and deputies, and we have the right to do so. And then we'll probably make the biggest contribution to the full dependence of each representative on different centres of power. To make a contribution, to say it, something I said, I wouldn't like to call anyone individually, when I said demagogue is something or when some say maybe someone will say I'm a demagogue. It's a good opportunity, here's a good chance that today's debate is taking place in front of the whole Bosnian Herzegovina public. And now that I'm sitting, I have a privileged position to sit on this side and see you all well. I'm looking at this male part of the MPs: on each one of you I see a tie that's not under 100 marks. Maybe that's hypocritical, too. I know this tie costs about half my mother's pension, I know it, don't think I don't know. So my mother's retired and my tie costs like half her pension. I won't ask you how much your suits cost, how much your shirts cost you, how much are your shoes you wear, and I won't ask you how many of them you have. So, here, think about it. I want to be honest and honest and do this job like I tried to do honestly and honestly all the other jobs I've done. I don't want someone to put me in a position like this in simple mathematics so I can't count. I can very easily calculate, if this proposal remains, what will be my salary, after the adoption of this law. It's very simple. But with that salary, it's very hard to calculate how I'm going to make sure that every day I come to this Parliament to be this neat, I hope I'm neat, and I'm trim and 67 shaved, and decently dressed, because that's what I'm expected to do. Although someone will say, I like to warn, not to jump out of the agenda, but the topics are close and it's good that they're both on the agenda today. Today, at one of the previous points, we discussed the Law of Conflict of Interest, so look, and in this law what is permitted to elected representatives, officials, or what is not allowed to them. And I will say very simply: we in this House are not allowed to do anything but here. That's a good thing. The purpose of the legislation is to motivate elected officials to commit themselves exclusively to the work for which they have been elected. Not to humiliate them, not to degrade them, but to motivate them to commit themselves exclusively to the work we've been chosen to do. And I don't want to accept the different flossules by which this body is here, I don't know either, here's not to use any ugly words, the most meaningless body in BiH and in the environment. Someone said well today... and these are principles and these are principles. In this country, only three people are sitting in the BiH presidency and for that position everyone can compete, all of the country's adult citizens and only three, I don't know how either, but they manage to be elected. In this country -- I do not agree with that, but it is likely that when we come at some point in the debate on the BiH Constitution -- we have only 57 deputies in both homes of the state parliament. Maybe someone thinks there's too many of us. I think there's a few of us. In order to enable the quality of Parliament's work, I think this house, which we are sitting in today, would have to be at least twice as big. And now someone's going to say -- here it is, with all the costs that these 42 are costing us, now he's going to increase that, too! I'll agree with all those who said it wasn't a problem, and I think it's not a problem how much the elected official's salary is, but the problem he's really trying to do right, I won't tell them to make money, because it's guaranteed for those who don't come to any session of this house and for those who, when it comes to them, come, and when they do, they don't come, they're guaranteed, so I won't say anything but do what's prescribed. And, I said, I would like, if possible, to have someone else determine the level of receiving counsel in this house and say some sort of assessment. Whatever she is, I'll take her. So how much is it estimated that the work of the MPs in this home, i.e. the work and position and function of the representatives in this home, is worth. In what way do we even intend to motivate someone that after some other choices, because here we behave when this law applies only to us here, for, by name, to Nik Lozančić or Zlatko Lagumdžija. No, he's worth every MP today and tomorrow until that law changes. So that, in my opinion, is a contribution to strengthening the integrity of these institutions. And, in order for you to not get me wrong again, I do not appeal that these coefficients of MPs, members of the Bureau, members of the Council of Ministers, remain at this level at which they are proposed. I appeal to be seen, although I know, what are the problems of it, how to increase those coefficients concerning the police, concerning the military. I think those coefficients are real low, and if we all give up the pay, if that's the way, I don't think those coefficients can get much higher. That's the problem. So, let's see if there's any other mechanism, which is the mechanism? I am about to think about it, so I'm going to define myself about it, when there's an amendment phase, in which way I see that I should be aware of it in some contexts when we're at issue, first of all, but also in the way I think it should be defined when it comes to raising the coefficients of those duties that are at that initial coefficient. Let's see what the modeality is, and I will certainly support all those who help us come to a solution, to create a fair, quality legal project that will make the largest number of citizens of this country, and those concerned, happy and will ensure full transparency in the spending of budgets but also enable the effective functioning of the BiH institutions system. Thank you very much. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17532	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17533	I thank you, Chairman. I'm really going to comment on some things for a little while. So here we are talking about a bill of wages. Based on that, I'll just mention three things. When it comes to the first thing, we're talking about, so demagogues and principles, so I'm going to point out one, maybe one special kind of double demagogy. I'm talking about it because we're probably going to enter, in the next period, into this demagogue story, so let me just point out that there's this kind of double demagogy and it's looking at itself in the next one. Indeed, it is a double demagogy if someone here is publicly, transparently speaking about another, how the other is modest, honest, fair, and then people, of course, need to draw the conclusion that he is modest and he who speaks and is modest is the one and the one he talks about, so people need to draw the conclusion that there is no telling who is more modest, who is more honest, who is more righteous. So this is about one special type of double demagogy. When it comes to the other thing, which I would like to mention, on the trail of what Lozančić and Džaferović were saying, therefore, they need to consider once more the possibility, indeed, that the judiciary should be exempt from this law, given that entity justice is regulated by a special law and there has been a general discrepancies here. Therefore, the BiH judiciary should be... regulated to find some possibility for the judiciary to be exempt from this law, given that there is already a law... from that area. And the third thing I want to mention, and that's... The Secretariat of Parliament's Professional Service, to see the possibility, because it really needs the public to know that these professional services in Parliament that serve this Parliament are extremely poorly paid and, therefore, it is necessary to see the possibility of these professional services, which serve us, to see in that part the possibility of their special compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17534	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17535	I welcome all my fellow MPs and MPs, and I will try to be as brief as possible. So, the name of the party I belong to, on behalf of the HDZ 1990, I would like to begin by saying that we support the principles of this law because what else to do if I am the president of the Representatives' Club in last September 30th, it seems to me that if... the date, September 30th 2004, I have proposed to this same home a conclusion and that home has accepted that conclusion to adopt the law on salaries in the 69 BiH institutions. This is the systematic arrangement of this matter, everything else would be anarchy and from the debate of all MPs you can see who's for some entropy, and who's not for in this country and I'm asking all of us here: are we for normal BiH arrangement? If we are, this kind of system law is one of the conditions for such a normal country. The Law Working Group has made a good bill and I congratulate, especially the Head of the Working Group, Mr Šakota, but also the entire Ministry of Finance headed by Mr Dragan Vrankić, and I must here, the public working and for the sake of the truth, correct my colleague Lozančić: he was a representative of the Parliamentary Assembly in the working group and he participated in the work of the working group. Some debates, and I don't want to pay much attention to that, have brought me back or tried to bring me back to a time when it was said that Communism and wheat would be free of charge. So, I reject that time, and as I once said in this House, I reject that time as far away as possible. My colleague Ekrem Ajanović brought out here, for the first time, that I heard of the wages and receipts in that system, when I, as a professor of mathematics and physics, had to also read tobacco but I shouldn't have asked how much they were... paying MPs. Now every piece of shit on the street is talking about our salaries. And that's good, we wanted democracy, here it is, and I'm for transparency. But where you're going to be more transparent, some of them have been saying there's no transparency here than Article 7. If someone wanted there to be no transparency and no idea how much would be paid to representatives and others in BiH's institutions, Article 7 could have had one sentence, rather than half a page. It could be said, and Article 7 treats the basis, it could only be said that the basis would be established by the Council of Ministers and no one would know how much it is. It's written here how much it is. That's 85%. If anyone has an objection to 85%, it's an amendment. I,... I'll probably have some amendments and I'm willing to submit amendments to all those for which I estimate that realistically, they have no real objections, and they're not agents, so for all those institutions or trade unions, I'm willing to submit amendments, but if I consider it normal. Lozančić noted nicely that MPs and ministers do not have any salary for the population, which is a lot in this budget, so it would be very little, whether 1% of them reflect pay or not, and in this direction is mine and the remark on some who spoke about the increase in wages in some of 10% or 20%, and in some 100%. I wouldn't calculate it until we got new salaries. So when we get new salaries, we'll know how much that was an increase. Also, I want to say something about independence. It was said here that this law should not be treated by the judge and the Regulatory Agency. Well, let's just say that I would agree that judges, prosecutors and everyone else in that area should not be treated by this law. What about the employees of those institutions? In my opinion, greater immunity has a cleaning woman who works in court than a representative at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Even tried to legalize it with some laws. And in some agencies, it has even been suggested that all employees in that agency have immunity. Remember in the last session that we had such a law on benches where it was proposed that employees of an agency had immunity, and that was total immunity. And we here in the Parliamentary Assembly have immunity that, at that time, fellow Špirić, in the last meeting, said that we could break up the ashtray freely in this House, by accident, by accident, not deliberately, what we came across, we pushed her, we didn't want to, and we have, we're protected, we won't answer from it. I've been in this House for the last 10 years, except for that black hole from 2000 to 2002, I wasn't then. And I have to tell you that in that black hole, if under the alleged signs of 70, these privileges are the most adopted in this Parliamentary Assembly. Compare '98. By 2000, compare 2000 to 2002 and all of this, so you will see when the greatest privileges are adopted, if these are privileges. I don't think so, but those who here are loudly saying that the salaries, the breaks, don't give Bog, whether or not to charge the living room if you're going on the road. If these are privileges, then we should say when it was most adopted and introduced into... this practice of parliamentary life. In the end, I repeat again, without a reservation, in the name of the party, I say that we support the principles of this law and in the amendment phase, so in the phase of reforming the law, we will participate as much as necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17536	I thank you, too. The word has a respected representative, Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17537	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, whatever I would now try to say to be critical, of course, I will be immediately declared... that it is cheap political demagogy, that it is picking up cheap political points etc. So I'm gonna refrain from some of the comments that I thought I'd... say. But, by analyzing, by reading the law, I've noticed a few things I'd like to... add, with a few words. First, I think the salary increase has already created a very negative effect in the public and, to be honest, to this salary increase, which we are now talking about, we are here, as MPs in the state parliament, from the media declared... criminals and the most paid non-employees in BiH. So, with this, with these salaries, which we have so far, we have been declared the greatest criminals and the largest non-workers in BiH. Secondly, I think that... just raising or dropping wages won't solve the problem, neither will it increase or reduce the efficiency of this parliament, because my orientation for this is: my salary has been increased to judges and prosecutors, and in the end we have, are we sure that, after that increase of salaries to judges and prosecutors, we have won the fight against crime or we have lost! I think we lost, and with that salary increase, the judges and the prosecutors, we basically didn't get anything. We got what it was or maybe even worse. What, what I wanted to say today – the other day I read in one daily list, on the cover were photographs of all MPs and the red were marked by the ruling coalition, the green opposition,... underneath those red ones wrote these are for, for such high wages, and for those of the opposition they wrote: they have nothing against – I want to say very precisely that I think that I think the legislator, and we as MPs have the opportunity to act as amendment, we need, and I will act in this direction and I will act as an amendment to act, however... these coefficients are smaller for, above all, MPs in the state parliament and for some other categories, and to be bigger for the police and for the military. I used to be a soldier, I have to tell you that it's a very difficult profession and when you calculate here what his salary is, then, it's very modest. And, if we want the police, look at the chronicles, these black chronicles, and you'll see that we die about a year like we're in some kind of a war situation, if we want 71 quality military and quality police, then these two categories I would – of course, we'll act in this direction amendment – but I'd like to ask the promoters to have that thing in mind. And, finally, every law that is passed and passed and the best, best indicator, the best example for this is law, here's to judges and prosecutors. If this law does not follow sanctions for labour, for failure to comply, for breaking codes or rules, the law will not get results. I'm here to reward us officers and soldiers and finally get safe traffic. I'm here to reward the civil servant, the civil servant, but to get a state administration that's not corrupt and that's not bribed. I am for absolutely rewarding the work but, when it comes to coefficients, I think we should still take care of those who chose us, because I feel very uncomfortable with this salary that now... I get when I come among people who ask me and what your salary is, because they, they read from the papers that we have some wages that are from: that you can buy from one salary an apartment and a car. I have to tell you at the end... that, when it comes to wages, there should be another fact here. Here, I'm gonna end up with this so I don't... take up a lot of your time. As minister of labour and social policy and displaced persons in the Federation government, I asked the question then, at the Federation Government meeting, because then the minister's salary was about 1,600 marks, with a warm meal, it was somewhere around 2,000 marks... I asked them what they were, what they were paying for, because I just happened to hear that the salaries of the directors of public enterprises were ranging from 15 to 25 thousand marks. And I think that this law should be supported, that he has the support, that the state of affairs is finally starting to edit, that these coefficients should be deployed and, when it comes to MPs, don't put us in a position, I am asking this ruling coalition this time, because there is a single folk proverb that says that you can kill... prevent,...and suicide never! If you stay at such high coefficients, you will not only commit murder... suicide but you will commit murder and us who are against it. I'm against such high coefficients and I don't think it's correct at least. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17538	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17539	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's what to say now that almost everything's been told about this law but here's a few words that once again, because of the public if anything, we know why we're sitting here today and what we're discussing at this point, it means. I wanted to give a replica to certain MPs on a few occasions for the reasons that they began to deal with themselves. We were dealing with ourselves for the reason that because of the condemnation of the public, did we come into such a situation and here, perhaps, and for an hour and a half, we only talked about the subject but we truly forgot to say that this is another law of the BiH state that did not exist and that one system in which there was chaos is being edited. And the finance minister, in his presentation... exactly, it seems to me, if everyone followed it well, and because of the public and analytically cited the sublegal act on which the salaries were paid so far, and Deputy Minister Kasumović, at 72, spoke several months ago and what it means when it comes to paying salaries in the institutions of the government. It just needs to be arranged. I want, once again, to support the position of the president of the SDA Club Mr. Bakir Izetbegović in terms of supporting this law and in terms of correction through the amendments to the coefficients we have. And what we, we never object to, once again, want to truly do is pay particular attention to the correction of the coefficients towards the Armed Forces of BiH and police officers. And I think all those who, through their discussions, ignored that factor or didn't want to accept the idea,...the corrections in that sense, should ask themselves whether they loved the state of BiH. Because if there's no Armed Forces, if there's no police officers, if, here's two days we've been running the way,...we've been talking for two days on the subject of police laws in which we want to make one police subordination from top to bottom, then also those police officers, or people who do this work, and those who stand at the border, and those who,...come in some way,...we, perhaps through these amendments, fix the situation. It was thought and I think the government, that the ministry had the understanding to set up some of those starting positions. It's up to us to take it a little bit and we have another law in this country that will be transparent and no one can talk about these insinuations that are present these days in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17540	Thank you. The last reported debater is the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović, and after that, we would agree on a way to continue the work of today's session.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17541	Dear Chairman, therefore, we are talking about a proposal for a bill on salaries and fees in BiH institutions. I can't figure out how so many burning replicas and reactions to individual discussions, since I think it's the legitimate right of every MP club and every political party to make their point. Eventually, if there are any objections, corrections etc. I can correct myself, but deny the elemental right of some MPs to state their position, I don't think it's right. I don't think it's a good climate in BiH that's ruling right now, and within that climate, we have this agenda point. There would probably not be so much pressure on the public or on the citizens that BiH has taken more significant steps forward, that people feel better, that the standard is better, etc. There is no such thing as this, on the other hand, we have one law and those other laws, which were also talked about in public, which, in some ways, irritated people. I, therefore, want to say that there is no need for anyone to fear five SDP MPs here in the BiH Parliament, they have their position. The position is not just the position of five SDP MPs, these five SDP MPs carry out the conclusion of the SDP Congress and the SDP's General Committee and they cannot behave differently than they are. So, they're the positions of the highest SDP bodies. I repeat, therefore, there should be no problem with the SDP, there are five of us, the majority of parliamentarians have 32, a total of 42 MPs and everyone has the right to deliver their opinions. I remind myself that, some will probably remember, in March 2007, a little over a year ago, I asked as a proposal for a part of the agenda to consider the little privilege of 73 of all state officials and, unfortunately, that proposal of the agenda point did not get the necessary majority. So that proposal was rejected. It would be much easier for us to talk about this topic today if the work had resulted, both in the BiH Parliament and the Council of Ministers, better than it is. That's why I'm not surprised at the public reaction at all, if we know that this BiH Parliament's House of Representatives in the past year has realized, from what he planned, around 30% of all planned. You have individual ministries in the Council of Ministers: their degree of realization of what they planned is 0%, when it comes to some legislative activities. And what do we expect from the citizens of this country when people see the effects of specifically individual bodies on the state level. It is indicative that even that proposal of twenty-one MPs that no one even wanted to show it to SDP MPs. Why? I don't know. But it is also indicative that this bill also came at a time when an artificial smoke curtain, artificially tailored tensions, fears, etc. was erected throughout the country. We certainly have the right to express our position here, and we must remember much more often than we do: the semi-million-dollar armies of the unemployed in this country, pensioners, workers and others. Everyone has a right to their stand. That's how I keep my attitude to myself. Instead of this proposal which should result in an increase in the capacity of certain state officials and officials, and we know that efficiency is not at a high level, I have the right to say that it would do something quite the opposite. Perhaps, if the results and effects of this are such that the most serious consideration should be given to the reduction here and that, absolutely, those who have said, in the course of the session so far, that both the receipts and wages should be linked to this part of the results and effects, I absolutely support that part of the discussion. I especially want to say that, because at this point all the key laws in the country are standing, all the key reforms are standing. How do we increase the receipts of MPs? People, can anyone tell if there are any states in the world that don't have an anthem! Well, at least BiH gets the lyrics of the anthem! Here, a fellow MP from 220 UN member states has found one example, but one property does not make spring. Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask my colleague to, or I would ask you to allow me to speak my mind uninterruptedly as an MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17542	Okay, here's the moment. So, I'm trying not to interrupt you, but you're right,...a lot of your colleagues in the meantime are throwing away, which is talking to each other, which is certainly defocusing you and all of us who would try to listen to what we're saying. It's our relationship with each other, so I appeal to everyone that we have one correct relationship with each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17543	I agree, I agree, that the right of free and uninterrupted opinion in this House is one of the fundamental rights, otherwise, if we do not have that right, at least then people can feel that they are in the Roman Colosseum, not in Parliament. What do I think the people expect to find themselves on the agenda here in Parliament? I'm going back to that political climate story. You know, there were 684 thousand poor people registered, according to the statistics of 250,000 workers working without any income. Half a million people are unemployed. You will often see pensioners in pharmacies who do not ask what is the best medicine but which is 74 of the cheapest medicine. It's hard in such a climate to really discuss everyone on this subject. Now, there are those colleagues who say, "This is a system law and whoever is against this law is against the system." If the SDP MPs weren't against the system, here I think, let's start by adopting this law, but respecting two principles, or criteria. The first criterion: no position of this law, no member of this law, after adoption, shall cause any fening to increase any acquittal. And the second criterion, the second point: that those receipts against the complexity of functions, responsibilities etc., may be aligned, not touching this first criterion, that there are no more increases. I must say here that I understand also part of the MPs who spoke in a way, and what is not in a certain way truly fair, the story of salary height should be one systematic and fair-set story. An honest story, let's see, why does it matter if the director of BH, say, Telecoma has 10, 11 grand, 8 grand, doesn't matter? Why is the director of the Elektroprivreda so much income? Why individual supervisory committees, etc. So they only stand at the head of public enterprises, which use the national wealth of all the citizens of this country! That story should not be forgotten at all, but it should be opened honestly and opened in really one whole and systematic way. Someone's going to say it's a demagogy, someone's going to say it's not a demagogy, I'm ending up with what I started. I have the right to my position, to make my position publicly loud and clear. I propose two criteria under which this law should be established in case, however, it is adopted as adopted. I, on my behalf, can promise that every fening of a new increase, as far as I'm concerned, goes for humanitarian purposes or for the scholarship of some gifted students or for the help of some endangered pensioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17544	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović: discussion. Here you go. And after that, we don't have any more reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17545	So here, let me just in the short lines a few notes. The first is reading the law that is before us, and I expected there to be a little more debate on principles, and I am sorry, chairman, that your suggestion is not respected to discuss all BiH state institutions so that today we have very little talk about police officers about, here is fellow Halilović mentioning soldiers etc., here I will mention, let's say, deminers. If, for example, the information that was recently placed in the media is that cleaning a square is cheaper than dry cleaning a square of carpets, then it is really worrying. I just want to point out the need to perhaps, through a debate on principles, pay a little more attention to what is here, and perhaps in that sense, a suggestion to the promoters. Here it stands, for example, flexibility. I will only remind you that recently, when answering one parliamentary question, we had, and also through independent audit reports, had several warnings, even stood quantification with one state institution, if necessary, here I will mention the Agency 75 for the State Service which had, for example, huge fees paid on the basis of commissions, work, let's say, a contract of action, etc. And, in that sense, I want to bring into the context of such perhaps anomalies that should be incorporated into these coefficients that are involved here, which would then, eventually, be subject to some corrections in the next stages of reading this law. I would like to warn that perhaps, under this principle of transparency and flexibility, what is causing such anomalies and which leads to discrepancies and regardless of the way in which the total income of employees in state institutions is displayed. I will not talk about the salaries in Parliament because I think the worst thing this Parliament could do is focus 90% of the debate on its own salaries and I was trying to imagine what it would look like, let's say, that the officers, customs officers, DGS... have legislative powers, so perhaps then the focus of the debate would be on the positions of such institutions, and that may be a bad thing that many parliamentarians, unfortunately, couldn't resist here. At the same time, I had no intention of reporting for the discussion, but I would like to remind myself, I was strongly initiated by a number of corrections, i.e. the need for correction of the wrong quote by counterpart Halilović. The ruling coalition, i.e. it has us in a Valada coalition that we don't receive wages, as it does in the opposition that receive wages. So don't... differentiate us that way, because then we'll take the debate in the wrong direction. Likewise, the newspaper you mentioned the other day about the colors of different, the colors of MPs, did not qualify the MPs of the position and opposition, that is, as you said in the ruling coalitions, but on another criterion. So I really needed to correct it, because the impression that could have been left after your discussion went to the address where it didn't belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17546	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Halilović: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17547	It only refers to a brief comment. So the ruling coalition has enough votes to adopt this without whether or not it was against it. When it comes to these deminers, I absolutely agree with it, that I have stood up for years and that is, as Minister of the Federation Government, I have been trying to suggest that each army demining its mines. Yeah, well, we've got about the agencies doing it now, and experts are sitting out of it, but that's another topic, I'm not opening the topic...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17548	I see you've signed up, Reverend Lijanović. You had a discussion, a replica and everything else, what? The conclusion in your discussion, you said, is that right, you just need it now: Please specify the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17549	Thank you. 76 The Committee for Finance and Budgets is tasked with drawing up a formula to attach the salaries of BiH Parliamentary Assembly MPs to the results achieved in the area of the external and trade deficit. As an apparition: for every reduction...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17550	Wait a minute, please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17551	Since this law stipulates that we are bound by wages on average in the country, and the average salaries are greatly affected by lower levels of government, so that we cannot directly influence these results, and the external trade deficit we have the full authority to directly influence. As an example: for each deficit reduction of 1%, the pay increase of MPs, envoys from 10% to maximum 200%, and for each deficit increase by 1%...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17552	Just a minute, please. Just hold on a second, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17553	...for every increase in the deficit by 1% in the salary of MPs, the envoys by 5% to 90% maximum. I think this will give us the opportunity to make good wages and to be satisfied and citizens of BiH that we have made good wages.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17554	And what about the others: the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the agencies, is that for everyone?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17555	So basically only for the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17556	And just for us.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17557	It is, because we decide, they are essentially the executive body that needs to implement what we decide.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17558	I have a need to call the minister, since, please, he has applied for a review of the discussion, answered some questions. Here you go, Minister. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17559	Thank you very much, Chairman. Here, it's my pleasure to say a few sentences, and I've been closely following all the debates. And I have to say, I'm glad that a document like this came out, came into your benches. ... After all the debates, I am convinced that he is still a good document, though he is always repairable. And I have to thank first of all the commission that worked inside of them. I share with them all the praises that were good, and what were criticisms, I take it upon myself, because as minister, I had the chance to change it in two ways as minister by proposing to the Council of Ministers, and then as a member of the Council of Ministers when we determined this debate. And now, if you will, in the end, it's clear to me why after all these years we don't have, you didn't have one law like this, the law on the benches. I followed your conclusions and attitudes that applied to my work, to my ministry. I think on two occasions that they were conclusions and what is waiting with this document, I took it carefully into work and, when you were rushing, spoke only... you can't quite as easily, it's complicated, it's done. Well, thank Bog we've come to this position to do, at your request, a single law that is truly unique, because that's what I've been doing. This is where the esteemed representative Lagumdžija mentioned my name and said I should have explained it, that he criticized me for it. ... As Mr. Lozančić said, I thank you for this, I did not get this document from these international institutions, OHR etc. Numbered, so it's not at my address, I've got it on a private line. But I didn't feel obliged to talk about him and interpret him. It will be you, and I will personally help you as Minister until this second phase of the amendment that will be. I'll say something else so I don't speak next time, so I don't forget. All of these institutions have had deep and long conversations with me and with the ministry about what's written here. What I'm about to give is my impression to the public... everyone went over the door of their shoulders--well, Minister,... but in the end, we still get this letter as it says, and what I'm worried about, so maybe a little bit here and you guys don't get into a lot of things. In this document, believe me, there are articles that don't exist in the law, we'll do it next time, we'll refer to an article that isn't there, it was in some first draft a year ago. It speaks of the seriousness of those who write. I want to abolize perhaps those who are in the title, but their scribes probably have a much bigger salary than you and no one asks how many they are,... working for them and then they write them and they sign it, which is not, which is not, even true. When the principle of independence is, I leave it to you: whether some institutions will be included through this law or not! But please, is there a higher degree of independence than when you define something by law! There is no act here left to the Council of Ministers or Ministers. When it comes to the judiciary, there is absolutely no minister, no Council of Ministers, everything is left to the branch it runs. So, if the court, the president, and in his governing body, the prosecution, etc. We have both the coefficient and the base and what I'm most happy about as a minister for creating the basis that I can lead fiscal stability, the projection for next year, for three years. I can now tell all of you or any of the budget users to calculate the salary for the next three years. I'm saying it's going to be one percent, because I'm going to do a projection of the average salary growth, we're going to have what's most valuable in this law that I'm experiencing. And that's why I think that this independence becomes more of an act of political 78 commitment, and if it's independent, that from one of the chapters that it's working on, we take it out now, and we just say it's called a special law, I don't see what that difference is. Either as a special chapter in the single law or as a special law, and it must also be passed by this Parliament, so I don't see what we're really spending so much energy on and that's why we're acting like one. A couple of things that were still said here. What someone has now said: this law is, in fact, its implementation, the application costs about 50 million marks, it's hard to say, means additional funds to the existing state. We've got them in the budget, we've got the technique. I explained that when we adopted the budget that if we adopted it now, this second half of the year, we could implement it. But what I'm going to say again is, it's not my place to blame you, you're agents. You've spent the vast majority of the debate on one percent of these 50 million marks. That applies to you, Minister, the president of the state. For me, the president of the state is the president of the state, we chose him, if we don't like him, we choose others, you're MPs, you're elected. You must have adequate pay, as it belongs. Also, I think of all those who work. Cops, soldiers, etc. are often mentioned in this law. But out of these 50 million over 30 million, it's right on top of them. So it's not true we didn't take care of them. But what someone said is, "Strengthening the measure." The issue of the current political judgment is that something at one point is good to be made or not, is that relationship the way it's supposed to be? I think here's an opportunity hit, I'd like to ask you to propose amendments to include us from the ministry, from this task force and the commission that was, so we can make some calculations so we don't violate the concept and the system of law. Because if we jump that out in one place, as a principle... of combined dishes or glasses, full table, it falls there, if you push this one, so in that sense you'd ask. And now I won't defend the ministers, though, yes, we all spoke from our own aspects. Ministers don't have any fees under the law, none of the ministers have any compensation except pay... and my salary is 2,040 marks plus, I don't know, a work internship, maybe another 100 marks and so, it doesn't matter. But what I'm saying is that we've already applied practice and we've got big problems: we've abolished or we've modified the decision on fees. No more fees, no more ministers, no more colleagues in the Council of Ministers, i.e. employees, civil servants, where it was really often and illogical, not to say other words, we went to the variant that people from the Council of Ministers from the Ministrys participate in certain work to be rewarded, to be their work. So, that's why there's part of the stimulation in this law, if you put someone on the commission, so it stays over hours, the resolutely responsible minister or head of the authority can determine the stimulation, I don't know, of the 5% addition to this job, so we eliminated all those commissions that, I think, sucked out money unwarrantedly, and that criticism was fine. Here, if I helped, it was nice to meet you. We stand at a disposition to help as much as we can, I would ask you to do everything possible to pass this law. It's the same one mentioned in it after six months of commissions, it's even one of the most valuable, in addition to Article 7 of this law to analyse, correct and do as Bog commands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17560	Thank you, Minister. We'll take a lunch break by 4:00. I warn the MPs that after that we will continue to work until... the entire agenda of the session is over. 79 [[PAUZA]] Please, colleagues and fellow MPs, please. We need to be effective if we're going to finish our agenda today. For that reason, I would like to ask you for abstention from comments, unnecessary replicas and wild debates. 16th item of the agenda: Ad. 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Number Act (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17566	Gentlemen, the chairman, fellow MPs, it is obvious that these points enjoy less sympathy both from the Council of Ministers and from the media. I have to say, when it comes to this law, a lot of things seem unclear to me. I'll take three aspects that I think need to be clarified. First, aspects of financial nature. In fact, this law defined that its realisation required financial resources, but did not define how much financial resources it needed. There is no assessment of these necessary financial resources, which I think would be important, given that we are actually making a whole new institution. It is unknown whether members of the Fiscal Council will have compensation for their work or not, since this is about government presidents, prime ministers, law ministers, so we have no defined question whether they have a fee for working in the Fiscal Council or not. It is not known how many members this advisory group will have at any time. So it's known they'll have a permanent seven, but the number of temporarys depends on the case to the case. There's no amount of compensation for the work of this... advisory group. And it is not even quite clear whether it is professionals or not, or whether the people who work there are professionally constantly employed in BiH institutions, or in the Fiscal Council. Not to say that 81 at this stage is unknown neither the structure nor the number of employees at the Department of the Fiscal Council. All this leaves a serious dilemma as to how much it will cost us in this way organized the Fiscal Council. I am not talking about the need for the existence of the Fiscal Council and the need for the Fiscal Council to regulate some issues, in particular issues concerning the budget, in order to have synchronisation, synchronisation of work on budgets and synchronisation of certain commitments from the budget, particularly commitments per debt. The second question is jurisdiction. You see, Article 5 of the Law states, in the position under h, that one of the jurisdictions of the Fiscal Council is the adoption of the fiscal council budget. I don't think there are many institutions today at BiH level that are adopting their own budget. Of course, this raises the question: Then who is authorized to audit the adopted and spent budget? Is this the main auditor at the level, i.e. the general auditor or his deputies at BiH level? Obviously not, because the way this Fiscal Council is financed is defined by one-third plus one-third plus one-third plus one-third. Is there an entity audit responsible for that audit? It's obvious they didn't either. So a few serious questions, and when it comes to these powers, of course, it remains, remains, indeed, a dilemma. The dilemma is, among other things, whether this council can adopt proposals for short- and long-term macroeconomic projections, given that this issue is in entity jurisdiction. Shouldn't that be a question on behalf of an entity that only two people will do. And will after this be the subject of any debate on entities? Also, it remains seriously under suspicion that the fiscal council is proposing priorities for the BiH Public Finance Sector to be improved, given that we have transferred to BiH level only indirect tax management and not direct taxes that are also an integral part of public finances in BiH, and which, in no way could be within the jurisdiction of this Fiscal Council. And finally, the question of responsibility, as a third question, which, by this law, is not sufficient, seems to me, to be clarified. In fact, Article 12 of the Law says: In case the Fiscal Council has not reached an agreement, etc., it will notify that it has not reached an agreement. So, the Fiscal Council informs all those who should, which is the National Assembly, the Federation Parliament, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly that it has not reached an agreement. Please, gentlemen, who has the right to the luxury of funding from an authority that can ultimately say that he has done nothing and that he has no responsibility because he has done nothing, or no one is responsible for not reaching an agreement. And the essential job of the Fiscal Council is to reach an agreement because, if it doesn't have to reach an agreement, then today we have a body that doesn't have to reach an agreement where ministerial assistants are located and which in itself leads to a debate without any weight. So, if we don't have an agreement, then we don't need a fiscal council and it's impossible to predict the situation that there is no agreement. In that case, there must be a mechanism that must be agreed or, if it is not there, then someone must be responsible for why there is no agreement. We're not going to finance that kind of apparatus just because we finally figure out how we failed to make a deal. So, they're serious reserves under this law. Of course, there is no reserve of mine, if necessary, to the existence of a Fiscal Council that needs to be regulated, I have already said, the basic question, which is the question of the budget, the issue of the allocation of funds from indirect taxes collected in the Single Account, etc. For these reasons, we cannot support this proposal for a fiscal council bill at this stage. Of course, if it enters the stage of the amendment, we will certainly put amendments on what I was talking about. Thank you very much. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17567	Thank you. I have an important letter from Hadžiahmetović, so Križanović. However, I ask first of all from the Council of Ministers and the Resolute Ministry whether there is a need to. Okay. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17568	Thank you. Here, unlike colleagues Novaković, I, in the name of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina, welcome finally, here I am finally going to say the proposal for a law on the Fiscal Council. Finally, for several reasons, the law, i.e. the establishment of the Fiscal Council institution, is of particular importance for medium-term budgetary and fiscal programming in BiH and as such a presumption of ensuring macroeconomic stability and as an integral part of macroeconomic stability and fiscal stability in BiH. I'll just remind you of a part of today's debate that took place on the draft bill on salaries and incentives, for example, and remind you of recent imbalances in the fiscal sector that have been caused by the kind of fiscal leaps of individual individuals in the entire fiscal system in BiH. Similarly, when it comes to the general balance sheet of governments, i.e. the government sector, there is a need for co-ordination of all key aspects of macroeconomic stability in the sector, especially when it comes to public debt, i.e. internal debt category. Likewise, I would also like to remind you that we have faced each other for the last time in the process of adopting the state budget, i.e. the budget of the state institutions and international commitments with problems particularly caused by the disharmation both in terms of time and in quantity when it comes to budgets within BiH. First of all, I think of the entity and state level, and in this sense I appreciate that the establishment of the Fiscal Council is an assumption that problems of this kind will not occur in BiH. Can I go on? You got it. In this regard, I will remind you that the Fiscal Council is also one way to provide the necessary conditions, i.e. assumptions for ensuring a single economic space in BiH, especially when it comes to coordination and fiscal, i.e., especially tax harmonisation within BiH, taking into account different competences when it comes to different forms of direct taxes in BiH. Likewise, I remind you that this is the way to overcome the problem when it comes to, say, the allocation of funds from the Single Account and the size of public debt within BiH as one of the key criteria and in the context of the approximation of BiH and European integration, especially to mention the European Monetary Union. I also want to mention one general rule which the country which is on its way to EU membership should integrate into its legislation, which is, that is, providing institutional capacity for the necessary fiscal harmonisation and coordination, and the Fiscal Council, in our complex fiscal system, I appreciate that it is one of the institutional forms for overcoming the problem of that kind. In view of what I have mentioned and many other arguments, I remind myself once again, of course, with a possible addition, or amendment, to the amendment of certain provisions of this law, that is, this bill when the time comes, 83 I appreciate that this is one of BiH's key steps towards speeding up and reforming the economic sector, as well as the assumptions for a faster path towards European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17569	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17570	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I'm thinking about whether there is a need, after my colleague Novaković's discussion, to say something special, but I'm really going to cut it short. In fact, it is good to pass the Fiscal Council Act with everything that is listed to be done by the Council, in accordance with Article 5(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Let me just say in this context that under b), i.e. (a) and (b) the responsibility of this council, says: the coordination of fiscal policy in BiH and the adoption of the proposal for a document to the Global... framework for fiscal balance and policy in BiH. So I specifically stressed this in order to say that I consider it to be quite an exaggeration of Article 6 which speaks about the global framework for fiscal balance and policy. So, I guess this Fiscal Council was established to establish these frameworks and policies and what kind of policy I don't know at all: what kind of agreement should be made between the BiH state and entities now when their, as I say, members like their proposal come to the Fiscal Council to do the whole job. In that sense, I think it's completely unnecessary for me to be vague about what these agreements are about. Article 10 discusses the Secretariat of the Fiscal Council and says the Council is coordinating the activities and work of the Fiscal Council. That may be a little unhappily said, and I think it should be situationed, defined. The work of the Secretariat which it normally is, it is to ensure technical and organisational conditions for the normal functioning of the Council. Here, in that sense we will... make an effort to give a concrete proposal to repair this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17571	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Erić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17572	I will just repeat: I voted "against" on this committee, and I will give little reason why my definition was for that purpose. If we accept that the task of this fiscal council is the primary surplus, i.e. the primary deficit, and if we determine the difference between the primary surplus and the deficit that we know what our situation is in the state, then we realize that this Fiscal Council, however, is going to do one part of the work done by the Management Board for indirect taxation. If we want this Fiscal Council to consolidate budgets and have insight into movement means tax and distribution and to reach surpluses, then we definitely have to figure out how they do it. If the Directorate for Direct Taxation is bound,... in BiH, then we must understand that before this story they had to regulate 84 and fiscal cash registers, where we are losing somewhere in BiH, I say responsibly, meaning up to 200 million. And we had a debate earlier on about 50 million and the whole state got up about it, and basically here we have a lot of more pressing jobs to do, and, I think, first of all, these jobs need to be done and they need to work out institutions that are already paid for, ministers who are paid and governments that are competent. Why am I saying this? Now all this writing is about what the Fiscal Council needs to do has no argument that this is going to change and that we're going to get to the desired goal. So if we say that the Fiscal Council has to take care of whether certain budgets are due or how much they've spent, if we figure out how the budget is coming, if the parliaments vote, governments vote the budget, then the Fiscal Council will say, "Well, wait, we can't accept it, we're going to take that down." Right? That was our goal to come up with a solution. And a certain government will owe the budget more than is necessary. The Fiscal Council will schedule a meeting that will not be attended by two members representing a particular institution who have brought it in and cannot be resolved. If we say that the Governor and the Prime Minister of the Brcko District are, then, observers and do not have the right to vote, of these six participating in the vote, it should be five for a specific decision. So no decision that's valid will be able to get support, in fact it turns out that we've passed one law,... which has its form, and essentially has no essence. And I would really draw attention to going back and making a software whole system, and then when we have an idea of what's going on with all the taxes, then we need to do this law, and absolutely, and there should be a Fiscal Council that will edit and earlier prepare stories that are clear. Or, these prime ministers and finance ministers who will participate in the making of their budgets mean that they actually have a managerial relationship on how to do it at the level of their entities, i.e. the consolidation of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17573	We now have the honourable Ambassador, Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17574	Well, here, thank you, Chairman. First of all, and unlike here are my two predecessors who spoke, I really want to express my satisfaction that we have this document on the table today. Yes, and we can link this document to this long debate that we had, which is related to the Law on Salaries and Receipts, that these are the documents that BiH needs and that will thus create a more stable, clearer, transparent future, both in the institutions and in the state of BiH through the formation of both the Fiscal Council and the Coordination Committee and these other bodies provided for in this law. And in that sense, so, in short, to say that I'm really encouraged to come here to the stage that we have this law and I hope that... as soon as we finish the procedure and publish it so that we can apply it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17575	Thank you. No more reports. Is there a need for someone from the ministry? Dear Minister Vrankić. Here you go. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17576	Maybe we're all tired today, so here's just two sentences. I will read one paragraph: Given the structure of the BiH government, the need for the establishment of the Fiscal Council is imposed, with the task of coordinating fiscal policy and with the aim of ensuring the macroeconomic stability and fiscal sustainability of BiH, or the Federation, or RS. Here I think on the grounds I purposely read this very... quote that stands. I wish it was a lot different, but it's not. This is our reality, and from this reality called the BiH Constitution, I have tried as a minister, so I must say in cooperation with international institutions, to compromise what you have in these, I don't know, a dozen...members. The question is, What if there is nothing? I'm just saying now: if we had this Fiscal Council before we adopted the budget, then we'd be asking different questions and someone would have previously solved all of our dilemmas or we wouldn't have a budget. You, or we, would not waste time, for the former things have not been solved. So we must definitely respect ourselves and, if we want to bring in the budgets, we have to determine the fiscal capacity of the country, if we see something different, then we have to propose measures, so those in charge, the IRS, will react as well, and we'll increase it, so if we don't have the resources, I don't think we're over-indebted, so we'll look for credit, but it'll all be written in these frameworks that we're going to sign. That's why an agreement is said and sent on time for at least six to seven months. Because I said the last time: the budget initiative is already getting bigger, so these are all processes that are going, and in one way we can't work. If there's an obstruction, there's no, if someone doesn't want to sign, one of the ministers, one of these, we've balanced the national structure that they can't do without one, etc. which is the reality of BiH. And I think if we want to work, then there's plenty of space to do that. If there's obstruction, then the budget stays the same, and that's the only sanction. There's no budget. There's no last year's budget. There's a little punishment, which is what, part of it has to be paid to settle the internal debt, but that's what entities do to themselves, anyway, they pay for it. It's at this point, I mean, and it's not in someone else, it might have some power, it's gone now. We went with the proposal and some other proposals in the first stage when it was, but they obviously didn't pass: something is from the aspect of the legal basis, and something, perhaps, of both political and other. So here in one sense I accept every improvement... of this law, of the text of the law. But here's the thing I'm asking you to do is make sure that if someone suggests the other one doesn't mind. ... I know exactly what I'm saying, because we've barely reached a consensus on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17577	Thank you, Minister. Since there are no more reports, I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 20th point of the agenda: Ad. 20. Proposal for a law on the Agency for the Control and Security of Forced Disposal of Assets acquired by Criminal Crimes and the Management of Disposal of Assets 86 On March 10th, the SDP Club of BiH delivered the bill in the procedure. On March 21st, we got a technical correction from this club because they left out the preamble. On 28 March 2008, the Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis and on the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. I'm giving the Proposer the first word. Is there a need for a proposal? Dear Ambassador Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17579	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I respect this time and today's session and tiredness, but let me tell you in the shortest possible terms about the reasons and the need to pass this law. First of all, I want to remind you of one fact that we all know: that crime, organised crime and corruption and mob action in BiH are very widespread and that these are one serious pain of society and state as a whole. According to estimates, in BiH today, organised crime controls about a billion and a half marks that end in private pockets past regular flows. BiH, in addition to all attempts to fight corruption and organised crime, is unfortunately still located somewhere... among the 50 countries with the most widespread corruption and crime in the world. I'm not going to talk here about the pests this state has and the reflection on our economy, on our social situation. They have one general... citizens about corruption, I say, people in BiH from porters to political parties and the largest institutions, the highest institutions in BiH. In addition to what we have said about our situation, I would like to remind you of a few details that BiH, as a signator of certain international conventions, has an international obligation to make this situation more significantly better. I'll only list some. This is the European Convention on Money Laundering, Searching, Swimming and Confiscation of Assets acquired through Criminal Actions. The convention is from 1990. I would like to remind you that the BiH Peace Implementation Management Board in 2003 required BiH to develop a comprehensive programme for the seizing of property acquired by criminal actions and to establish an appropriate mechanism for implementing such a law. The latest UN Anti-Corruption Convention, which our parliament ratified in early 2006, also obliges, in several of its articles, the countries signatories of this Convention to make significant efforts to fight organised crime and corruption. Let me just have two quotes. In Article 31 of that Convention, which applies, I stress this, to the freezing, confiscation and confiscation processes, it is said: Each State Party to this Convention shall adopt, in accordance with its domestic law, legislative and other measures necessary to regulate the confiscation and management by the relevant authorities, frozen, confiscated and confiscated property committed to criminal offences. Furthermore, Article 4(2) states: Each country is obliged to ensure the existence of one or more bodies or persons specialised in the fight against corruption by law. Such a body or bodies or persons must ensure the necessary independence in order to be able to carry out their duties effectively and without any... influence. 87 I wanted to quote this in order to realize that the international plan is accepted, generally accepted, that there is no effective fight against organised crime, corruption, money laundering or terrorism without an adequate legal mechanism that enables strict control of suspected monetary transactions, which makes it impossible to determine the origins of the property and effectively confiscate illegally acquired assets for the benefit of the state. It is believed that organised groups, organised criminals, simply, when they do not have enough resistance and organisation of the state, that they simply accept the risk of their craft to be caught and convicted once and for all but without returning the looted property they have, however, at the end of the line. We have studied the experiences of many countries in the world that have long-standing state traditions, built institutions, but under pressure from organised crime and corruption they had to resort to additional legal solutions and additional mechanisms that would effectively fight it and take away illegally acquired property. I'll just mention this: Italy, Belgium, Croatia, the Netherlands, Great Britain, and lately, Serbia has been preparing to pass similar laws, and I think it's possible that it's passed them these days. What are the experiences of our judicial institutions in BiH? We have several times had the opportunity to consider the annual reports of the prosecution, so we have also asked the prosecutor's questions to the prosecution and to the courts: How long has the verdicts, the criminal verdicts, been reached on the confiscation of illegally acquired property? I will remind you that there is a very bad situation, that we have difficult proof of illegally acquired property, especially, that is the complaint of the prosecution, and in particular it is unregulated and implemented only by the confiscation and confiscation of that property and the management of that property. So, not to go any further, I wanted to point out in this way that the aim of this law is precisely to complete these gaps in our practice when it comes to the discovery, freezing, taking over and management of the seized property. In this context, this proposal for a law draws closer to and explains the organisation of this agency, where it is foreseen to have three departments: the Research and Documentation Department, the Department for the Insurance of Forced Disposal of Assets and the Department for the Management of Disposal of Assets. They were given, let me say, closer procedures for the work of these departments and their cooperation with judicial and other bodies. I would not now enter into further clarification of certain provisions, but ultimately I would like to point out that, as legislators of this law, we have been deeply aware of the sensitivity of this problem, that, when defining certain provisions of this law, the bill's proposals, we have consulted a large number of judicial experts, out of practice at all, that we have tried and we have been convinced that we have respected all human rights but, too, that we have used the many experiences of the countries that I have listed and the convention, which I have also mentioned here, which BiH, as their signator, is obliged to implement. The rights of opposers are respected, as we speak here in this law, the bill's proposal, even so far that if it turns out that a mistake has been made in the work of this agency and at all of the other authorities, that a full compensation for damages to the opponent. I'd like to draw attention to the precise name of this law. It is popular in the public, but or as publicly as it is called the Law on the confiscation of property, shortened. I ask you to pay attention that, therefore, this is about the proposal for a law on the Agency for the Control and Security of Forced Disposal of illegally acquired property and the management of that property. Why did I point this out? Because this simplified name has certain implications, it has a certain studio sensitivity, so it's some kind of independent body that takes away property. I would like to stress 88 that here, in fact, nothing is done without the court and that this is an additional mechanism that helps to detect a hidden, illegally acquired property in control of this, therefore collecting documentation and which, in cooperation with other authorities of the judiciary and prosecution, helps in the investigation and, in particular, ensures that suspicious, suspiciously acquired property will be frozen, will not be devastated or...before the start of the trial, and that it will be managed rationally when its confiscation occurs. So, it's all based on the court's decisions. We are sincerely convinced that such a law would achieve at least if this corruption and crime were contained and a message was sent that, in the end, property was illegally acquired that would be taken away – that crime would not be paid. To ensure the independence of this agency, it is intended to be the only one responsible for the BiH Parliament. Thank you for your attention. I'd stop here and, if there's a need, I'd turn myself on again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17580	The second vice-chairman, honourable MEP Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17581	Here, I'll really try to be very brief. So, before I say a few words about the principles that we are discussing today in our first reading, a little appeal to the promoter, or a recommendation. So, understanding the complete need for everyone to lobby and somehow propagate their project, my idea, I appeal to them to refrain from accessing them: whoever is in favor of the law is fair, who is not for the law, is a thief. So, the promoter himself said, the proposer himself said it was a very subtle thing, so in such a way, and a sensitive thing that can bring benefit to this country, but it can do great damage in the system and even lead to a situation that violates human rights. Therefore, he should really be very, very careful. As for the Party for BiH, we do not have reservations in terms of finding all possible ways to take away everything acquired illegally, but we have reserves in how it is done, whether it is part of the system, part of the procedure, etc. So, the promoter himself has now pointed out in his explanation that he is paying attention to the title. In that it is a point in some way and we are inclined that the Agency, in practice, primarily performs management tasks temporarily seized and seized property. In the law, therefore, Jozo said, the property is taken away by judicial judgments, etc. Based on Criminal Law and predicted norms. However, in this law, in some things, police powers are given to this agency. We need to get a good look at that, see. So it's about entering the room, it's about some of the shops that are typically police. Some activities in the field of social activities, policies, etc. are also being introduced. The question is whether such an agency... is the key to us: compliance with the criminal laws of the state and entities and we will try. Unfortunately, here today there are no representatives of the Justice Department, no justice, no court, no prosecution, etc., they know exactly what's going on. I've already asked for certain opinions, to tell you the truth, self-initiatively and has different opinions,...unlike what Križanović is talking about. On the one hand, you have people who support, but there are experts and people who... have something different. 89 But here's to say,...we will not stop this law at this stage, but it is certain that we will insist that... this solution be consistent with criminal law and state and entity and that it does not jump out, so to speak, and does not turn into something that could be counter-productive. When it comes to these international conventions, especially on the UN Convention against Corruption, here, you will be surprised – I have been able to look at the analysis done by USAID, a good part and a satisfactory part of the legislation – BiH's criminal legislation has already installed obligations under this Convention, at least that's what this analysis says. Well, here we'll see... at a further stage whether it's true, but here I'm talking about an NGO, or one agency that's been dealing with this, which has given an analysis, which says that our criminal law is quite consistent with this convention, and of course it should be respected. So, I repeat, at this stage of the law we will not stop but we have indicated things that we will have to resolve in the next procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17582	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17583	A colleague, Belkić, said a part of what I was going to do. All against corruption is whether, all it can do to be in the country's least corrupt and nothing that can be against human rights, anything that can enter the human rights threat zone, we don't need to invent hot water. I think these things have already been resolved in the EU, yes, and they have been wrestling and wrestling further with corruption. We need to see their models and their solutions. We also need to see... how compatible this is, what counterpart Belkić said, how consistent it is with... criminal laws, with existing mechanisms. As far as I know, there are agencies out there to, uh, conduct, to store, to sell, but to manage what is being forced to confiscate by criminal acts. However, although the title that we're being offered here is that it's the Agency for Control and Insurance of Forced Abduction, there's one word missing: this is 'the Agency for Investigation', because it enters the premises, it has the right to collect from neighbors,... as it's called, from citizenship data, it initiates the procedure, you know, so how did the neighbor buy golf, so how come he now, what's going on here in the wave? So, I mean, I'm afraid there's probably been a... measure. So we can all be guilty here until they prove otherwise, and by law, we're all innocent until proven guilty. Here you see, only in definitions, third parties, I'm sorry, under the fourth income, the word income, which sounds so benignly in this law. So any property benefit obtained by a felony. It's already negative, as soon as you say income, that's something, some thieving. There's no income that's not thieving. Under the sixth agent. That means the object that's the result of the crime. Well, I guess not every asset is the object, the one that's the result of the crime. Could be something else, like, 90 if there's a positive asset. Already here... citizens are putting themselves in the role of someone who has done something that is wrong. On the fourth page, Article 3c) Criminal acts and acts of corruption and crimes against official and other duties and receiving gifts and giving gifts. You can't give a man... I don't know what, a flower to someone, say, for March 8th! Is that giving gifts? There should be some amount to be made to which this giving is going, and there are probably gifts. I'm saying, in an orderly system, it's known that you can give a nice pen, but you can't give a 5,000-mark pen, because it's already... kind of corruption. In order to be said, in Article 6, if the property benefit is acquired by criminal acts united with other assets, the measures provided for in this law are subject to the whole of the property. You can give, like, some gift or get a present, so they want to take all your property. I think we should take a good look at this. In Article 18. The Agency may collect the necessary information from citizens. That's what I am, which I explained a little bit... etc. So, I don't think we should even give this green light first with first reading until the Council of Ministers, or the competent authorities proposed by the Council of Ministers, examine the compatibility of what is proposed by this law with our judicial system, the prosecution, the courts... what they are doing, what they are responsible for and with the solutions... which are found in a regulated civilised society, the EU... on this issue. Those two should be established, so to determine if we can support this or if it needs to change something. And the SDA will, in that sense, give one conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17584	Thank you. We have reports: Honorable Ambassador Novaković pa Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17585	Dear colleagues, you see, I have at least two feelings about this law. Namely, one feeling like a man who's in opposition, like a man who's done everything he's done in a way can't be the subject of this law. That feeling then identifies me to support the principle process of confiscation of illegally acquired property and then to say that I'm in favour. Is it possible to do this without this law? Yes, it is. Have the courts done that before? Rarely. So BiH's Criminal Law defined this. Unfortunately, this question, unfortunately, has not often happened in practice so that it has shown itself, in some ways, the need and the formation of a new body that would now improve the process. I can watch it this way. It's that first feeling of mine. The second feeling I have stems from my constant need to fight communism, and that feeling defines me not to support this law in any way. Namely, the experience we have with such agencies in the previous period, including the behaviour of the promoter himself, defines that we have not finished this fight with communism. And that's what it seems to me, at 91 right now, that first feeling prevails, and that's the need for the existence of this agency. But, of course, it's an inner feeling. My sense of responsibility as an MP is something quite third. What significantly defines me, too, to have, to say the least, a dilemma whether to support or not this law, is the fact that this law stipulates that the property of the entity is being moved outside the entity. However illegally she was acquired, she was acquired in that entity and was property of that entity. So, illegally acquired property of that entity. [[Common discussion]] Therefore, no agency can take away... a joint discussion
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17588	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17589	And because of that, it further strengthens my dilemma do you even seriously talk about this law? Here's my colleagues convincing me, throwing away, that we don't need to talk seriously about this law, and I thought that seriously, seriously... we're talking about this law. I think it will take a lot more to convince me that this law, even if it has been avoided from the last version of the law, which the Court said was very rarely used, so it will still be very difficult to convince me that this law will not be misused in the way that it was done some 50 years ago. Of course, not to dispute the right of the promoter to think this way, I do not dispute the right of the promoter to have the right of inheritance except for property and methods, but I am therefore not ready to support this right of inheritance.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17590	Replica: Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17591	I don't know if Mr. Novaković heard from the president of the MPs' club, Mr. Križanović. If he listened to him, and apparently he didn't, he could also hear on the basis of which documents this law was proposed. So it's about the UN Convention, it's about a series of documents adopted by the Council of Europe, so it's about something that BiH has ratified to comply with BiH legislation. And where he saw the communist heritage in all this, that's the real question now. 92 I think this is a perfectly legal and legitimate proposal that has great support, not only in this House but also with citizens, and that it really shouldn't have discredited this bill in this way. The way he feels about, as he said, communism, etc., so the world didn't start, Mr. Novaković, from communism, you know. And before '45. Or since '41. By '45. They were some of the movements they were taking, not only illegally acquired property but also lives and legally acquired property and killing and banishing and slaughtering. And after these movements, there came this communist movement that I will not praise either, but which certainly was better than some genocide projects that spread fraternity and did what they did before the arrival of those that Novaković is talking about. But that's not the point. I suggest we try to talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17592	First Vice-President, honourable Ambassador Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17593	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests, I will begin from the end of the previous presentation of the distinguished representative Bećirović, when he said: but this is not the topic. I agree it's not a topic. What I'm having a problem with is this law: I can't figure out what the subject is and it's probably all the problem that it's not clear what the topic of the law is. I'm going to read the Agency Act, and now I'm not going to read the name of this agency. I guess this law should set up some kind of agency for something, yeah. So you'd...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17594	I hope we stop throwing away, the ones who keep warning about it, right? NO ONE
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17595	It's logical, so it would be logical in the first paragraph of the law to say - this law establishes an agency like that, such as that, with the goal of it, team, team, so we used to do when we passed laws on the establishment of some agencies. So we should probably say, in the next article of this law, the Agency's powers set up by this law are these, these, these. So we should probably say, in another, there are organisations within the agency, these, these. So we could say, they're going to run an agency that, who's going to supervise, etc., etc. Now, there's nothing in this law. And the esteemed representative Križanović, when explaining the proposal for this law, said: in the people this law is called the Law on the confiscation of illegally acquired property. I don't know how he started calling himself that in the people, when I don't see it here from this title. This is where the Agency is established. It says here that... This law regulates the conditions in which the Agency and courts act. With this law, we arrange something for the courts, too, yes. The conclusion is also that it is likely that the motive for proposing this law, the assessment and the assessment that our judicial system is not trained, is not capable, is not credible, is not committed, and now that I do not continue to criticise it, I am entering a dangerous sphere, because it does not apply the laws that give it the right and the possibility that, by the applicable laws, it will take away all illegally acquired property. That's a fact. Now. If the reasons for adopting this law are the fact that our judicial system is not going to do it, that it is not capable of doing it, then it is necessary to change something in the judicial system, not 93 to set up some new agencies. So, I remind my colleagues from the SDP, who have spoken about some of the other laws that we have mentioned these days, that it is unnecessary to set up agencies because it costs taxpayers. I expect the same concern from the establishment of all unnecessary agencies. So I'm saying unnecessary because in this matter, we have established agencies. I can agree and... I will fully share the thinking of all those who will say that they are dissatisfied with the effects of these agencies. That's what it stands for. But there's no way we're unhappy with the work of one agency to set up five other agencies or another or so. We create parallelisms. Here at some new agency we introduce principles, introduce powers, judicial authorities, executive powers, and some part of our own here a little power... and then, what a friend of mine, a while ago when it was debated about the Budget, so when we explained how much money should be allocated to the OSA, he asked me: what is it to you? ... It's those secret services. Is it like the way it is when... Well, I said yes, that's about it. So he says that's what everyone does for nothing. ... Now, we're here, so we're introducing one, a confusing system, I have to say, so we're introducing confusion, and I'd like to, so I'd really like this project to go somehow with the SDP votes, if we knew who brought it. I'd miss it then, I'd miss it. So if we can now go to the Rules of Procedure, it means that we can only make an amendment to this law, that it can only be adopted by SDP votes, I will support that conclusion,...just to see that it can't work. So, this law, regardless of purpose, I am not going into any intention at all, nor will I comment on the intentions, it cannot function – look at it a little, read it – means, no matter how honest the proposing's intentions are. And I'd like you to see that when the law is passed, so I can't accept that responsibility for me to take over this home, to pass a law that I'm preconvincing can't work. Here,... you think about the proposal one and the other... I respect your right to suggest this, but I think it took a much more concise, much more concrete... to think about how to improve the overall system that deals with these issues in order to ensure that what you are, here, speak in an explanation, to reduce corruption, to... take away, to manage it responsibly, etc., etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17596	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Križanović. Replica, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17597	(no microphone turned on)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17598	There are, there's ten more.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17599	Ten?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17600	Yeah. Let's go first: Huskić, Nanić, Kalabić, and we'll do it in a row. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17601	Mr. Chairman, in order to contribute faster, I'm giving up the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17602	I thank you for your constructive approach. Dear Ambassador Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17603	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really, when I listened to these stories and the activities that were under this law in the past term, as the man who followed, was then in the Federation Parliament, expected more of this in the text that I received. I would not add anything particularly to what Lozančić said in those expectations, however little while looking at the reasons for the adoption of the law, since the Council of Ministers has not acted and since there is an international obligation etc., I really don't think these are the reasons why we should adopt or do not pass this kind of law. By estimating the time we used here yesterday, I only want to look back at Article 12 a little bit, but here's the unsaid thing, so I don't want to repeat it. He says, among other things: the order to monitor payment traffic, that is, the previous position, which he says in Article 12. Ask the court to issue a payment order to the bank or to another legal person involved in payment transactions. What, I'm going back to the beginning, in a lot of these provisions, I really expected more. As a man, I can say that only because of what is placed in public stories, a great story of no content, that I will also make my contribution to letting go of this law, that these things that are all here are listed that are incompatible with the BiH legal system, to take opinions from institutions dealing with the protection of human rights, judicial institutions and all those who have an interest in... giving their opinion under this law. And to prepare himself better and come to us in further procedure of this law. And... this is what I'm saying as an MP, as a man. There is no club, there is no political party or any group that could influence me as a man, I believe that we are like all of you that can say that it will be against something that will enable or prevent corruption. Indeed, we need to enable the judicial and system of the complete BiH system to function equally with the protection of all, all those, means the rights that people and institutions have, as well as legal entities and people. It means there's no threat to their rights. In that sense, this should not be the law of a political party, this should be the law of the responsible people of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Responsible for the situation in BiH and responsible for not 50th but 78th place that BiH belongs to per certain, so I have some information maybe someone has some other and third ones again, etc., place by corruption. And I think, so this thing needs to be arranged, but it's far, far, far, far more than what's written here in this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17604	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go. 95
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17605	The Honorable Chairman, when I thought about speaking, but someone had just imposed a dilemma: Is this worth talking about and is this something to talk about? I've been thinking, but here's the decision. This, I suppose, but good and it's a legitimate and pre-election exhibition of SDP, related to this law, I don't dispute it, but I think it's the wrong polygon for this. I think it's wrong and the House of Representatives isn't the place for what they're trying to do here right now. I, I didn't even support it on the Constitutional Commission, and I explained why I wouldn't support it. It is very disputable when you analyse all the provisions of this document that the SDP is proposing. Let's say, when other political parties are proposing documents, then NGOs are calling for the last point when it comes to human rights and freedoms and everything else, but, let's say, it wasn't here or I wasn't following someone, and I'd like someone to analyze all of this, to say, from the position of human rights and freedom, as we stand with this document. The constitutional position is also very disputable. Even if they were to support something like this, they would set up a series of dilemmas that Mr. Lozančić and the others were talking about. How and who can do this and how? I have a feeling this might go away with that amendment from the Mostar Declaration. In order for that amendment to be welcome so that we can discuss this after the Constitution, so if someone is, so it creates that, then, perhaps, that amendment, if accepted, maybe we too could support as an integral part of this... law. However, taught by the SDP's experience of that Resolution on European Integrations, as Mr Lagumdžija said today, gave them a leg, that and who we kicked today in some debate, someone from those European institutions. And so here, we think that given the behaviour of the SDP when it comes to... the real moves around European integration, we have seen how it has been shown, so even here we don't believe in this story, even if it was given a chance, it's legitimately right for the political party to try to do something with these things at its political rating, but we from the SNSD, with all these shortcomings that I won't repeat, means absolutely inability in this way using this...zecon, we won't support this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17606	Dear Ambassador Bećirović: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17607	I don't know if Mr. Kalabić was a member of the SNSD from the beginning, but I can tell he doesn't exactly follow the consistency of SNSD policy. I am now not standing up to rephrase the SDP's dictionary and terminology, but only to show it, and I can give it to him after this session, and also to show you what his leader and president, Mr Dodik, has been saying about the same question for three or four years. And he says, among other things, that the vast majority of citizens barely survive, while the war-to-hospital centres expand their business empires. Well, so he's making a statement about the SDP laws here at the House of Representatives. And this is particularly interesting now, so you don't need to replicate to me, I quote the man. That is why the SNSD in the House of Representatives will vote in favour of this law, and if, by any chance, it is not adopted, we will surely adopt it when we bring down the ruling coalition of 96 national parties, which are rightly afraid of an investigation overnight acquired wealth, a quote. So I didn't say anything just quote a statement, I can give you this after the session to keep until you check possible credibility, but I'm aware that you know that I quote, accuracy, there.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17608	Here, and this is called democracy when you let the agenda tell you everything you have. Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17609	I don't know, Mr. Bećirović, do you have any problems with the continuity of one policy, because then you should go to 45, you know. Us, I didn't mention it in the discussion because I have serious access to this topic about when SDP owes leather coats and everything. Is it just a paradermal leather coat or is it really gonna wear a leather coat? Now there's a difference, Mr. Bećirović, ever since Milorad Dodik said that you stayed in demagogy, and in the RS it's all ready. And Mr. Milorad Dodik gave up the demagogue story with you about it here and creating assumptions, Mr. Bećirović, that this, at the level of BiH, can happen when assumptions occur. Since you have, meanwhile, denied both RS and Milorad Dodik and SNSD and all that you have denied, you have rejected the possibility of creating an assumption that this is done at BiH level. And Mr. Milorad Dodik, without waiting for your demagogy, has done this job in the RS, as you know, and SDP supports it in the RS, as you know, and look at your views on what your SDP is doing to you, which is in ruins in Banja Luka because 90% of the membership has left because it is no longer a multiethnic party. But they supported what's being done in RS. That's where the law was made, what Mr. Lozančić was saying, it's about the agency, not the agency, it's about the law of confiscation of illegally acquired property and, what's there, you can, you can, at your site, read how this serious political party works, not for demagogy. What Milorad Dodik thought, Mr. Bećirović, did with you, you dumped it as many good things in BiH and he turned to what he could, turned to the RS and wanted to do so in the RS and, in addition to all your disputes, you will not prevent him from doing so.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17610	Can you not throw it away, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17611	You've stopped him, Mr. Bećirović, as well as many other things you've given up on.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17612	He can't, can he? If there's anyone else on this line, go ahead. _________(?) 97 [[no microphone turned on]] You don't even have a chance, of course. We don't have any more applications for discussion, and there is. First comes Ambassador Alajbegović, and then Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17614	I'd just like to say that it would actually be best to take on this...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17615	Please allow the other MPs to say something about this. Here you go. AZRA
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17616	:... this SDP proposal... discusses together as with the anti-corruption strategy and I think this can be a good way in to actually initiate the creation of a anti-corruption strategy. This would certainly include this law, of course, corrected by all these attitudes that Mr. Lozančić specifically spoke of and from the aspect of human rights violations. What I would also like to say, regardless of the time, is that we are at a debate organised in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH by Transparency International heard that we are a country with a high degree of corruption, and in fact the professions that are most plying as professions were corrupt were executive and legislative authority, health and education. Of course, what's particularly interesting to point out is that... there is actually one measure of corruption that has become a measure of life in some segments of society. So, as part of this, I would really just say that we have a report from the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2007: on page 34, if you can open, there is an item that speaks about the crimes of corruption and the fight against official and other responsibilities and responsibilities, and here we have data that during 2007 there were only 48 applications against 108 people, the highest number of which were related to criminal acts of abuse of position and corruption. In which case, then we have 14 investigations against 15 people and only 9 charges filed. Now the question is actually being raised by this agency, and indeed, it was our intention to initiate activities to develop a comprehensive anti-corruption strategy in BiH, where it would then surely find a specific place and this agency, together with the tužilaštvo, with courts, would in fact establish a normal normal vertical fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17617	Thank you. I can only say, dear colleagues, that on that scale from the second place of health we moved on to this first legislative one, but. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go. 98
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17618	Well, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, if this item of the agenda were to be operated on by any policy and if we were to speak, and I think we should go that way about what BiH is, what BiH's commitment is, and that is certainly, one of its commitment – the fight against corruption and what BiH needs to have all possible democratic mechanisms in the fight against corruption – I think the discussion of this law today at this session would go quite the other way. I believe – we have today... and the Law on Criminal Procedure, we also have the police, we have the prosecutions, we have the courts – all of what we are talking about, the task is police and courts and prosecutors and inspections, all other possible bodies: the fight against corruption. And we have the results of what we have. From year to year, we realize that corruption is increasing in BiH, as we from BiH are assessing, assessing international organisations, NGOs, etc. So, something has to be done. And I think that here in Parliament, although the discussion, I say, went in the other direction, and I deliberately operate on this political part of today's discussion, points out that there is really something that needs to be done in BiH when it comes to fighting corruption. It's not good, and I'm going to tell my colleagues from the SDP here publicly, that this is a project of one political party, I think this should be a state project, and that we should clearly tell today what it should be: some project task to get us to a solution that, as I said about another law this morning, as much as possible to close the door to corruption, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, prevent any abuse of human rights and freedom. It's the only place this law can go. When we adopted the State Code on Criminal Procedure in BiH in 2003, the state... law, afterwards, entities harmonised their and procedural and material criminal laws and all these problems are therefore in these criminal laws in this criminal area. And we formed one working group then, so that's, that's the laws that experts did. So, I want to talk about it. So this is more a matter of one legal debate, because I think that the political commitment of all of us here should not be disputed, and that expert group followed the application of the Criminal Procedure Act for five or six years here in BiH and came out with... a hundred and a few members of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act that we will have here in Parliament after a public debate, and we passed that law in principle. What do I mean? When I look at this agency the way it's conjectured, this is progress compared to earlier attempts when it comes to some solutions, I see it, I see it somewhere, it's, it's also this inspection and investigative service. She also has certain jurisdiction of the prosecution and has co-operation with the court. So without the court here there are no decisions, it's clearly stated in this law, and that's what's good. Because I don't think it's possible to do things like this without a court of law. Not to be a bit longer, so it's obvious that the existing system, the existing system, isn't working when it comes to this area. The police have the right to confiscate items, to confiscate property benefits, and we usually in practice have a situation where a thief who pulled a wallet out of someone's pocket, the police take that wallet with money and issue a certificate of temporary confiscation of the case. Right? And, on the other hand, we all hear about these secrets, we all hear about these big embezzlements, and, I don't know, everything we don't hear. And, of course, there's no appropriate reaction. I would like us to close down, to close that space, and I think that the only possible solution to this law is what the president of the 99 SDA Club Mr. Bakir Izetbegović was talking about, and the conclusions that he proposed on behalf of the party. So we want this institution, the SDA wants this institution in BiH's legal system, and it's not a question at all. We want its functioning, therefore both material legal and procedural provisions – it is a very professional and highly sophisticated, highly sophisticated professional problem – to be incorporated into existing procedural laws. There's an institution and it's possible to do something. When I think about what it might be, then, it could really be an institution that would be like, say, what the police agencies had to do with the prosecutions, courts, etc. But whose task would it be, among other things, and what is it that we're talking about here? And that's where the procedure has to be carefully arranged, there's no planning, no editing, no procedures in mind. And I think that the Council of Ministers of BiH should take advantage of the existence of this expert group or form a special expert group in BiH, that this is the task of this Parliament to examine this together, investigate and, if necessary, propose a solution to form one such agency in BiH. And, of course, I know that in other countries of the world there are agencies of this kind. To look at the experiences that have endured the criticism of the democratic world, here in the EU, and to say: this is it and it works that way, and I am ready to raise my hand for such a thing. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17619	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Do you have a wish to answer it? Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17620	I realized there were a dozen people out there, so I didn't want to answer. And quit, okay. Okay. I thank you, Mr. Chairman. We heard a lot of fresh and interesting discussions today from a number of colleagues, we also heard discussions that are fresh, as fresh as they are compared to themselves earlier. We also heard some who were repeating what we heard in the last session. Once again, I want to remind you of what you've already heard and what you know very well. That this is the fourth time we've proposed this, and the third time he's thrown it all the way here, the third time. Interestingly, the last time our third proposal, which has not been passed by the Constitutional Commission, has not passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17621	Please listen to me, we're all tired. Let's listen a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17622	Yeah, the guy's tired, the guy's tired, he doesn't know what this means.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17623	Okay. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17624	Right, right. ... So the third time this law is proposed, it is in almost the same form as the first two times, and the first two times has practically fallen due to one vote in Parliament. The third time, when he came before the Constitutional Commission, he fell, because it was said for the third time that the law that passed the Constitutional Commission twice in the first two years was said to have no constitutional basis. So, the fact that for the third time the law had no constitutional basis, this law, speaks in favour of the fact that here the notion of constitutional basis was a very political category. And that was the way to stop the law... the simplest way possible. This time he received a constitutional basis, which gave many reason to think that the political will had changed now. After these discussions today, I'm afraid the political will has begun to change again. And we're already used to that when you're just about to say, right, one man throws something, then...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17625	We haven't heard anything about the principles of this law yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17626	Dr. Živković, you're absolutely, absolutely, absolutely tired, it's more than you can see. I understand you completely, and I'd be tired if I tried to keep this going the way you did. So, all the analyses that were used at this time, all the round tables, the expert discussions we had, all the analyses that were given to parliamentarians earlier, based on expert assessments of relevant European institutions, have found that in every country in Europe, when such laws were introduced they were finally introduced and introduced because political will had changed. And the first and basic obstacle to doing this is actually the only real obstacle, which is whether or not there's no political will to do this. Last time, a colleague of mine who has now debated in Parliament, in the last session is together with his colleagues from the then most numerous parties, and today they have said that: well, the next time this law comes, well, the next time it comes, we will be in, unless the statistics that we have then used on how existing institutions operate under existing laws in this area are changed. They were then given, since we were preparing after the second or third time asking the prosecution and the competent courts to tell us how much under the existing laws by the existing institutions were seized illegally acquired property, then...it was said that the data, and everyone agreed, that they were 11,000 and some 1:10,000 in relation to the estimates given by Transparency International and other organisations. If you consider that international organisations, which are dealing with this, say that 18% of BiH's GDP's corruption is, therefore, more than VAT, and when you see that the figures returned by existing institutions and the existing order mechanism of several hundred thousand to a few million in the best years,... you can see that the differences are huge. And then we were told by some and today by MPs: if the next time, in a year, two, it turns out that these institutions were doing just as badly, then we will support you. Now, now, now, no, no, I'm talking about you now, you're a different story. Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17627	Please, a little! 101
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17628	So, why am I speaking to this colleague, Mr. Živković? I'm talking about what's perfectly clear here. Is there any political will to move on or not? With full respect for the conclusion proposed by Mr Izetbegović, similar conclusions were proposed the last time these laws were rejected. And these laws were rejected, and these conclusions were adopted and given to the Council of Ministers to prepare all of this and to do this to us. And they didn't do anything because they weren't interested, because there was no political will. So, with all due respect to these conclusions of yours, I think, as they say, that we are the right state, the right country, serious people... these conclusions would be unnecessary because the Council of Ministers would have come to these conclusions a long time ago with their proposal on how to do this. So, if you want these conclusions to go further in time, you'd better honestly say, "We won't go any further." A proposal for it, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, a proposal! Don't say that you will now, the SDA will, then says but, just like that letter from the World Bank. I congratulate you on this law, however! And so he does, so don't tell us that you want to do this if you just want to on the condition of these conclusions. That's not correct. We're serious people, and we know that's not the case. That's why my suggestion is... to get out, try to get out of someone, some situation that nobody needs, because in the end this will be an accusation of who it is, who it is, who it isn't for thieves, etc. So you can have some time to get your shit together. Yes, and you see little of these remarks that you have, which there are the right ones to do. There's no reason. And since this is the first reading, I suggest that, with the adoption of the first reading, we draw conclusions like we did on similar occasions: that the committee responsible and the Council of Ministers prepare this, that this be prepared by the Council of Ministers here, that it organises that the Parliamentary Assembly, that is, our home as it is already done, the committee responsible to organise a public debate on this subject, to organise a public debate on this subject, and to call on the OHR to give its assessments. And let's call on the European Commission to give their assessment of this, and then on that basis we'll go to the second amendment phase. If they give the impression that this is irreparable, we are not the ones who are going to blow our heads off. So it's my suggestion not to start burning all bridges towards each other on things that we shouldn't end up with hard words if you don't want to, and I'm afraid, the way things are going, you're exactly like you want some of you. We're ready for that, and we're ready for that. So I urge you to support this in your first reading, not to lie, to express an act of political will by first reading. And then to make the right conclusions that, what you're now talking about, you're going to translate into a better document, in a way that, after all, you have such a majority that you can stuff it with your feet tomorrow so it doesn't get to this gentleman who's good at math. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17629	Dear MP Bećirović, it is not at all a question of how long you are, it is important what you say. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. 102
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17630	So, I really don't have, Professor, the intention of dragging this law, but to form some agency that you're allowing to listen to, to get in, to collect something from the committee, without having any criteria for who that first thing is going to be listening to, so that this comedian asks where his car comes from, etc. Who's the one who's gonna make the priorities? We have to have some categories, let's get us here first, let's say that's you, so let's see, first these under two of these which over a million marks have property, as they've acquired. It must be a way to know... go, not to be an Inquisition in someone's hands, here today perhaps in our hands, because we are in power, the next day in someone else's hands. We can't let it go like that. I guarantee you, if such agencies with such powers exist in civilised European countries, that I will now work together to be here. But I don't think that's how it is in a civilized world. There's got to be an agency that has this property, but it doesn't haunt people and it's not everyone's fault in advance. I beg you, there's a man from the SDA upstairs in the Council of Ministers, hurry up with this answer, give us that analysis for the month for this some reasonable time. How is it arranged out there and will this commission's work deal with what we already have, with our system? Is it incompatible? Can it be compatible? That's all. As soon as possible!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17631	Me, there is still an honourable MP, Beqirovic, for the discussion. And before him, Reverend Križanović was looking for a replica or something. Rounded it up. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija: reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17632	Dear colleague Izetbegović, just because you don't know something doesn't mean it doesn't exist. So, we've done this, and I keep saying it, but those who were in the last session of Parliament, like some of your colleagues, they know very well... on what basis we did this. Based on experiences, expertise, with the help of judges of the former Constitutional Court, current law professors, with the help of OHR experts, and let me tell you, who gave us all the documentation to do so on the basis of the best European experiences. That it is not good enough and I am convinced that this can certainly be fixed after a public debate and the first reading that only speaks of principles. And as for the criteria, and that's defined, and that's defined. And here, I repeat, what I said last time we had this. The Parliamentary Assembly, in fact, with this law, I fully agree with you, should actually call on those who represent the top of the executive legislative authority in this country and the political authorities to test this on those first 100 people. You, on me, on me, on Wednesday, Minister there Sadović, here's everything, so very simple. So let's show the act. I agree, if you're suggesting it as a conclusion, I'm ready to formulate it. Let's invite along with this, invite with first reading and these to prepare to start questioning us, and that's exactly what this law says. And it would actually be an act of true political will if we were serious people. Besides, they don't need any criteria to shake the first 100 people in this 103 country under this law, much easier things will go. And there's no need to be afraid. This isn't for someone who turns two golfes and makes a third. This is for those people who smuggle at golf factories.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17633	Of course, you'll all get right, you'll all get right. So, now on the line for what Mr Lagumdžija was saying, honourable MP Džaferović, then Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17634	You see, Mr. Lagumdžija, it's not, Mr. Lagumdžija, it's not correct, so it's not, at first it's not okay... here amongst us MPs. I don't think it's politically correct for you to judge who knows what, and who doesn't know what here in this House and that you attribute ignorance to the president of my club. I think it's incorrect on your part. I'm begging you, don't do it like that. I'm trying, and we're trying to have a cultural dialogue here, not to offend anyone, we're making views. I'm asking you to act like one. That's one thing, then. The other thing, we are truly true, truly, so I'm telling you seriously, true for the establishment of such an institution in the Bosnian-Herzegovic legal system that will be compatible with the existing system, if something needs to be changed in the existing system, and for that we are, but therefore, Mr. President of the SDP, we need serious analysis that I want here as an MP to see. And I told you how to get those analyses coming. And third thing, know that we can count well. There was no need for this kind of story from the U.S.A. if we were fakes. I could conclude from your discussion that... our performance, I've gotten such an impression, that our performance seems dishonest, right. We know how to count here in Parliament and we have heard the views of all clubs and we can already see the result, given the way we vote here and we could go much simpler than this time. We honestly performed and fairly expressed our views and believe that what was said by the club president was based on an analysis based on knowledge and from all of us and we will endure it to the end. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17635	Dear Ambassador Kadrić: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17636	So, I suggest...and answer to this statement by Lagumdžija: that this law really changes the title because it points to one of these many things that are quite this debateable when we speak because this title of the law... Proposal for a law on the Agency for the Control and Security of Forced Disposal of Assets acquired by Criminal Crimes and the Management of Disposal of Assets! And, in particular, after this discussion of the esteemed representative of Lagumdzija, it turns out that this agency should have a list of 100 people and has already mentioned some names, Nović, Sadović, who is immediately presumed to have his hands full, that he will invade their apartments, confiscate property before... this property disappears from that place, etc. So it's that 104 really... this agency is supposed to exist, some kind of agency that will deal with procedures, confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts, and not the same way they take property the way thieves do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17637	Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija: reply to the replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17638	This fellow behind me, I'm obviously looking multiple. He thought this was the seventh time. There, look! So it is. So here's who we're dealing with. So, you can call the language we speak what you want and you can say what you want, but it's obviously about whether someone wants to understand or not. Obviously, some people here will not deliberately understand and interpret things in a way that neither I have said nor have I thought of it. We've come here to break into apartments and shit. I took the ministers as an example, as well as Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, along with myself, and I said more illustratively that we should start more than the first 100 people under the protocol of the BiH presidency. And that's the political part just, not the other part. And that's what I end up with. I would suggest you read the EU Council of Ministers Decision published in the "Official Journal of the EU" of 19.3., which clearly speaks about the principle, priorities and conditions contained in the European Partnership with BiH on the basis of Decision 2008/211/EC, and here you will see very clearly what they say. Whatever you decide here, for nothing, these things will be arranged either this way or in some other way, but they will be arranged. So we better work as soon as possible, have fewer homework to leave to some other people who will come after us. If you won't, my Bog, and I won't use these terms I've heard from mine, what would he say to me, a respected colleague, I think, Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17639	Correction of the incorrect quote: Honored Chairman Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17640	Just one sentence. It has been mentioned several times that there is no political will. Believe me, Mr. Lagumdžija, there is political will and there is political will in the SNSD, but there is no political will to be with the SDP, not with the SDP people, but to be with the SDP, while you are at the helm, anything at all. That's the only reason. Dear MP Bećirović had.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17641	Thank you. First of all, I want to say that I'm just leaving this thesis that this is, first of all, a matter of political will. But unlike my predecessor, I have a little different thinking again. I don't think anything good can be done in this country while it's headed by the SNSD, Milorad Dodik, but good. It's our right to think that way. So this is a matter of political will whether we are ready to implement the provisions of international conventions. So, the UN international conventions and, since this is the fourth time in 105 of the BiH Parliament, this is a question, so why BiH and the BiH Parliament in some form and some form are not ready to align it. What's the motive? We've already talked about it, because it's quite clear that some people, and I believe that there are no 2% in this country, have acquired entire business empires while, on the other hand, most often by embezzlement of customs, taxes, etc., while, on the other hand, over 90% of people have poored. We have provided specific examples here and cited examples of Belgium, Italy, the Netherlands, the UK, etc. All these countries have properly specialised institutions, which in cooperation, above all, with the judiciary, take the necessary measures towards confiscation of funds, property acquired by criminal actions. I must indeed say here that I have heard from many MPs from those who belong to the ruling coalition that they are also aware that the existing solutions are not good when it comes to fighting crime, and that BiH is getting lower on the world scale of measuring corruption every year. And, if someone is punished in this country, so the perpetrators of criminal acts, never or rarely, are in harm's way, so even in this judgmental structure, you will see that out of 1,000, let's say, convicts in one entity, only 45 of them were convicted, conditionally said, because of economic crime and, again, no one was permanently deprived of that property that he had criminally acquired. So the amount of that confiscation property is completely miserable, and that should put us all on serious thinking. What about the UN Convention against Corruption? BiH has ratified the convention. Do we not feel the need to implement our obligations under this convention? I have to say here, given that there have been enough of those who wanted to discredit this legal proposal, that the Institute for the Abuse of Property Benefit has a foundation, first of all, in one of the basic legal principles, the legal principle that no one can retain the property benefit, which he illegally acquired. If you analyse some judicial rulings of the Court of BiH, which relate to the crimes of money laundering, acquisition, confiscation of illegally acquired assets, etc., you can see from the judgments analysed that the total is: out of 44 million converting marks, all under-performing 5% permanently taken from the perpetrators of the crimes. It is obvious that for the effective repression of organised crime, a blow to his property is necessary. And it's no invention from these southern Slovenian spaces. The first to represent such an attitude was Italian Judge Đovani Falkoni. He first applied an economic analysis of the mafia organisation and stated that fighting the mafia is not enough just repressive methods. The only real way to stop organised crime is to reduce the capital of those criminal companies that have become such in a criminal way. Here's an example of Great Britain. In the summer of 2002, the Britanac passed a law on property acquired by a criminal offence which, apart from prison, they decided to hit criminals in the pocket. The law in Great Britain came into force in March 2003. By the end of 2003 alone, £54.5 million was collected on this basis. Already in the following year in the UK, so in 2004, the figure increased to 84.44 million pounds. So, I'm talking about Great Britain. In order for the UK to achieve these results – and we see at least in principle some today say that there is a will to use the experience of Western European countries – so the Britanac, to do this, which I have mentioned, have established a specialised agency authorized to investigate, monitor and find assets acquired by crime. It is very important to stress here, so I am talking about these Western European experiences, but also about this law, and this is also the goal of this bill proposed by the SDP, and we want to emphasize it in particular: human rights are undeniable and it will in no way be compromised by the adoption of this law. The desire for democracy to enjoy private property full protection and for the SDP is 106 completely unimpeached. So this proposal is not meant to deny someone human rights. It is focused, complete with this legislative proposal, so that this state can effectively fight illegal and illegally acquired property, for the property for which the origin of the property cannot be determined. Someone also mentioned existing BiH legislation. However, a number of legal experts dealing with this problem also point to the fact that Article 110(3). The criminal law of BiH also has a number of contradictions, indeterminates and opens certain dilemmas, so that in this respect it would be desirable to come to one such agency, not to mention a number of NGOs professionally dealing with this problem and also proposing the adoption of one such law on one agency, so that BiH could model Western European countries to more effectively tackle these problems, just as they do in Italy, Great Britain, Ireland, the Netherlands and other EU countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17642	Thank you. Let's line up with the replicas. So, the first deputy lawmaker, Lozančić, then Prodanović, Jovičić and Novaković. All the replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17643	Thank you, Mr. President. This replica on several presentations by the club of authorised promoters, let me put it this way, although it seems to me, Mr Križanović signed the proposal as a representative of business, but here is the last debater said this was the SDP's proposal. And in that sense,...I don't mean to pollute about accuracy and inaccuracy, what you said. But what bothers me throughout the sources of explanation: you have a strange need to talk about what is not on the agenda. And now I'm gonna try to tell you why. And that's why I'm replicating. You've told us a lot about the UN Convention on Corruption here. Your party president and distinguished representative Lagumdžija talked a lot about European conventions, the views of the European Commission, the positions of the Council of Europe etc. And I respect that. However, you have very little as a proposal to explain what is in the law and why the law is the way it is, which I think is a lack. But while you are already calling for conventions, I will only briefly mention to you here one analysis of the compliance of BiH's legislation with the UN Convention. So now, I will quickly do this,...I will try to fit into these three minutes... what is required of the signatories countries: to sanction bribery of national..../too quickly read/ embezzlement, abuse, money laundering, obstruction of justice, participation... passive bribery, abuse of influence etc., there are a whole series of lists but, for a short period of time, I will not read everything now, but you can read it. And then, he says, here in BiH law in Criminal Law: there are crimes, receiving gifts and other forms of benefit, giving gifts and other forms of benefit, receiving gifts etc., giving bribes, receiving bribes, receiving gifts, giving gifts, receiving bribes, and so on. means a whole series of crimes sanctioning exactly what this convention is required of BiH. We have a follow-up, a misdemeanor, a misdemeanor... /read too fast/ etc. And now there are 15, excuse me, 20, 20 here are the exact pages, an analysis finding that BiH legislation, if that is to say, has been re-coordinated with this UN Convention on Combating Corruption. Which means 107 also proposes more rigorous measures in its legislation to prevent corruption than this Convention requires. This is when we say, even though this is, this is because you said it was a subject, so let's say it's a convention. What I said in my first address, so it's not a problem, I don't mind you suggesting whatever you want. But if we have an assessment that the state of corruption is worrying, if we have an assessment that the existing legal system is not responding well to that, if we are not satisfied with the size, number, etc. The verdict, it's not the law's problem. If we're not satisfied with the number of cases and total amounts seized illegally acquired, okay. The law predicts that. So it's not a law issue. We have – just a little, just a little bit – we have a system that is in charge of this state under the Constitution and the laws that we have to enforce these laws. And let's open up a debate about that system! Let's not run from it. So that means... the law enforcement agencies we have, here we can count them, yesterday we talked about it a lot. We've got the DA's office, we've got the courts. These are the bodies that exist in this country, in every normal state that works to enforce these laws. I'm not happy with the way, I'm not happy with the results of the whole system, I'm not going to tell one of them individually, so, but to make another agency now, I've already said what I think when I first spoke about the agency, about the law I think. To build another agency, to wash our consciences off ourselves, here we are fighting it, I don't think it's correct. I'm sorry there's no Mr. Lagumdžija. Let me just say, he's right no matter how much my esteemed colleague Džaferović... resented. This is the only thing you can say no to. But I'm nothing and that's fair. So we can look for time, etc., and talk, and we'll say no the day after tomorrow. This can only be refused, but I am in order to do a serious job, that all these institutions, the Council of Ministers, the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, here we have agreed to conduct a public debate on the Criminal Procedure Act, along with all these institutions and to see and through this, through public debate, whether there is a need for us to amend these laws that we have.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17644	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17645	Is there a need to... secure more efficient work, etc. With this agency, we certainly won't do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17646	Thank you. The Prodanović gave up. Right? Jovičić. Here you go, replica. Please stick to the time. After that, we'll consult with the club presidents to see how we proceed.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17647	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, 108 I often take the opportunity to give Mr. Bećirović credit as a young, serious politician.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17648	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17649	Mr. Bećirović will always say this is not on the agenda, but he will say it earlier. So then it gets a whole other dimension, but eventually it's going to say, well, it wasn't on the agenda, but what he was going to say and send a clear message, he already said. As far as I'm concerned, I'm asking you now not to make a mistake, if you haven't already made a statement, don't organise a conference tomorrow and say guilty SNSD and Dodik that they don't want this law, but the RS government has made the law. And in parliamentary procedure, don't make a mistake. And when you say, as long as Milorad Dodik is there! Come on, once you've done the poll yourself, so you see how much support that's given to his citizens, his peoples, and I don't know who. And not every time Milorad Dodik, Milorad Dodik. That's one thing. And, of course, the ones you mention, the agencies that make the estimates. So you know who Transparency International organization is? Ten of them gathered, opened websites of all possible international institutions, collected money. Who's behind them? Who's behind them, tell me? What kind of polls are they doing? What kind of assessment? What is the relevant survey, the institute, what are they doing? Here I am now going to say BiH is in 22 places by corruption. And someone's going to say 144. They're both data. Who's to determine and who's to determine what's corruption? Say it honestly, thieves. And if this were the right law, I would resign immediately today as MPs and run to be the director of this agency. And you know what kind of data I have? Considering earlier some ratings,... radio. I only wish I could do that and I would accept that if you had prepared a serious law. But this is no good. Who does this, what are the conditions, the laws, the obligations, what do I have to do, how do I work, who do I work with, who do I force? Give me these assignments, make the right law, I beg you who please be the director of this agency, and you will see how much BiH will have a budget. But you'll never make it, and then I lost my post, so let me as an MP...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17650	...a short cut shot...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17651	I just... wanted to tell Mr. Bećirović that English experiences are experiences that I am also willing to support, so, and the Englez have formed bodies for research and monitoring, and that is a big difference from the Agency that deals with taking away property and owning other people's property. So that's a big difference. I'm in favour of building an institution that will investigate and monitor, in this way we will certainly prevent... corruption. Be more convinced that we will prevent more than this way. But of course, we still have such institutions today. After all, we have a special department dealing with these issues within the SIPA. The other thing is how much it's done on this matter. That's what I was just talking about. But there is a department dealing with economic crime that can be dealt with and whose jurisdiction these issues are also. 109
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17652	Thank you. And here, in the end, Reverend Križanović in the form of a proposing to round this up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17653	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I want to thank the colleagues who participated in this debate today, speaking of the principles of this law. I also thank those who spoke of prejudices and visions in this law. For these colleagues who have spoken seriously about principles, I want to make some clarifications as soon as possible, and for these colleagues who have talked about prejudices and illusions, I really have nothing to say. If those in the proposing, one parliamentary party, see a party of neocommunism that wants to violate human rights, then I really don't have any controversy anymore. Then what I'm saying is that they have a problem with themselves, not with the SDP, right? What I want to stress again: we want this law, this agency, not by the law of confiscation of property, but by one mechanism, by an additional mechanism to fill the gap in the procedure of investigation, freezing, takeover, confiscation and management of illegally acquired property. Look at that in our legislation, it's missing. And that's the point. It has been pointed out several times in the law that the whole law is incorporated into the existing BiH legal system, relying on criminal law, criminal proceedings, the Law on Administrative Procedure, etc. Now, gentlemen, if we haven't read, if we've come to this session to discuss this law with predetermined views, then I really think this time that we've had today is lost. I fully respect a certain reserve of colleagues who say: whether it is a sensitive law, whether it can, whether it has the capacity of a political party to give it all good courage, formulate, fit, etc. To tell you the truth, I'd have a spare here, too. And I expected that today, because of the sensitivity of this whole thing, we're going to have a public debate that, first of all, we're going to have to look into this, is that all we want it to be. But here, instead, is the conclusion, I also appreciate this conclusion by the SDA to return it to the Council of Ministers, etc. Now, let me remind you, please, what this conclusion would mean and why the SDP did what it did. So, in 14.7.2004, four years now, discussing a proposal similar to that of this law, a conclusion has been reached in this House after a long debate that I will quote, and the conclusion has been reached on the proposal of my esteemed colleague, Šefik Džaferović. And, he says: The BiH Council of Ministers is in charge that in cooperation with expert teams from the country, (judgments, prosecutors and from the abroad of the Council of Europe, the European Parliament, etc.) conduct an analysis of the existing BiH legal system on the issue of ensuring forced confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts – here, just so I don’t... because I am quoting – the management of the seized property, so that in the event that it finds expertise, they indicate the need for additional normative regulation of this area, or propose a law in this area or propose supplementing existing laws. Correct conclusion. It wasn't any of it. 110 We here suggest that we make, here's the conclusion, I think we should bring back some new anti-corruption strategy. I remind you, in the last 10 years, we have three strategies that have treated organised crime and corruption. In those 10 years, we've been spinning, as we said, among the 50 countries with the worst condition in the world. So, no more, there's good policies, there's good strategies, there's good political commitment, but this is about one concrete mechanism, one particular body that needs to be done one specific job, my people. And we didn't make this up. This is what we've prescribed for the good part of the solution that exists in the world. I don't know, this won't be enough of course for those with prejudices about neocommunists with leather coats who want to steal other people's property. Please, where does it say here in the law to break into apartments? The Agency shall have the authority to enter the premises, enter, enter the premises where the books of business are located, etc. Isn't that what every tax administration has today? What are the special powers? If we're going to form an agency without authorization, then we don't even need to form what we need! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17654	Thank you. There is another replica of Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17655	Thank you very much. Thank you, colleague Križanović, for reading this conclusion from the 2004 session. I can't even remember now. ... So nothing has changed, so my relationship has remained the same. But don't let me be responsible and be responsible for this parliament which, of course, I didn't tell you, so I'm saying in the context of a full debate, which someone who was supposed to do the job didn't do the job. I now tell you, here, now let every month be asked from this day forward by the Council of Ministers of Parliament what they have done according to our conclusions. We are truly committed, I now consider after these two or three years, I believe that this institution is needed. I'm just afraid of making a mistake. You have, at the SDA Club, you'll certainly have... a conversation that will require that final analysis to come from where it should come from here to Parliament. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17656	Dear Ambassador Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17657	One little explanation not to give the wrong impression. Mr. Bećirović spoke about the practices of some more developed countries, which often should have been an example to us, and how to solve some problems and some of our issues, so he cited the example of Great Britain. So it's been said that, I don't know either, in one year, she had a 54 million-pound score. Well, let's say it's twice as much. When it compares to BiH, so by the number of inhabitants, and by the total GDP of Great Britain, so let's say it's approximately the same, so it's involved, or there's this crime, that would be about a million and some marks. And I don't think it's some kind of 111 envious efficiency. And here, I'll just say it very simply. So they have about $1,500 billion in total GDP, BiH 10 billion, means 150 times the difference. When it's divided, you get that number. What am I saying? The idea is very good, but I'm not convinced, and I don't think the majority here today, from this debate, is that this is a way that will yield significant results. Let's just say one thing. I don't know, I didn't check it, but I read it in a few newspapers these days. He says that in the Federation of BiH, the Tax Administration has established 220 million marks of some, I don't know, revenue evasion that needs to be realised now. Now you see how much that is, so 220 million marks have already been found, and the problem is how to charge it. Eh, what am I saying? What I'm saying is that there should be existing institutions that are also within the law, etc. The competent and authorised, responsible for implementing this major part, which is the subject of this law, that they should also do their job better, including, of course, courts and prosecutors, the police, so at all levels, police agencies, of course, that the effect would be much, much greater than the formation of one agency. But it is certain that everyone is trying to find ways to ensure an effective fight against crime and corruption. This, the proposal that went from the SDP, i.e. through this law, would probably have some result, but I am not convinced that this is a way of really calculating and significantly calculating with corruption, crime and especially how to subtract acquired property illegally, without a court, etc. I'm not going any further.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17658	No more reports. I'm closing the debate. And here's a proposal in the College to finish two more points of the agenda, so I have to ask the dom afterwards: whether we should continue or stop. Think about it until these two points of the agenda are over. We open the 21st point of the agenda: Ad. 21. Proposal for a framework law on secondary vocational education and training in BiH The Council of Ministers delivered the bill in the procedure in 21 March 2008. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on constitutional basis and principles on 28 March. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. I ask: Is there a need for a minister? There isn't. Is anyone there? Dear Ambassador Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17660	I'll be very brief. I'm... thinking that we have too many of these framework laws etc. However, when I read in the explanation that the minister hurried after 26.9 in order to implement point 13 of the priority programme from the European Partnership with BiH and read that: On the same day the law fell, I quote the argument, he referred the initiative to entity resolution 112 ministries for further work on this law, through the involvement of experts from the entity and the Ministry of Civil Affairs. So, I'm interested in who these experts are, who took part in the order of the Croatian people and for this reason I and my colleague from the HDZ 1990s will be restrained but we will propose one conclusion with this law, and it reads: The deadline for the submission of repairs or amendments to this law extends to 30 days. It's just that we can consult a little lower level, so we're not going to commit to this law right now, but to leave us a little bit more time to lower levels, because we can see that not all the levels that are in charge of education were on the expert team, and I think it would be good to meet this conclusion. Here, nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17661	Thank you. Is there anyone else? If not, Minister Nović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17662	I fully understand the question of Ambassador Zorić, but I want to say next. When it comes to the consultations held by this ministry, then Article 15. The BiH ministry law is specified that the Ministry of Civil Affairs plays a co-ordinated role with entity bodies in the fields of education, culture, science etc. Given that there is a Ministry of Education in the Federation and that there is a certain coordination at the level of the Federation, then it is expected that when the competent ministry receives such requests from this ministry that it simultaneously co-ordinates or consults within the canton, or county, and that after such opinions have been obtained, we get an opinion from the entity ministry. Of course, there's another question here now, but that's not a question to discuss here. We'll talk about it. It's not just about education, it's about sports, it's about culture, it's about almost all the other activities, and we're going to be forced to open this issue up these days along with the federal ministers, so we can come and there's no problem with that. But, at the same time, I want to say that the previous Law on secondary vocational education, which fell here for technical reasons, absolutely agreed and I have written of all and one cantonal minister of education in BiH and county, of course, and now only three, or four members, have been made aware, and these are the only changes in this law. And otherwise, this law is part of others, so reform laws in the field of education. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17663	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Raguž. Here you go. 113
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17664	Here, most of all, we can accept the explanation given by Mr Nović, as a resolute minister, but we insist on the conclusion just because of the reasons why we have information from the competent county, or cantonal ministries that coordination was not, when this law was being prepared, respected. And when we talk about co-ordination of the state with entity ministries, then you as a resolution minister at BiH level must respect the fact that when it comes to entity ministries that different structures and constitutional competences are in RS and the Federation when it comes to education. So, according to the Constitution, these are constitutional categories, not arbitrary, all legislative jurisdiction is at canton level. Therefore, any law for you to pass, you must do so... So your responsibility can't stop just at entity ministry level when we're talking about the Federation. This is extremely well-intentioned and it is not critical but essential, because our goal is to coordinate... a quality reform of education, and that can be done by those who pass laws based on framework law. Every canton, or county must pass its own law, not the Federation. Check out all the legal reforms so far concerning education, and that's what you're doing, and this means it's also in our interest to support reforms, you know that we've been constructive about all the above, and I think that this dimension has to be respected, and that's why it takes not 15 days but 30 days. I don't think 15 days means anything. We will be constructive and try to help with this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17665	Dear Ambassador Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17666	The president, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the Council of Ministers, in my agenda... (Croatian version of the text of the bill) does not have this word: indicative. I guess it's a technical mistake. And I didn't answer for it, but for a reason I absolutely accept and respect the arguments made here by my fellow MPs Zorić and Raguž, and I and the club I belong to and hold that they are justified and that there is a need for time to submit amendments from our usual Rules of Procedure, however, a little longer for this law. I won't take up any more of your time. I would like to say that, in any case, we will support the adoption of one such conclusion, in order to allow us to consider all possible ambiguities and the need to amend and supplement the proposed solutions in such a framework law on secondary vocational education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-03-0.u17667	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. 114 And, let's go to the 22nd item of the agenda: Ad. 22. Report by the Joint Commission on Efforts to reach an Agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH You've reached the Joint Commission's report. As you can see, the Commission has agreed on the same text of the law, by adopting two amendments. Does anyone need to comment on the report? If not, I'm closing the argument. So, I'd like to ask the representatives of the clubs to come here and try to arrange for the session to continue. /Agreement/
