ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16366	Dear MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 23rd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Members of the BiH Council, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations and representatives of certain NGOs were invited to attend the meeting. I thank them for their presence. There are 36 MPs present, no one has justified the absence, I expect the others to join us. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I hope there is no need to specifically explain the reasons for the delay in holding the 23rd session. In the notice you received and cited the basic reasons. In order to prepare for this session, we held on 13 March a session of the Kolegijum in an extended composition and agreed on the upcoming homes to propose the agenda of this session and also on the draft agenda of the 24th session of the House. For this 23rd session, we have proposed a somewhat shorter agenda to get a decision today on the draft law on police reform. Other points of the agenda have met the conditions for consideration and are in the agenda of the 24th session. I ask you to refrain from proposing changes and changes to the agenda of this session, so that we can immediately access the implementation of this agenda. You can present any proposals in the debate on the agenda of the 24th session, which will continue immediately after this. I would like to remind you before opening a debate on the agenda that on 22 February 2008, we have launched an initiative to set up a National Section of the Global Parliamentarians in the fight against corruption (GOPAC), a shortcut in BiH. And so far, we have not received a single application from the MPs to participate in the establishment of this section. The home of the people, to remind you, has already proposed its three members, so we expect MPs from the House of Representatives to apply for this. On the other hand, as you know in the procedure there are amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. Our Committee for Change and Amendment of the Rules of Procedure has informed us as the Kolegijum that so far there has been no proposal for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. I again urge it to be done as soon as possible, so that we can make a quality proposal. 2 And now, I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16367	I'll do it very briefly. So, I propose that today's session should include a point, i.e. a statement on the initiative that I took before two meetings at the House of Representatives, which refers to the adoption of the Anti-Corruption Strategy at the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. It would be good if, otherwise, when we put up with the initiatives, if it is not possible at the end of that point to make a statement, at least at the next session, we would say yes. Since the initiative has been delivered, explained etc. I don't think we should take any time today and we should be able to make a statement immediately about this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16368	I would ask you to refer this initiative to the next agenda, so for the next session, that we do not burden this agenda with it. I'll give you an answer about that initiative. If you insist, then we'll continue to discuss it, and we'll get an answer right away. Dear Ambassador Zorić, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16369	I'll be very brief. I would ask all my colleagues and colleagues to make this session and the next session and do it as quickly as possible. Namely, this is a big week and I am personally and colleague Raguž from the party, and I hope all the other believers, Catholics, agreed to work on the Big Thursday, but at least let's not exhaust ourselves with other debates. Let each of you express your club's position on every agenda point and thus congratulate us Easter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16370	Thank you. I missed it. If there are no more reports, I will conclude the debate on the agenda and I will conclude that the agenda of the 23rd session of the House of Representatives is as follows: 1. Minutes from 21st and 22nd session of the House of Representatives; 2nd. Parliamentary questions and answers; 3. Proposal for a law on the independent and supervisory bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, with a Joint Commission on Defence and Security report; 4. Proposal for a Law on the Directorate for the Coordination of Police Authorities and Authorities for Support to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Police Structure, with the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Report; 5. Proposal for a resolution on Bosnia and Herzegovina's readiness for NATO integration 6. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the governments of other SEECP participating countries, the United Nations Mission in Kosovo on behalf of the United Nations, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244, 3 b) of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the establishment of a Financial Co-operation Framework Programme, c) Other amendments and additions to the Agreement on Credit and Financing of 23.11.2004 between Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska and Kreditanstalf fur Wiederufbau – Frankfurt am Mein ''KfW' - Rehabilitation of urban water and sewers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. Ad.1. Minutes from the 21st and 22nd sessions You've got the records. If there is, I'm opening a debate. Dear Ambassador Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16372	Here's the name of the SDP MPs' club. I'd like to make a serious remark about this 22nd-session record. On page 4, where point 3 and point 4 are mentioned, and these two police laws apply, you will see that 26 MPs participated in the debate, and you have only one paragraph of what are, among other things, the essence of the discussion of three MPs, so I wonder what it is. Why the tweezers were taken out by these three MPs to explain their views, and not the other 26. So we suggest that today we not declare the minutes of the 22nd session but that we leave it for the next session, and that this is corrected. I think that's quite all right, especially since it's important things for BiH. Today or tomorrow someone will read these records, and when they see how it all goes, it doesn't make much sense, you'll admit it. For this reason, I propose that this record be completed in principle: either to draw the essence of all discussions from all 26 MPs, or to delete and the essence of the discussion as presented here by these three MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16373	Thank you. Is there anyone else related to the record of any remarks and suggestions? All I ask is that you submit your request in writing, it will be put to the vote. If not, we move to the second item of the agenda: Ad2. MPs' questions and answers Answers to the Council of Ministers were received by MPs: Niko Lozančić on two issues; Husein Nanić on two issues; Sadik Bahtić, Velimir Jukić, Azra Alajbegović, Sefer Halilović on the issue at the 18th session; Husein Nanić and Selim Bešlagić on the Council of Ministers on Two Questions; Lazar Prodanović, Sadik Bahtić, Selim Bešlagić, Velimir Jukić Sead Jamakosmanović, Azra Alajbegović on Two Questions; Šemsudin Mehmedović on Two Questions; Rifat Dolić on Three Questions; Denis 4 Bećirović on Two Questions; Savo Erić, Slavko Matić, Remzija Kadrić on the Council of Ministers on 20th Session; Sead Jamakosmanović from the Ministry of Natural Affairs Asked on the 21s of Foreign Affairs of Foreign Affairs; Lazarović's on the Foreign Affairs of Foreign Affairs of Foreign Affairs of Foreign Affairs of Foreign Affairs of the Ministers on the Governments and the Governments on the Ministers, on the Governments on the Governments of the Governments of 21s, on the Councils of the Ministers of the Ministers. I'm opening a debate. Answers first or comments to answers. Rifat Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16375	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I, as you said, have received an answer to three parliamentary questions. I am not satisfied with the Council of Ministers' response to the question of the Minister of Defence, which concerns the behaviour of the Department of Defence in the Great Claudium. I cannot accept that the Minister of Defense in the Hierarchy has no authority over the Department of Defense in the Great Claudius. Since this is an important issue, I would ask that my parliamentary question be asked at the 20th session, as of 16 January, repeat and deliver to the defence minister with my remarks. With answers to other questions, I am pleased and grateful for the answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16376	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16377	I've got an answer to two questions. When asked about the ratification of the agreement with Slovenia, I am pleased and I would ask only the Council of Ministers, or Minister Alkalaj, to make every effort to make this promise standing here try to be realized in the first quarter. It means that the Slovenian Parliament has ratified this agreement because it is the demands of a large number of our citizens. On the second question I asked about the continuation of the Roman Way, I am not satisfied because I am responsible there is no money to continue on this because I simply don't think that we can leave our citizens alone because we didn't foresee money in Budget, so I would ask that my question be repeated, that a good answer for these things is given.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16378	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Nanić. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16379	Mr. Chairman, I have received an answer to the asked parliamentary question at the 19th session, which concerns the problem of returning to work for people who have illegally lost their jobs in the municipality of Duvno, today's Tomislav-City. I got an answer that's got everything in it, but there's no answer to my specific question that was clear, with specific data, with a specific place. I received a letter on procedures, on laws, on members, on international conventions, etc. However, I really cannot see from the answer that the ministry and the competent institutions are at all familiar with the problem, that they have done anything to obtain information from the field, and that the Ombdusmen report has not been read with conclusions on the working-law status of people who have illegally lost their jobs. And in that sense, I am renewing the question, the same question, and I ask the minister of the competent ministry to make it clear to me on specific issues, meaning for a specific place, for a specific number of delivery answers on this issue that I have asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16380	Thank you. If it's gone, it's gone. Ahmetović, pa Jukići, pa Seferović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16381	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, so I have one question for the Council of Ministers who is a proposal for these.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16382	Is that a new one or an answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16383	New, new.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16384	Yeah, is there anyone else to answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16385	Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16386	Jukić. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16387	Here I thank the Council of Ministers for the answer I haven't waited very long for. The question was: Why is BiH not a member of the World Customs Organisation and what is the Council of Ministers doing to join BiH in this organisation? I think my question made sense because I realized from the answer that the Council of Ministers had failed to do this long ago and that there was a need to do this and that the activities had now been taken to finish this job, I expect within a very short period of time, of which we will have safe benefits, especially the Directorate for indirect taxation. And otherwise, to introduce a little more order and information in the way and control of the entry of goods into BiH, as well as exits if they are needed. So here's another thank you and I think the question was useful, but it would be even better if it were done without this question being asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16388	Next in line: so let's go Halilović, Prodanović, Jamakosmanović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16389	Mr. Chairman, dear guests, fellow MPs, you remember that in three or four times I asked the question of the Directorate for indirect taxation, or to Mr. Kemal Čaušević, and with my question, I submitted evidence that the budget of the BiH state was damaged by about 5 to 6 million KM based on Turkish goods smuggling. In addition to these questions, I also provided a reply from the customs authorities of the Republic of Turkey that the euro 1, which should be used for the release from customs, forgeries and, of course, with all four attempts by Mr Kemal Čaušević and the Directorate for Direct Taxation, were made mad. I asked them about pears, and they told me about apples and they didn't answer anything. When I was not satisfied with these answers and, unfortunately, although most of the members of the Council of Ministers sit here, although these records are available, I hope, both the SIPAs and the law enforcement bodies in BiH, of course no one has taken any action, and on this example I see that there is a band between crime and certain people sitting in the institutions of the government, and I have addressed the Foreign Trade Ministry with the question: Have we also received an act of the BiH Direct Taxation Authority since 30.12.2005 and what have they taken on this issue? And I got an amazing answer. I remind you once again, although with my question I have provided evidence that the euro 1 for the listed goods is a counterfeit, the foreign trade ministry gentlemen answer me that they have tried to get on several occasions... in several questions tried to get an answer whether or not it is a counterfeit and, they say, they have not yet received it. So, with the question I'm not satisfied with, and I'm going to be persistent no matter how much it pisses anyone off here in this room, and no matter how much it bothers anyone, because I think this is an obvious example of crime between 5 and 6 million marks for which certain circles and administrations of indirect taxation and in these other institutions, which should pursue crime, are silent. Thank you very much. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16390	Dear Ambassador Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16391	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, respected ministers, media representatives, I received answers from the Council of Ministers on my question at the 20th and 21st session of the House of Representatives, and I must say, I thank the Council of Ministers first and foremost for the effective answers. I have no objection to the answers, but I have a comment on the issue of visiting BiH presidency members to Serbia. I, I would love to see this statement by the Council of Ministers on the basis of an established response at the Council of Ministers meeting that members of the Bureau will visit the Republic of Serbia in line with a visit to the Council of State Council. However, I am concerned and surprised and I am not convinced that this will happen especially if today's press release is accurate, that the BiH presidency chairman urged BiH citizens to avoid travel to Serbia. It is unlikely that the chairman of the presidency will visit the Republic of Serbia if he tells his citizens, BiH, to avoid visiting Serbia. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16392	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jamakosmanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16393	The chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I received two answers. First response from the Commission for the revision of citizenship. With that answer, I'm pleased. The foreign ministry's response is also large but I am partially satisfied with it, because the answer remains an open question, i.e. there are no indications of how to resolve ambassadors who come after the end of the term or who come for sick leave. It is clear that the ministry has no answer to these questions, and that is what I am not satisfied with. I recommend that the ministry dedicate itself to this in order to preserve the dignity of these people, as well as the reputation of the BiH state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16394	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted all reactions to our answers. Is it a reaction or a new question? Commentary, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16395	So I've been asking a lot of questions lately. I expect answers. Not a single question I've been asking lately, I don't have an answer. Therefore, I expect an answer to those to whom I have asked the question. I'm pleased in advance with any answer. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16396	Thank you. Is it a comment or is it a new question? Comment on the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16397	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, chairman, media gentlemen, NGOs, at the second session, I have asked a question and I will ask as long as I am an MP in this House. I have received, indeed, a response from many BiH institutions, ministries, but I am not looking for a systematization of jobs. I'm looking for a name and a last name that sits there, from the director to the maid. Name and last name, because as a clagworth, I set an example in diplomacy that entire families work in diplomacy as if they were genetically predetermined that everyone has a reference to do so. So is it a state secret that no one alive knows in this country how much there is in the administration of this country of employees? But that's why you have on the front page today and let the media write what they want, 6,000 marks of pay. And that's the main topic today. That is why I am asking and insisting that for every institution that is state-level, the name of employees is delivered to me, because I repeat, it is not a state-class secret, and that applies to all agencies, ministries, and this Parliament, and only the Professional Service of this Parliament has provided me with information that I am pleased with. The rest of it, I won't be satisfied until I get the right answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16398	Thank you. We have no more reactions and no more comments on the answers. The following MPs have come forward with new questions: Honourable MP Ahmetović, and Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16399	I apologize again for breaking in. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, therefore, I would like to ask one parliamentary question to the Council of Ministers, inspired by the fact that lately, I have been reading from the media, that for certain people from Srebrenica there is an indication that there are some kind of warrants behind them from Serbia. So my question is: Is it true and, if so, then how is it possible that, at the request of Serbia, the citizens of Srebrenica, the victims of genocide, are being persecuted, and are trying to bring to justice in Belgrade? What does the Council of Ministers and this state generally do to protect its citizens? I therefore request a sharp protest from this country to all major international institutions from the UN, the European Commission, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16400	Thank you. 9 I will now read the order how I managed to record. So, Ahmetović, Lagumdžija, Bahtić, Nanić, Bešlagić, Novaković, Križanović. Dear Ambassador Mehmedović next.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16401	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, I welcome you. I have one question for the College of the House of Representatives, i.e. the Joint College of both homes and the Council of Ministers, which contains 10 sub-questions. They're very short and I'll read them. On the occasion of a letter from the BiH Council of Ministers, the Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assemblys held in 19.2.2008 discussed problems concerning the appointment of the Director-General of the Regulatory Agency for Communications and took the view that it is necessary for the Agency's Council to respect the provisions of the Communications Act and to approach the implementation of the BiH Council's conclusion, which was adopted at the 24th session of the BiH Council of Ministers, 27.9.7. My question is: On the basis of which members of the Rules of Procedure and the Communication Act, the position of the Joint College of both homes is based? Furthermore, how was it even possible to bring such an important attitude without a representative of a nation? Third, why is it that the Joint College does not specify what the Council of the Agency did not respect the Communication Act? Is non-compliance with the laws of the BiH Council of Ministers, and to what extent is the conclusion reached in accordance with the Communication Law? Does the Communication Act even allow any intervention by the Council of Ministers in the selection procedure of the Director-General or are they excluded by RAC status as an independent regulatory body? Has the Council of Ministers considered whether the elected candidate general of the RAC meets the legal requirements? Why did the Council of Ministers consider the proposal for a decision if it was subsequently claimed that the material delivered was not complete? Why has it not followed the Rules of Procedure and the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, according to which incomplete materials are not even placed or removed from the agenda, with the deadline for completing them? Then, has the Council of Ministers of BiH concluded that it has exceeded the limits of its powers and usurped the legal powers of the Agency's Council, thereby violating the Communication Act? Is the position of the Joint College, which supports the Council of Ministers' conclusion, without prior establishment of its foundation and legality, tolerating the violation of the Law on Communications and Fundamental Principles of RAC Independence? Finally, is this treatment in line with the conclusions of the meeting on the monitoring of reform processes, which insists on the importance of preserving the status of RAC, which was particularly highlighted at the meeting held in 20.2.2008, at which the issue was considered as a special item of the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16402	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16403	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Chairman, in the last weeks, through the media, which, in my opinion, has otherwise lost some 7:0 to the judicial verdicts because of the lies about me, has once again launched a lie that during the war I, quote: I have been hitting the government's seal on the numbers of my fellow criminals and thus stealing sacred money with them for the needs of the country's defence, closed quote. Although I believe he was doing this recklessly, such writing is accompanied by my distinguished colleague in Parliament, leaving a shadow of doubt about the credibility of such lies. It surprised me, more so, that my colleague and himself as wartime commander of the Army of the Republic of BiH had problems, because he often said that there was little money in the army accounts, that the mains went through parallel private structures, after which they lost every lead. So here I am accused of using official government accounts as accounts of my own, quoting: comrades of criminals. Since I've already received confirmation through this House before that there have been false attacks on me as a coup, then that the prosecutions have not charged me with any crimes, and that I've been paying taxes on all receipts and dedicated housing loans and so forth, which some MPs have accused me of, here they are now getting, I want the public to know the full truth about so-called. the war accounts of the Government of the Republic of BiH, and especially those of anyone who binds to my name. I publicly called on the finance minister 10 days ago to fully inform the public about the fate of the BiH Government's account opened in the summer of 1992, or any accounts that relate to me personally, or me as the then Deputy Prime Minister. So, if it is true, unfortunately, Minister, Council of Ministers, Deputy, no one has called on that name so far, although I have made a public invitation to do so, and therefore I am taking the opportunity to, if it is true that I or anyone else was the authorising officer for any false accounts or abuse in the use of funds in the name of the government, I hereby urge the BiH Prosecutor's Office to carry out the investigation without delay and that the most severe penalties of whoever ever did so. For this reason, Mr. Chairman, in the form of a parliamentary matter, I am asking the Council of Ministers, or the Minister of Finance, now that I have seen here and the Minister of Security and from him to give full information about it. I'm sorry I can't ask that to the Minister of Civil Affairs, I believe he would do so in quality about whether the accounts, which the media has been calling or any bills from 1992 to today, are accounts of the BiH Government or Zlatko Lagumdžija and anyone who has abused them. I ask the answer to the question: Who and what needs did he open the accounts for, how much of whom did the funds lie on them, what and when were the funds used, and who were the paying orders in these accounts? Also, I ask you to answer: has this account or any account of this kind been held by a man who responds to the name of Zlatko Lagumdžija? If that's true, how did that happen? This question can be considered before Parliament by my powers as Council of Ministers, Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Security: to check anywhere in the country and in the world any account 11 under any indication that it may be under my name or anyone who has anything to do with me, if you need it. This is, in fact, the only way not only to remove new and old monster accusations from me, but also to further illuminate and learn the truth about the fate of state and private accounts used for, whether, holy money, is for the need of the country's defence. I believe that this issue, as well as the answer, will also help the first wartime commander of the Army of the Republic of BiH and today my fellow BiH MP to shed light on problems to which he himself insists. Mr. Chairman, I ask that the public be informed, to the utmost extent possible, in full and true, and, in order to avoid confusion, in addition to giving you information on the accounts which were the subject of the inscription and the statement on which I am forwarding this parliamentary question, so that you have something to start with. I'm thanking you. You'll get all this in writing, and photocopies of what I know and I have no doubt you'll find everything you need.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16404	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16405	.... I have two more questions. First question: I ask to be provided with the national structure of civil servants employed in BiH institutions, means the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, agencies, directors and all those financed from the Budget of BiH. Reason: I ask this question for reasons why, under the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, "the Official Messenger of BiH" No. 19/02, 35/03, 4/04, 26/04, 37/04, 48/05, 2/06 and 32/07, says the structure of civil servants in the state service reflects the national structure of the BiH population according to the latest census, and I am interested in whether it is true in practice. And the second issue, which I had not planned: I ask the Council of Ministers also to answer me is it true that the MP Zlatko Lagumdžija has given authority in the war to raise funds in the West and Europe, is there this seal and these powers and how much money has been collected at the expense? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16406	Thank you. So we have the order: Honourable MP Nanić, Bešlagić, Novaković, Križanović, Rajilić, Jukić, Dolić. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16407	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members. I would like to ask the BiH Council of Ministers one parliamentary question from the Ministry of Transport and Liaison today, and this is the next. The means of information can be found out about the activities led by the Council of Ministers, entity governments on the construction of road infrastructure, i.e. highways to BiH. Part of BiH territory, i.e. Unsko-Sanski and Lebanon Canton, in all these plans and not exist, so the plans of the Federation government end with donji Vakuf or, at best, with the Jajce and the plans of the RS government with Prijedor. As an MP from that constituency, I must really express my dissent with such a way of working, which is due to the fact that the Kraišnik are closer to Vienna and here is Minhen lately, although it is three times further from Sarajevo. I ask the minister: Is it and how this part of BiH is planned, means the Un-San-San-Canton and the rest of the state in the plans run by the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16408	Thank you. I appeal to the MPs to ask questions as soon as possible, so that, in accordance with what we suggested at the beginning of this session, and given what Mr Zorić said, everyone gets the word. Dear Ambassador Bešlagić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16409	...my questions will be very brief: at what stage is the Act on the Protection of Animal Well-being. The entity governments and the Brcko District government have made their remarks on the bill. Comments on their proposals gave the Citizens' Association to prevent cruelty against animals... Sarajevo and delivered the law to them on 20 October 2007. So he's out of here in the process and now he's just looking for when to make a definitive decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16410	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16411	Gentlemen, the chairman, chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, colleagues, 24.6.2005 was officially and ceremonially opened the Donja Gradina border crossing, and until today, this transition is not in service for freight traffic, although the crossings around it are significantly burdened by freight traffic, traffic and long-term waiting. My question is: 13 When will the Lower Gradina border crossing be operational for freight traffic and what are the reasons why it has not been put into office so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16412	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16413	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will also have a very short question, referred to the Central Election Commission, or the Central Election Commission. Namely, by decision of the Commission of 17.1., the Implementation Manual was adopted, in fact, the Guidelines on the application of the Law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions were put out of effect. In this direction, the Commission's competence in implementing this law and entities is a little more precisely defined. So, the Law of Conflict of Interest. I ask the Central Election Commission to answer the following two short questions: 1. Has the Central Election Commission adopted a new manual for the application of this law? 2. Has the CEC removed the importance of this law and the monitoring of its application and at entity level by putting it out of effect? Here, I give up further explanation of the interest of these answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16414	Thank you. Dear Messenger Rajilić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16415	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, my question is similar to that of Mr. Novaković, and it concerns the categorization of the border crossings between the Republic of Croatia and BiH on the move of the City – Gradiška Legi. Here, as he has already said, there is a border crossing in Gradina which is not, where there has been no categorization of this border crossing, so it serves to cross only motor, passenger motor vehicles, and not freight traffic. And the second part of the question concerns the possibility of opening a border crossing at Martin Brod where we have a situation where pedestrians and people driving private cars go up to 25 km in one direction to cross the border crossing. In particular, it refers to those who have a country in the Republic of Croatia: they cannot process it, and they have means travel communication in the vicinity of this area around Martin Brod. Thank you very much. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16416	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16417	Here is an initiative from the BiH Council of Ministers. Therefore, it is necessary to speed up all activities in the drafting of the BiH Customs Tariff Law or amending and supplementing the existing Customs Tariff Act. Explanation: You shouldn't speak in person but here I will say a few words only. It is known that the current solution provides for the payment of customs duties on imports of recompromised raw materials and equipment which is unsustainable, and especially after the adoption of CEFTA, bringing our companies into an unequal position against competition in the environment. I think few of us here who did not get, at least once, have been asked by businesses, owners of businesses in BiH: Why in BiH we pay customs duties on imports of repromary and equipment, when we know what the general situation is, that there is great unemployment and that the government in BiH at all levels is responsible for creating an environment for better competitiveness of domestic companies. I think that this issue should be updated and that the Council of Ministers should really speed up all activities so that this law comes as soon as possible to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I hope with well-proposed solutions. If they are not good, of course, we are able through amendments to act and arrange so as to ensure a better position and better competitiveness of our businesses.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16418	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16419	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have two short parliamentary questions today. The first question is the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers: I would like information in writing on the height of the director's salary and the level of compensation of the president and members of the supervisory boards in institutions, agencies and other government institutions, over which the Council of Ministers and states has the authority. I am looking for this information for reasons that are rightly very often pointing to pay and receiving MPs, and it is well known that there are many more who should share fate more with the citizens of BiH in this country. The second question is the question of the Minister of Justice in the BiH Council: What are the number of pending cases in all BiH courts? What is their relevant and territorial structure, what is the relationship of this number of pending cases compared to the number of 15 pending cases five or six years ago, i.e. before the start of reforms in the BiH judiciary, and what is the intention of doing in order for the number of outstanding cases of BiH courts to be reduced to normal frameworks? The issue is very often imposed in talks with BiH citizens and institutions, in the context of the results of reforms carried out in BiH's judiciary, and increasingly frequent assessments that judicial reform has actually begun and ended with a reform or increase of salaries for judges and prosecutors, and that it is considered a major parameter for increasing the efficiency and independence of courts, judges and prosecutors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16420	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Suljkanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16421	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, I have a brief question addressed to the Council of Ministers. The question is, at what stage is the creation of the State Aid Act? The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is expected to be signed soon, will require an efficient and functional system of control and control of state aid to economic operators. Based on the European Partnership Decision of November 2005 as well as... With an action plan for its implementation, BiH was expected to prepare its legislation and set up an inventory of state aid during 2007. In fact, the legislation lays down framework rules for the introduction of a state aid control system and all levels of government will be included in this process. The inventory is a complete database of all state aid programmes in one country, and the law is marked 'State aid law' and brought by all countries in the environment, except Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16422	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16423	I have one parliamentary initiative and one question. The Parliament's initiative is: It aims to combat the use of hate language, racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, chauvinism and any other form of dissipation of intolerance and extremist views, and with the aim of preventing and spreading the darkest Nazi ideology and phenomena, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopts an initiative tasked by the Council of Ministers of BiH to also deliver to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH the text 'The Laws on the Prohibition of All 16 Neofastic Organisations and the Use of Their Symbols, including the ban on Ustatic and Chetnic Organisations, as well as those which rely on the Handar Division tradition'. The deadline for the legislative procedure is no later than six months from the date of adoption of that initiative. Reason: Many international documents speak of the need to prevent the actions of those forces that spread and spread hate speech. That is what the UN Charter, the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, concluded the World Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna on 25 June '93. in the year, the International Convention on the Elimination of all forms of racial discrimination adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1965, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In the Council of Europe's recommendation on hate speech, we also have conclusions on this. Also, very educational experiences are the practice of many Council of Europe countries in combating fascism and hate speech. I have stated here, of course, that I do not have time to explain now, what the Penal Code of Germany says about this, what the legislation of the United Kingdom says, how Fascism fights legislation in Italy, France, etc. Unfortunately, although the war in BiH ended in 1995, we still have daily phenomena of national, religious hatred and the insolence of one nation against another, which in today's conditions is a suitable ground for the growth and growth of fascist ideology and its implementation in practice. I believe that, as MPs in BiH's highest legislative body, we have a debt to the Bosnian Herzegovina public, and especially to generations that come to oppose attempts at falsifying history and to contribute to the construction of such a society that will rest on planetarily recognised anti-fascist values. And the recent past, marked by the appeal of fascism, gives us the right and obliges us to preserve peace in these areas, not to let fascism rise again and threaten BiH's future. I am delivering this initiative, with a six-page explanation, and I am asking, indeed, that at the next session of Parliament, not today, because it is technically inconclusive, but at the next session, this initiative comes on the agenda so that Parliament will plead on this initiative. And secondly, I have one parliamentary question. I have appointed him here for almost over a year, not only me but also a number of MPs in Parliament, and again today we ask him: Why is there no TV transmission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives when all of us, in the House of Representatives, have reached the conclusion that we are introducing this transfer? I think the time has come to finally say that it is fair that someone will not implement the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, whether someone is powerless to implement the conclusions of this highest legislative body, whether someone is possibly afraid of the public and citizens who would follow what their elected representatives are doing or has some fourth reason!? But it would be really finally time for Parliament to be manifested about what it said, and it came out five months ago that we wanted a direct TV broadcast.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16424	Thank you. 17 Dear Ambassador Halilović. Here you go. He's last reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16425	Mr. Chairman, I will ask two short questions, although here is one question partly asked by my colleague Bećirović. The first question is the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Dr Nikola Špirić, and my request is: To examine all accounts that are open to the name of the Republic of BiH which were: who were the signatories, how much money was collected and what was fate, that is, how was that money spent? Reason: I am informed from different sources that the amount of money collected is about $10 billion, and that a small amount of that money has reached the Republic of BiH, the then Republic of BiH, or that it has reached those to which it was intended. All the questions I had asked for years, both publicly and through the media, the answer of the money collectors was that they were obliged to account for donors, not BiH citizens whose name they were doing so. And I ask that this question be answered in detail, and I would be sorry if my colleague Lagumdžija understood this question, that my statement, at any personal level, but only on one principle level, to bring this issue to an end. The second question is the College, the chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, or the College of this Assembly: When will you finally ensure and realise the conclusion of this House, this House, to ensure direct TV transmission of these sessions? I don't think there's any explanation here, and I almost had an amazing explanation: there's no technical possibility! And there are technical opportunities to directly transfer the Kosovo Assembly, although you know, even though you knew that such a single gesture would cause at least most, i.e., in most BiH citizens dissent and dissension. So it can be ensured, there are technical assumptions to ensure a direct TV transmission of the Kosovo Assembly session, and there are no technical opportunities to ensure the direct TV transmission of this parliament. To me, this is one of the indicators and indicators that someone here is afraid of the public and for these reasons is being obstructed by the conclusion of this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16426	Mr. Živković's chairman intends to respond immediately.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16427	Since the Rules of Procedure can be answered immediately – me, it is addressed to the Kolegijum – let me remind you that countless letters have been sent to BHTV and we have been answered countless times that they do not have the technical ability to do so. Our intention was, according to the decision of our Commission on Transport and Communications, to organise a plenary session at which the work and 18 of the Management Board and the Steering College themselves will be here at the point of the agenda, which is to be concluded: if the MPs agree, that all will be replaced there and that the cameras will be placed here. So we in the College insist every time, and it's not up to the College that you can't secure television transmission here, so don't put the Kolegijuma on the burden that they're guilty because you don't provide direct transmission. It's our interest to do it, someone else is to blame. We are in no condition to replace these people, here Parliament will say in an open session what we are going to do next. Thank you. Here's a comment. If there is no comment, honourable Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16428	Mr. Chairman, here I am to join these issues against fascists, Nazis, various vermin, monster indictments and all that goes with it. And as my esteemed colleague Lagumdžija said, I am obliged to respond in some way against these mounted and monstrous indictments. haranga in Sarajevo, which goes from one part of the media, which goes below each level and has been present for a long time, I know that there is no intention of lighting certain events, but that certain people disqualify in every way possible, and that is not disputed. But we are people who do public work, and we are obliged to respond in a way that we can and can. Therefore, because of the media presentations of certain events – monstrous, monstrosistic, mounted – I will also be forced to ask for one answer in the political life of Prnjavor, and there is no question in BiH that I have no answer if I am allowed. But in things mounted where you don't have a chance to answer, of course anything is possible. Since Prnjavor and the birds on the branch know who committed the murder of Mile Nastić, who participated in it by name and last name, since we then as police officers left two kilos of documentation for such a murder, that we were then eliminated from the police, and that everyone knows that further developments were taking place in this case, and that someone at speed, installing such things, did not want to present the real facts, but normally I told him what was the goal: to bring up monstrous lies, I am obliged and obliged to ask the following question: Is it the state prosecutor's office, whether and when the charges for the murder of Nastić Mile in Prnjavor in 1995 and, if not, who were the investigative judge and prosecutor in that case, where they are today, and what is the reason for not raising the indictment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16429	Thank you. Lijanović. It's later, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16430	It's not later. It's regular. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16431	You didn't call regularly, you just called. I've read everything, but I won't make it impossible for anyone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16432	Here I am, and the discussion inspired me to ask a question. I'd like to ask the director of the public service. Is it possible to secure a session transfer between 10:00 and 4:00 a.m., if there's an announcement to hold a session seven days before, when we get the agenda? I think one such transmission is possible, because I've spoken to a lot of competent people, so, among other things, to BHRT, who claimed that it was not a problem for them at all, if the request was so formulated. If the request is formulated to transfer the sessions to a period that is not known how long it takes, in a period that is not known when it will be, then it is logical that they cannot implement it, because they cannot plan their programming scheme based on something that is present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16433	Thank you. We're closing the letter. Here's a comment. Comment on?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16434	About what, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16435	A comment on what?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16436	So you gave the answer to me, I think, and colleagues of Halilović about direct transmission. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16437	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16438	So in line -- here, not to call on the Rules of Procedure, not to extend the debate at all, therefore -- the essence of our intervention was to try again to underline that the BiH Parliament has reached a conclusion on TV transmission. And our key question was: Is the conclusion that this highest legislative body in the country has reached, can we implement the conclusions that we are making, or is your answer a sign and a conclusion that we have become powerless to implement what we conclude? 20
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16439	Dear Ambassador Halilović: Answer, raid the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16440	Well very brief commentary, I have listened very carefully to this answer of yours, I have read very carefully the answers I have received from you, because I have asked this question and I will ask it every time until the cameras are here in this room. And at a time when they are here, I think that here in the second row, where Mr. Sadović is sitting, sitting from the Management of TVBH, I asked them, knowing them from the previous period, I asked them, "Why aren't the sessions not being transferred, TV broadcasts the session of this Parliament?" They told me that the College of both homes asked them to pass on only when they had joint sessions, not these regular sessions. I do not go in or want to be here... an investigative authority, but I ask you to ensure, because finally this Parliament is asking, it is the Public Service, the founder of that television is this Parliament, most of the Management Board is asking this Parliament, and I think there are mechanisms to ensure that on this banal issue, I would say to the banal question, and an important issue for the citizens of BiH, we are no longer spending... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16441	In view of the Rules of Procedure, I, the one who responded, have later to say a reaction to your answer, to say, absolutely reject any intention that the Kolegijum of this House is imputing itself that it does not want to have a direct TV transmission and that it does not want to implement this decision at home and the conclusion that this transfer is getting married. We can only say that if you made it out that we only sent for plenary sessions to carry on that it's not true, that we sent each time, and for this session 15 days in advance. It is known that this session will be today and at this time, to be transmitted, but it is not being carried out. However, each time we will be imputed on the other side that we act on editorial policy, by saying that we determine who will be there, and therefore we expect Parliament here at the plenary session to say together with its conclusion whether it is okay and whether these people should be replaced, rather than to do so to the Kolegijum. For that reason, he reacted to the Kolegijum in such a way. Thank you. I'm closing this agenda point and we're moving to the third item of the agenda: ad. 3. Proposal for a law on independent and supervisory bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, with Joint Commission on Defence and Security report I remind you that we adopted this bill at the 22nd session in our first reading. On 13 March 2008, the Joint Commission for Defence and Security submitted a report on the proposal for a law that is negative. Therefore, the Commission did not adopt the law. 21 In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we are now discussing the Report of the Commission, I particularly stress, gentlemen, today we are discussing the Report of the Commission and I remind you that if we do not adopt the Report, this law has fallen. If we do not adopt the Report, the proposal for a law shall also be returned to the Commission in order to further consider and submit a new report within the time limit set by the House and by the guidelines set by the House. I am opening a debate on the Joint Commission's report on the draft law on the third item of the agenda. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16443	My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, even though I made my views and views of the Democratic People's Community on these two laws dealing with police reform in BiH during the debate in the first reading, I have needs. Although the chairman here emphasizes that this is about the Report, I need to repeat some of these views or better underline them. And it's all about the report again. This is necessary for the reason that a strange campaign is being conducted these days, and also lobbying on principle: If you are not with us, then you are against us; or worse, you are trying to execute the classification of parties and MPs by principle: good and bad guys, depending on which angle it is observed from. Personally, I am with no one, nor am I against whom the Democratic People's Community and I personally have no obligation to anyone, except to those who have chosen us, and let them judge or evaluate how we have carried out this obligation. In my understanding, the European path to BiH has no alternative and I see exclusively for BiH that light at the end of the tunnel. Of course, on our way to Europe, we must inevitably face a number of reforms that are difficult, unpleasant and very often painful. Because of the state it is in BiH and which is burdened with the divisions and mistrust of each species, the Democratic People's Community and I personally consider it unrealistic to expect ideal and final solutions in the first steps. Real and rational in this situation is to view reforms as a dynamic process of evolution of a solution, in which good solutions would be one step at a time, with the speed and length of steps dependent on mutual trust and the created environment for reform. Reforms in BiH cannot be carried out by blackmail, imposition or heavy rhetoric that we persistently use. It is known in practice that successful true reformists are at the first stage of the political sacrifice of the reform, but obviously the victims of this kind do not come into consideration, regardless of the... victims of this kind of payout. When it comes to concrete two police laws, which are before us today in shape, here, in some way, reports by the Joint Commission on Defence and Security, I think it would be a great shame and a mistake to exclude these laws from the parliamentary procedure, and thus to further extend the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU. In the first reading, and I am now saying, according to my reform achievements and the police segment in BiH, these laws are fog and one big nothing but, if that means nothing, a step for BiH towards Europe, and if at least a little improves the overall climate for reforms, we support nothing to give us the chance to do anything about it. The reason we need to make this joint step is that it objectively does not make the current situation worse in the area of police. By supporting these laws, we also send messages 22 that in this country we can at least agree on small things and that we are ready to compromise on our way to Europe. In the end, I personally think that by accepting the Joint Commission's report and eliminating these laws from the parliamentary procedure, they would give themselves another autogol on the European path. I think it's too high a price to pay for this country and its citizens. So, I will vote against the Joint Commission's report and thus contribute to keeping the laws in practice and being adopted in order for BiH to cross this first step in the long staircase of the European road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16444	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16445	Thank you. Dear Members of the College, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, please allow the short name of the Party for BiH MPs' Club to finally welcome that we have a first debate on the agenda, even if it is the Commission's report on one of the key reforms in BiH, the necessary reforms in BiH, not only because of the European path, but also because of the situation within BiH. I want to especially remind the importance of, of course, meeting the first steps in police reform. I stress, first steps, because the police reform we have to take care of is not exhausting with these two laws. This is just the beginning of a full reform which, of course, in the spirit of everything that has already been agreed before, which is a consensus, and of course in the spirit of what the engagement will be and in the future, we will have the opportunity to... talk about in the future. I mention this for reasons that do not seem too high to remind me of the enormous and growing price of BiH's delay in the European path and, of course, everything that this implies, in terms of internal reforms in BiH. And let me mention the particular importance of the fact that by respecting sometimes perhaps justifiable criticism as to why large reforms are being discussed outside the institutions of the system to finally welcome that we have the opportunity to, or, give ourselves a chance to talk about this... one big question on the very largest legislative body in BiH. In that sense, I want to mention that we need to be aware of both the enormous responsibilities, of course and the chances that BiH is given. However, if we could also remind ourselves in terms of both the procedures and the Rules of Procedure that, if we had accepted the Commission's report... which was delivered to us, we would have taken our chance... to talk, or possibly find an appropriate solution. In that sense, I would ask you all to give the Commission a chance to make a different, or new report, perhaps with some new argument in new circumstances, and to give ourselves a chance to talk, that is, to eventually make the first step, taking care of, of course, this growing price of delays both within the reforms within BiH and delays on the European path. 23 In this regard, I also remind you that the Party for BiH will reject the Commission's report and call on the Commission to reconsider the importance of these reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16446	Thank you. I see your colleagues have already noticed. In fact, we will unite the debate on the third and fourth points of the agenda, given that they are, and we will of course vote... especially on the laws. The following have been signed up by Honourable Ambassador Zorić, so Dokić, so Kalabić, Mitrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16447	I'll say it very briefly because I belong to a mixed club. So, I'm not going to speak for the club, because at the club we have different opinions under this law, I'm going to say the name of the HDZ Party 1990. We are to refuse such a report, because we are aware of the timing and importance of passing these laws. I will once say that I understand both those colleagues in the commission and here in Parliament who have a different opinion from me and who claim that reform is not enough. However, if Europe gives us a hand and says just move a little, and that is enough for us to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we need to take this step and then in the next steps, is it, to make better and stronger reforms. Thank you. Of course, my debate concerns both laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16448	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16449	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow Members and fellow Members and other guests at this meeting, I think we are given a unique opportunity to create conditions today and tomorrow that BiH can sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement in the coming month. We have all not once found that this is a priority over all priorities and what I would ask all MPs to, if at all possible, rise above their party's short-term interests and take care of the state's interests, because this is indeed state-interest number one. I would not only say that it is BiH's interest, but also regional interest, understand me however you want, and that signature will contribute to stabilising opportunities in the region, which are what they are, that we are not getting into this story now. I also have to say that we're really specific about a lot of things, so here's the situation... according to our relationship with this hand delivered from Brussels to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. All the countries that have gone through this process that we are going through, and what I'm about to tell you are not my words, but the people of Brussels. All countries have sought milder reception conditions, and only now I quote one of the officials: only BiH is looking for stricter conditions. I think we should think about what this means to us and whether this is what we're going to do with 24 of our issues that we're not able to solve through Brussels, Vašington and other major world metropolises. It is my call to all of us to turn to ourselves, our institutions and within these institutions to negotiate. I expect this parliament will reject the Commission's report within the next hour. And I am now asking one question, given that our Rules of Procedure is the way it is: Can we, if this entire Parliament, if I am looking at one decision in general now, if one decision is given to the assembly majority by the business procedure completely, can one commission block the process? So I ask you, and those who are opposed especially to realizing that it would be a very ugly message that one commission, one smaller part of Parliament, is blocking something that most of us have been behind. I want to remind you of the words of one... solemn statement, so to speak, which I hope we all went through at the wedding. One of the messages, I believe, of all the matriarchs is: don't let your relationships be regulated by the laws. And now it's my message: Let's not let this big question be regulated by the lack of our Rules of Procedure! And those who are against certain petty-partisan reasons, find ways to allow these laws to go through the commission and come before this parliament and get the assembly majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16450	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16451	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues, I will briefly, given that here is my colleague Dokić reiterated the good part of what I was going to say, and since the SNSD has said everything about this, that today's debate on the Commission's report, I think it is in BiH's interest at this time to reject such a report. The SNSD will do so and calls and others to refuse, preferably, with as many votes as possible, because I do not think there are MPs here who are against this story of police reform and who are against the European pathway.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16452	Thank you. Always, Reverend Bešlagić, only twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16453	I was thinking until yesterday, "What do you do?" But after the RS Assembly's decision that... practically all these laws don't transfer any powers to the state level, I'm just saying for myself, that this isn't a reform but, if the condition, you have a majority, you can vote. Therefore, yesterday's decision by the RS, or the RS Assembly, made me aware that we were playing these things here, and so I had to, do not convince me of BiH when you made a decision against BiH yesterday. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16454	Thank you. Dear Member Marković: incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16455	So I have to say the incorrect allegation is that the RS did not make a decision against BiH, and that is a serious and large statement you made in front of the public, because when representatives from RS entered the story of the police in BiH, we said at the beginning that we would not conduct any negotiations or agree anything that would mean abolishing the RS police and the RS MUP. So don't impute to the RS or RS politicians what isn't and I think it would be my turn to apologize for that statement you made.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16456	Thank you. Is it a replica or... a discussion? Replica: Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16457	Very short, esteemed colleague Bešlagić. The conclusion of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia was that there was no transfer of competence and no need to make such a decision. So that decision is neither for this nor against anyone else but that there is no transfer of jurisdiction and supports these laws. And I respect and welcome the SDP counterpart Bešlagić's decision to vote in favour of these laws. In essence, if these laws are passed and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is signed, the greatest success has been contributed by the SDP, because we have unanimously accepted their rapid path to European integration on the Commission for Communications and here in Parliament, and this is the first step towards this. So we'll congratulate them later on for a good estimate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16458	Dear Ambassador Mitrović, Hadži Jovan Mitrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16459	Gentlemen, the chairman, in the first reading of these two laws, I was against it. After the results of this report from this committee, I was convinced that there are indeed two... positions divided here. One to carry out a transfer of authority, and the other is simply to bring this to an end. Last night I had a chance to listen to the debate at the RS Assembly, I listened to the radio, and what I could see was that there was an Action Plan to implement the Mostar Declaration, and I think that this Action Plan was supposed to be found here in our hands, so we would see for ourselves what I said that neither law has any constitutional basis for entering and making the first step in the transfer of power. And that this is not the law, that these are not the laws that end the reform, that these are the laws that open the door to the signing of the agreement, but at the same time open the way for further final transfer of powers where I am convinced that this 26 Action Plan that has not been delivered here is the Action Plan that should lead to the end, in which entities are losing the truth of ministries and police structures, even though individuals are killing themselves in public to speak and convince that it is not, but in the end, they were alive and seen, it will happen. Here's the saying only and they complain and complain here some MPs who are against this law when they say, "Where the rope goes, let it go in June." Don't rush, the Action Plan will lead to this, the Ministry will go, the police will go, but I don't know how they'll explain to the public at the end when all this happens. I am for this report the way it is, which means I will be against both the law and the other because it is about transferring authority from entity to BiH level, which is both against the law and against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16460	I don't want to replicate, but I want to correct an incorrect assumption. That you received this material at the request of the SDP and the Council of Ministers... reacted 12.12.2007. All MPs received this material, so it was delivered to the MPs. Dear Ambassador, First Deputy Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16461	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, this is certainly a question that deserves this much attention from both us representatives and the entire Bosnian Herzegovina public, because this is what I have to say. After a long time today, we have a full quorum at the meeting of this house, an indication of the responsibility of all MPs and the desire to give this important issue their position and their judgment. By believing in that famous fact that all of us here have a certain view of this report of the Commission,...I don't want to convince anyone,... nor to change the view, nor that, I don't know,... does it change the view. I think we're in a position today to make two decisions. It's one thing to return the report to the Committee and put it in charge of giving him guidance on what needs to be done, to set a deadline for him until he has to do so, and another option is to accept the report from the Commission. The first option enables, opens the way for BiH to European integration, and that is the issue of which there is an undivided agreement – at least I think so and I am still so convinced – in this Parliamentary Assembly, but also outside this Parliamentary Assembly, among the citizens who gave us the mandate to represent them here. By believing that we will all take care of the interests of the citizens of BiH and that we will make our contribution to BiH as soon as possible to move towards the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, I must say that I do not doubt the outcome of this vote and I will be free to propose – firstly I will say that the normal HDZ Club will vote against the Report of this Commission – but I will also suggest that today the House of Representatives, because I believe that we will refuse this report to the large majority, and at the same time reach a conclusion that will oblige the Joint Defence and Security Commission to reconsider these two laws within 48 hours and deliver the urgent report to this home, 27 or home, but to this home first of all, so I assume the House of People, since it is the Joint Commission, and that, at the same time today, after that statement, we agree to conclude that the next session, at which we will consider this second report, also to this House, will be held in no more than 48 hours, that we would expect the Bohermuch, which we will be done by the Boher public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16462	Thank you. Dear Member Nanić has come to see you. Is there a need or next to the discussion is Novaković, so Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16463	And Jozo Križanović before me, as head of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16464	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16465	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, us and colleagues, I apologize, and fellow Members of Parliament. I told Azra this time I'd just tell my co-workers, and here we go again. First of all, it would be good if those who would vote against this report would not discuss much, because I have a feeling that then this majority might change. In fact, some discussions obviously do not go in favour of these intentions to support themselves. That's why it would be good if at least in these discussions today... the stories, whether there's jurisdiction or there's no transfer of jurisdiction, some will not support it because there isn't, some... won't because there's a transfer of jurisdiction. So it's obvious that in a different way she understands this problem and I'm suggesting here that at least we don't open up some questions again today. Of course,... some colleagues in the discussions, when they mention some petty interests, then they make me really need to elaborate seriously now, which is why we're here for this Commission report. In fact, we estimate that at the level of BiH first there are really plenty of security powers, to remind the SIPA, the State Border Service, the OSA. Some of them were transferred by the will of this parliament, some by the high representative's decisions, later confirmed by the will of this parliament. But in any case, there is indeed a large number of powers at BiH level in this area and using or proper use of these powers has been possible for a number of reasons why a fundamental police reform is needed, to avoid. I must say that experience also shows that these institutions have very often used that position and entered the jurisdiction of the entity institution. Namely, it is not rare for the BiH Prosecutor's Office to take individual cases or take over certain cases from the RS prosecutor's office, and then, accordingly, to order SIPA to conduct an investigation. And SIPA, not asking the entity's interior and police ministry, enters the jurisdiction of these institutions, doing a course investigation at the prosecution's request. 28 So these are not rare cases. And hence our fear that this will also happen with this Coordination Directorate. She's going to get a little bit into that sphere, too. That's why we have a reserve, a serious reserve on this issue. We believe, of course, that unlike representatives of the international community who think it is not possible to sign a Stabilisation Agreement without this, we think it is possible to sign an agreement, and that this issue is resolved by the next act that is coming, which is the most serious act that is waiting for us and where is the most serious job waiting for us, these are constitutional reforms. As we define through constitutional reforms all the issues, so we will define this question, and therefore this is the key reason why the SDS Club will support this report, although, of course, we absolutely understand people who are in power and who, in this way, voting against the Report, want to give another chance. I must say their level of responsibility and the level of responsibility of the SDS is quite different. Last time I spoke about this, I said, "We are not allowed to be responsible for this issue, because no one has communicated with us... on any basis in the phase of this reform." So we do not have that kind of responsibility, but we have responsibility, we have responsibility for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we have responsibility for the future of BiH and, of course, according to these levels of responsibility and the number of MPs, we will act accordingly.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16466	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Križanović, is that right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16467	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Chairman, the Council of Ministers, respected members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I think that today's debate on the proposal of these two laws, i.e. on a statement on the report of the committee responsible, will go beyond calling for reason, on responsibility, on the importance of the law and on the opportunity BiH has in connection with the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. It is clear that we are aware of the importance for BiH that has this signature of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I think every BiH citizen is aware of that, and here I don't think we need a warning. And the decision for or against has its meaning and its weight in it, you know. We are aware of this, and it is, bearing a certain burden, but I find it harder to submit this invitation to certain colleagues that we overcome our petty party interests and that in the interests of citizens, states and so on. We swallow it, and let's say this is about one important document, one police reform that needs BiH. Let me read it to you. This is a unique example, at least in my practice, when it comes to laws. After each draft law to provide a particular explanation of why this law is passed, and in the reasons for the adoption of this law, please, there is one sentence, one sentence: In order to fulfil the obligations necessary for paraphrasing and signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, starting with the commitment set out in the Mostar Declaration Action Plan,... and then lists... these bodies established by this law. Now that's all the reason, that's all, for the reasons why this law is passed. 29 First of all, I'd like to say something about this declaration. You see, I greatly appreciate when there is political responsibility and the willingness of political leaders to negotiate, talk, seek a solution, etc. But we made these agreements an institution, you know. So we produced one declaration, one binding document, one platform on which we need to build something now. To tell you the truth, that declaration has nothing to do with me, I haven't even read it, and I don't know where it is. And it's based on this whole law, the whole reason for this. Here's how it's done. Secondly, since there are no other arguments in the reasons for the adoption of this law, it is clear that this and the essence and contents of these laws is hollow, empty, irrational, seven bodies, please, the BiH institution should be formed at BiH level, which not only will nothing improve the functioning of police structures in BiH, on the contrary, will complicate their... functioning at state level, these two institutions of the Border Police and SIPA, because some five bodies will be established, please, or seven. Not to mention expenses. And therefore, if someone wants to convince us that it is the need of the state and that it is a reform and that it is a condition of signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, then the logical question is: Is it really a criterion that is enough for the EU to sign the agreement? Is that the EU standard for other reforms as well? If so, then we have met all the conditions, we can become a member of the EU. There's no problem. So it's about honesty that we did this to trick the EU into doing something, and we didn't do anything. The debate on the committee was all but content and essential. We've lost a lot of time, we've had a lot of amendments. And in those amendments, we had a very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, I don't know who counted 60, some 90 amendments, but none went through, you know. Article 4 of this Act on Independent Supervisory Authorities states: The Independent Committee has nine members, of which three Bošnjak, three Hrvat and three Srbin. When we wanted to fix this a little bit, this discriminatory provision, it didn't go through either. And we want to say to Europe, here we are also offering such laws that we bring direct discrimination, that is, violation of the Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. So, we think this is about imitation reform, that this is not any reform law, that it does nothing good for BiH, on the contrary, is also gathering such an expensive administration of the state and the entire administration of BiH at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16468	Thank you. First Deputy Chairman Lozančić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16469	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I just wanted to... to suggest to an esteemed colleague that we here today are not discussing neither the Mostar Declaration, nor the Action Plan, nor the metrics, not even this law. We are here today discussing the Report of our Joint Committee, so the Report, thank you, dear colleague, accepts the correction. So, we are discussing a report from the Joint Committee that is negative and, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, when our committee delivers a negative report, it is necessary to explain the reasons for which this report is negative. In this report, which 30 of you all have before you, our joint commission says there was no agreement on reasons either. So that's why I'm only talking about the report. We'll get to the law later. When we get to the law, then we'll see what we can do with them. But now we're talking about the report. This report isn't serious, so we don't know what they're refusing these laws. That's why they need to be returned, because they didn't do their job right, and they're gonna deliver a new report to us, so if they refuse the laws, they're gonna give us the reasons why they refused, and if they do, they're gonna tell us again why they accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16470	Wait a minute. The honourable Messenger Bahtić had first, so that you may gather, and so is his replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16471	Short replica. I had no intention of reporting at all, but I can't help but say these little friendly words: that these are hollow, empty working bodies. In my opinion, this is a hollow, empty story, a demagogue of colleagues of Križanović. He says he's not bound by the Mostar Declaration at all. Sir, read the Mostar Declaration, it says right here. You got it just like I did. It's not binding, he says, it's nothing good for BiH. So here's your Resolution here, which we adopted with 39 votes "for", means accelerated towards the EU. Not good for BiH Stabilisation and Association Agreement! It is a historic agreement for all BiH citizens. It's not good for you because you're not on that train. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16472	No throwing, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16473	It's not binding because there's no signature from your leader. Unfortunately, the people didn't give the law, they have six presidents, they signed me, and they bound me. Europe is just enough, it's just that little step, I greet them, I thank you. So they want us well, and here some in BiH are constantly spreading some hollow stories. If they're not here, nothing's wrong. It's good. Gentlemen, both this Parliament and this government are heading towards Europe, the train is going slowly, I hope the others will join. It would be good for you to understand what the Communist Party manifests are a little bit or less, so let the resolution here. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16474	Dear Ambassador Križanović: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16475	Of course, colleagues of Bahtić have nothing to rephrase. kolega'm not the first one to mention the Mostar Declaration here today. And I'm not the only one talking about reasons for and against today. And I don't know how this house could, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, give some new instructions to the commission to make a different opinion, unless there's a debate here. Now, you tell me what we need to discuss today, and you only referred to my discussion, and it seemed to me, and different discussions, which went into some provisions of the law. I am this member of the Commission, and I would like you to give me an instruction on how I will now, based on new knowledge from this House, have a different position on the Commission, unless 31 discussions are opened on some substance of the problem here. Or we'll just get the muscles back on the Commission, so that's how long we last! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16476	Here's the answer to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16477	Dear colleague Krićanoviću, I must say, I just... tried to quote the rules of the Rules of Procedure. So, I didn't do anything else. If you were a member of my party, I would personally give you directions in which direction you will go. But since I respect your right to have a completely different view from me, from my party, you will get guidance from where you should probably get it, is it? So, I'm only talking about the report here, so I'm going to repeat it so there's no false interpretations. I'm saying we're discussing the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16478	Don't throw it away, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16479	Wait a minute, wait a minute. So the report, which has no explanation according to the Rules of Procedure, is about the reasons for the rejection. That's what the Rules of Procedure says, it wasn't me. Maybe the Rules of Procedure isn't perfect. Speaking of Rules of Procedure, I don't think it's a good provision for the Rules of Procedure in which six MPs can make a decision before this home. So, I don't think that's a good provision, but about that... now it's not a subject. We have a Rules of Procedure that applies. That's all I'm talking about. So, if we're not going in... we don't have to agree at all, we don't have to think the same thing about this, we, look, I fully respect your will to... you behave again in the Committee as you think you should, but we need to explain the reasons for the rejection, and you and other members of the Committee. So it's not just you. So, all the members of the Committee, because they have to say we reject it because, because what you've been discussing, that's all I'm asking of the Commission. And I suggested that this House of Representatives ask the Commission as... a reason for a new report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16480	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Nikola Špirić, is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16481	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, media representatives, in fact, I wanted and answered the word and what I can do today is a request. The Council of Ministers has taken the challenge ahead of BiH, the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, seriously. As you can see, two months ago, the Council of Ministers worked patiently and created consensus where he was gone two months ago. We have asked this House for a month and a half about 20 legislative projects. Of them there are seven-eight system laws, which only half a year ago were impossible to believe would come into parliamentary procedure. 32 I simply cannot be surprised that we in BiH, and I said so in Brussels, do not have the strength to promote what we have done to our country within and outside BiH, and that is also the price that BiH citizens are paying. It's almost certainly not about radical steps. But what BiH must provide is the constant movement on the Euro-Atlantic path. The stage of standing, the long stand for BiH is not good. I want to ask you, too, I was on the committee that made the six-to-six decision to create another chance. We have received assignments in Brussels, so the law on police reform and to complete Aneks III and V regarding the technical round of negotiations in the trade area. I have to tell you, in seven days' time, the Council of Ministers, the Foreign Trade Ministry and the negotiating team have completed these annexes, the preliminary version, has come forward, as we were told Friday was the last deadline and confirmed on Monday. I have confirmation that this job has been done well and that the European Commission will give a positive view of this job that we have done. I ask you to create another chance for BiH, so return the report to the Commission, to try again to discuss whether there is any possibility of getting things closer through the amendments. If not, do not compromise the laws which mean the signature of the Agreement. It's very important for BiH, I regret that there are problems in the region. And I wish the countries of the region had signed the treaty, even though we are late. But it means a lot to BiH to get that new step. It means a lot to her citizens, and I'm asking you to consider this a minimum consensus that has occurred. For some small, for some great, but only possible at this stage that creates the permissive power of the state to succeed. So I ask you not to ruin this opportunity, to get out of the story of whether these are reforms, whether they are reforms. Yeah, this is what it was possible to get into this country. And it would be good to avoid putting ourselves in this phase of the impossible task ahead of BiH. Niko one can say whether, as further progress will take place, how many global, security processes will push the need for reform of all laws concerning the internal and external security of BiH. Can someone today say that they will remain unchanged, that they will remain on the level? Then that's how everyone would bring it back at the age of 28, when they're the most beautiful and powerful, says, "I'm not going to change any further, I want to stay like this for the rest of my life." We can't, gentlemen, we're all paying transition prices. And this is paying that price, so I'm asking you to create another chance. In fact, all you have to do today is make that decision, create another chance for the commission, and then two more days to talk. And to correct it a little bit, I'd say, a shot of BiH being created in Brussels these days, whether we're getting up or not. What I ask you, when the law comes from the Council of Ministers, is yours to show that they are the property of BiH. And it's a new message to be sent by the Parlement. And I would ask you, if successfully and hopefully we will, to finish this job, to hold a plenary session that you will ask Brisel and the European Commission that we are aware of the challenges, that we will keep working on them and ask them to sign the Agreement. For me, that would be a good move in which no one would lose. We'd all get in BiH. Thank you very much. Once again I pray to be created... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16482	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija next for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16483	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Špirić for having made a very clear and precise appeal for this 33-seat Council of Ministers. I'm glad the deputy didn't replicate him right away, which means you really have a chance to succeed in this unique. Given that the Report is about......, since we know very well that today by discussing the Report it seems that we have begun to discuss whether or not we are going to Europe, let us still discuss the report as a report on police reform today, and then to say a few words about how it is going and whether it can be like this, is it better to go to Europe somehow than on the basis of this report. I'm not bound by the Mostar Declaration. He's binding on whoever signed it. It is a small problem that does not now oblige all those who signed a coalition agreement but, then, a joint statement by political party leaders regarding the implementation of police reform offered on 6 March last year, here is a year and 10 days behind us. In the Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany, among other things, it was said: shvatati that police reform is an important aspect on BiH's way to Europe and that the Police Reform Plan Agreement is a precondition for paraphrasing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and wishing Mr. Ren to come on 16 March, wanting to meet his wishes, which may have coincided with our,.... the signed parties accept the final Report of the Police Reform Directorate. It will be the basis for further work on details, especially regarding the organisation of local police. What it is, I'm sorry Mr. Špirić didn't speak like this at the time. Sign, Mr. Dodik, Tihić, Silajdžić, Čović, Ljubić, Ivanić! That's when... it wasn't supposed to appeal to me and to Mr. Bosić, it was enough for these six people to sign. We didn't hear an appeal then to accept this, a report from the Police Reform Directorate that, when they told us that, about paraphrasing. Here we have a paraphrasing behind us. So what's drama then? And it's not... accepted this. A few months after that, after it collapsed, two key men were found in Washington to reform the police according to the international community's assessments, as well as the good part of the local public. In May 2007 in State de Partment, the bomb was missing. Boba was also missing constitutional reforms, that we had police reform, that we had a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, that we had a calming political situation. Boba was missing. As this March's refusal primarily by Dodik, this Mayan refused Silajdžić. Then came September 2007. The OHR Protocol of Miroslav Lajčak and OHR, with the full support of America, Europe and all living, famous Protocol. He says: The EU's first principle will be satisfied that local police authorities will have the status of administrative organisation within the Ministry of Security. In addition, there will be a local police area covering Srebrenica territory, in brackets, that is the EU's third principle. So then, he says: The national representation of all police structures will be determined according to the '91 census. So he says: In order to eliminate political interference in the operational work of police within the framework of the police structure, the Independent Committee, the Police Committee, the Office of Appeals, with all the powers for all police structures in BiH, is established. By the way, these are the SDP amendments that are a minimum attempt to preserve this Parliament's dignity, and Bog, and the EU, as time has gone by. Then: form a Center for Criminal and Technical Arts. Looks like it's still going to be in these laws, you get three microscopes and four computers connected to the local network. Four, why? One in the state, one in one entity, the other in the second and the fourth in Brcko, will be seen for the others. Then: The Centre for the Education of Staff on Police Affairs which will... as an administrative organisation at the Ministry of Civil Affairs. Then: Police Support Agency that will have staff and legal... for procurement, for IT communications and databases. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] First of all, I'm not reading to you, I'm talking to you. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16484	Wait a minute, just a little quiet.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16485	So what do you want me to say out of my head now, huh? Here, I'll take it from my head. Here's the lady who doesn't like it when it's read. And then it's said that I'm not reading, but from my head, since we all know it, we're repeating so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16486	Wait a minute, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16487	That: funding will be realised from a single budget at the level of BiH institutions. The EU's first principle. Then, according to EU principles, all legislative powers... and political supervision for all police bodies will be arranged exclusively within the framework of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Security. Then, the second principle, no political interference and, ultimately, September 30th, this government will sign, watch out, six of these parties. And then by December 15th, cantons and the Federation will be transferred to jurisdiction, according to this, and that on February 15th, the Parliamentary Assembly will adopt everything that stands before us today. We commit to adopt what we needed on February 15, 2008, that we will adopt a year after a new constitution is created that doesn't really know when it's going to be done, and, as things have started, at this rate, it won't be done at all. Then we came to a very simple situation. That every day we regret what we refused yesterday, because we were little. This is Lajcak's proposal, an explanation, an esteemed colleague, why we advocate accepting the Commission's report, to stick these police laws with their feet.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16488	Wait a minute, please let us listen to each other. You have a chance at a replica. Whoever wants to replicate, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16489	What are the laws... Doctor, can I?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16490	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16491	Eh, thank you. Let's remind ourselves where we are. Why are we against this law? Because, gentlemen, this is not the end, this is not the beginning, as you say police reform, this means the end of police reform. The adoption of these laws is the end of the police, and, you know, your party president in Brussels told people that, and that's what you should say. Here is the deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Security, so the leader of the most important, obviously, parties in this country said, "When we adopt this, don't call me around that police anymore." It's done, it's over. So, this is the end of police reform and we are 35 because we don't want to stay this way, we don't want 100% legalizing the existing state, 100% legalizing police inefficiency, we don't want to legalize that there's no single legislation, a single Budget, we don't want to legalize that there's still political control, and in the end, to be very clear, as it says here, these guys get experts for Europe, famous Evropljanin; when you see it, you see it as a Evropljanin and when it talks, you're surprised that we're not, which we're not earlier. I guess if people thought we were all like this, we'd be in Europe a long time ago. But, well, people don't recognize Evropljanin like this, so what do we do? I have been in the last few days, that's what I want to say in Parliament, everyone who is relevant in the international community here has called me to convince me of only one thing: can at least Jozo Križanović not come to the next one, which you already have scheduled, a session of the Commission and enough of you, we have a majority in Parliament, and we don't have a majority in the Commission. Not to mention what people were supposed to call me from Brussels and other important cities. So I told everyone, don't call me, you don't need to call me. If there is strength in us, we will be there and we will be there to the end against this on the Commission, in Parliament, wherever we can because we will not, and the best answer would be this Parliament, and that is our proposal to actually say the EU: don't make fools of us. You've got us a five-foot flyer to jump over, then you're down to three, then two, then a meter, then five cents, and now you say hey skip, you get a medal that you're a world recordman. There's no police reform here. We should say nicely to the EU: Gentlemen, don't make fools of us. We don't want police reform like this because this isn't police reform. Give us your signature! I guarantee you, here in Parliament I say, if we accept this, we'll end up reforming the police for the vaccine, these people who decide today, if we don't accept it, and we'll get some agreement that doesn't mean we're moving on. If you refuse this and tell the EU we do not want to be made fools and your credibility kept, I guarantee you that on May 12th BiH would be closer to the EU than to accept this, May 12th. Whatever results are in Serbia! If he beats Nikolić and the radicals, for one reason he'll take us to Europe, he'll make himself move forward faster. If Tadić wins, it will be for other reasons.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16492	Please, time, time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16493	So, let me finish, Mr. Chairman. We are in favour of rejecting these laws and making clear the EU's proposal to do what needs to be done and not to lie here. Today, there are a lot of right-wing forces in the EU that offer us a European perspective, and left-wing European forces are asking the entire region to enter the package forward. And if you think this police reform will make us closer to the EU or further, you're wrong. It will only make us this kind of adoption of the police further in real reforms in this country, and no closer to Europe either. And that's why we're against it and we're going to fight until the last moment as long as we can in the institutions of this state, in the institutions of this system, and also, Mr. Chairman, everyone threatens us. If it's not like this, it's gonna be white. It'll be white, and we'll be in that white in defense of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16494	Wait a minute. Let's take it in a row. The replicas were signed up: Ambassadors Jovičić, Kalabić, Ajanović and Bahtić, respectively. Here you go. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16495	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, everything has been here more and of course you from the presidency allow it as Democrats and that's fine. Anyway, about the Commission's report? If this were a one-national country, all of this Mr. Lagumdžija would have accepted, and there are no two entities here, so constitutional structures defined in another way. But since this is the only multiethnic party that is always so represented in this country, people have the right to say it, but, fortunately, they have no right to say anything on behalf of the RS. So here you'll hear the story of how the president of the strongest party said it in Brussels. I'm proud of what he said, but I'm also proud that we're on that path, as you said, Mr. Chairman, as vice president, and all of what we're saying here and the chairman, we're going to have to adapt on that path to some new challenges and we can't nail this. So the fundamental question is: will this commission stop BiH from entering the Stabilisation Agreement? That's the point. Will this commission gain such importance and reduce the authority of this House of Representatives and of all other competent institutions so that we can go that way. So, Mr. Lagumdžija, I've told you countless times, undeniably, you're a very visceral politician, wise, open, but, please, fight and don't threaten anyone. There's too much white in this country at every turn. Here, as pragmatic people, let's avoid any whiteness and let's accept at this point as realistic and as possible. What's the alternative if we don't get into these processes? Well, when these legal projects were in the first reading, then I was talking and I said maybe it's against the constitution, maybe this is it, but we have to compromise what's possible. I'd like a lot of things. There's no such thing, but it's not the opposite of wanting to, looking for initiatives, setting these-ones up. What's real and pragmatic? It is realistic that we reject this committee's report, give them the opportunity to explain it in another way, and that this Parliament accepts these legal projects as soon as possible and that we say, here, evropo, take us in. I am proud that Europe does not make most of the people fools and most of the representatives in this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16496	Replica: Three minutes, watch out!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16497	Is it over? Okay, I'll get back to you on the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16498	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16499	Here, although we have accepted the suggestion that we will try not to conduct a debate about the Commission's report, it is unnecessary, we will have the opportunity to conduct a debate when, I hope, the laws come back, when we discuss the essence. However, a distinguished colleague of Lagumdžija has expressed a number of views, showing all the misfortunes of this country, as someone finds himself upstairs, and in the next situation down, tomorrow left, the day after tomorrow, on the right, and we have what we have. The position of the Serbian Radical Party in RS is that nothing should be done here, that elections in Serbia should wait. I also heard from Mr. Lagumdžija today. BiH should also remain silent and wait for Serbia to decide 37 in the election. If we had said this should be done today, some would have come out of the room, because we repeated here that Serbia, the elections and the rest, had nothing to do with BiH. Did anyone make fools of us when we voted last time for the SDP Resolution on the European Way? I think some have it on benches. What does that mean, am I being deceived, and what it meant to me to vote? On the European road, they've come on the road, now let's go for a trip. We have had and we have all accepted in our heart, because in all transition countries and all those who have spoken with the EU there was an unwritten rule that opposition and position are together on this road, that this is the only thing in all the countries where they have common language and about which there was not much dilemma and controversy, is just us. Every question is not asked if my political skin is at stake, and the country and the states and the people and everything, I'm not going out of my trenches, so what happens? Well just in any case, it's quite clear here. When we discussed the Rules of Procedure here, we were killed here by the SDP by a story that we should not be allowed to block Parliament. That no mechanism in the Rules of Procedure should stand to block the work of state institutions, that no group, or even the people, have the right to block Parliament. We have come to a situation, let's say, that right now, at all costs, insists that, let's say, the Commission of this Parliament, that's the situation. It's probably someone wishing there was some measure of others, but I'm certainly not going to suggest them. The commission has legitimately elected a member of the SDP in front of the opposition and some other people, but the fact is that we have a situation now that we have a majority, and that we have the same committee of six people who are thus, in fact, blocking it. So she doesn't contribute. She doesn't bring anything. She doesn't change things in any other direction at all. We want it to get... She's nothing now, she's standing simply in that place where the blockade is strongest and doesn't solve this situation. Whatever request it is to resolve it, in any direction. And this, as Mr. Lozančić said earlier, we insisted and then on the committee, so there must be a decision. I don't think there's any need, we know each other too well, that we're walking into these kinds of traps to talk like this. We felt that they all had their opinions, we didn't insist that we were now harassing ourselves here on that this is too well-known a thing, that we would now exhaust ourselves and convince each other of certain things, even though I think we're minors today on a technical matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16500	Dear Ambassador Ajanović: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16501	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I will be very brief. Mr Lagumdžija should be as a longtime MP to learn one basic thing in politics, which is every time we come to a crossroads and sometimes we go the wrong way, but we can never go back to that first start again. It's the basis of politics. So he gave us information that something was much better than this, but unfortunately, that neither this Parliament nor this... debate can return. Another thing he has to learn as a politician, which is that everything flows and everything changes. That's actually a long time ago he should have learned... and I believe he learned. And the third other thing I want to say is, I want to say another third thing. In this same room, in this same Parliament, maybe 17 years ago there were people on certain discussions that said: you will never have a foreign minister, you will never be independent, you will never be a state, you will never be this, so time has shown that these people were wrong. So, here, most of the SDP people, although they said they would vote against the law, said the Commission's report should be rejected, because if 38 of the SDP gentlemen who discussed that no amendments had been adopted, they wanted nothing to be discussed, that means the Commission did not do the job properly. Therefore, here, as far as I'm concerned, I will support this position of the Party for BiH, which means I will vote against the Commission's Report, which I don't think is good and is not good, is not by the ossuaries that need to be, and the third thing, I have already said that in previous discussions, these laws should be highlighted by an amendment to some, it doesn't matter as soon as this is not the end of the reform, that the reform will continue to run and will go, whether in accordance with the Constitution or not, it will certainly go, and the Constitution will be adopted. Whether we have brought it or some other people behind us, but it will surely be brought one day, and this country will certainly become, I am sure, one country that will be a sustainable and European state, which should be, and that is not the same in Europe in the last car and in the last one. I think if these laws, whether they're right or wrong, we can discuss it, time will tell. But if we get into Europe with these laws, we've taken one big step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16502	Thank you. Wait a minute, please. I would like to warn all MPs, on the back of what we agreed at the beginning, not to fall into the traps of replicas concerning everything and everything, to finish this session as soon as possible, because I have the impression that with this number of replicas that have now been reported, we will withdraw this session by the end of this day, and then we will only have to start a new one the next day. I ask you that anyone who doesn't have the need to replicate his restraint, let us finish this session as soon as possible. I said it at first, and I said it a few times, and I ask the MPs once again to behave like that if they can. The next for replica is Ambassador Bahtić, and then Mr Lagumdžija, probably the answer to all the replicas. This is another replica: Honorable Ambassador Bahtić, another replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16503	Since my colleague Lagumdžija indirectly called me, I will answer him directly. I don't want anything around. He obviously thinks this is some kind of central committee, so he can read everyone's lessons. He says why we're not in Europe, he's alluding to me. We are not in Europe because Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija has just presented BiH as a country that provides shelter to terrorists. That is the basic condition why we are not in Europe so far. He says, look what he looks like, and he's probably alluding to me. I don't look like any dictator of Stanjin as he looks.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16504	Please, please!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16505	I answer questions directly. Like Mr. Lagumdžija actions. His mourners, already known, are not among the six. Of course he's not here. Here's the whole point. He's threatening violence. So who else is afraid of you? What kind of factor are you? Who's taking you seriously? This country is so powerful, it has so many patriots that one small... party of the Zlatko Lagumdžija may endanger the security of this country. There's no.../unspeakable story... Mr. Lagumdžija. 39 I understand him, and what's against the European pathway, that's what I said last time. Europe has long suppressed communism and its ideology. He doesn't fit the man there, the environment, the miles, he'd feel like a fish in the dry, and that's why I understand him. A man out there couldn't breathe full of lungs. And I understand that. It's his right. This resolution, counterpart Jovičić said, I consider those all resolutions from the SDP to be those of the... Communist party, which parliament pulls out one by one, so they should not be taken seriously. And, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, the Bosnia-Bosna-ekspres is heading for Europe, I hope the six-way controls firmly, stable, and you take the ulcer and that coal and drive back there in the 19th century. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16506	Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija has answers to these discussions. Here's your replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16507	I'm sorry, and it's written that my answer doesn't apply to this last one, because I think, in principle, it's me, so since there are several incorrect allegations here, when it comes to me in replicas, as if these laws were going to enter Europe, that maybe this is unconstitutional, but what difference does it make, that we're wandering left-right, etc., I'd just like to say a few things. Let's get this straight first. These laws, if they were accepted tomorrow, do not enter Europe. It's still a long way to go. The Centre of Civil Initiatives has calculated when it enters Europe, if it's going at this pace. If you go at this pace, what was planned in 2010 until when Špirić promised us that we would be candidates, we will become candidates in 2060 and, if you continue to adopt the laws at this pace, we will enter the EU 2210, so that it is perfectly clear to me that nothing will change from the point of view of your country's EU leadership. So I very clearly want to say that I'm not saying I should wait 11 May, I'm just saying that 11 May things will change regardless of what we do here, and that in our favor, if we refuse this, it will change tomorrow. And on 11 May, this will certainly reflect on us and will have positive reflections on BiH, whatever happens there, because the secession of Kosovo has to do with both China and Spain, so I don't know what would have anything to do with what's going to happen here. In the Rules of Procedure, Mr Kalabić is right, that we at the Rules of Procedure insisted that and much we insisted that he and the Rules of Procedure be resolved differently. But you didn't listen to us. And now you have a business thing, we have to respect that Rules of Procedure. We use our business rights to the end. And I totally agree with Mr. Ajanović, is it, unfortunately, when he goes the wrong way, there is no going back. The wrong path took place in this parliament in May 2006 when the amendments to the BiH Constitution refused, the wrong path took place on March 6th when Dodik refused a statement and on September 30th when Silajdžić refused a better statement and, unfortunately, it cannot be changed, and I agree with you that everything is flowing, that everything is changing, or, to be precise, everything is moving apart from the jerks. So it's perfectly clear to me that we have to move forward, not stand like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16508	Apparently, these requests for a continuance of this session aren't... on the background I asked for and, since that's the case, 10 minutes of breaks. 40 [[PAUZA]] Let's see what we're up to. In fact, we're in the replica stage. Replicas were announced by honourable MP Izetbegović, honourable MP Okolić and Bećirović. Right? Let's see who's giving up the replicas, who wants to continue the replicas? It is in order that the honourable MP Izetbegović. You're giving up, thank you. You, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16510	So here is my replica of Mr. Kalabić's exposure, but also of all those who begin to isolate, to appeal to the SDA and SDP, so that there are no brakes, there is, on the European path. Well, now we're some hard, rigid, insolent. If we gave in a little bit, things would go where they were supposed to go. The amendments to the SDA provide that the Directorate, Agency, Independent Committees, etc. have a link to lower levels and to achieve such efficiency by the police. And the amendments to the SDA, therefore, with these amendments to adopt these laws, would be far less and would contain less reforms than RS representatives were willing to accept three months, six months, a year ago. So, the other day, Mr. Kalabić, when we were there on the Commission, told me -- in fact, to us, well, the one that you rejected, he contained more than he now has, but he doesn't consider going back to that position -- we need to give in, the rest of us can't give in, so he can take a step or two back, so he'll be ready again for what he was ready for three months or half a year ago. So don't accuse the SDA. Everybody think about how much you can give in, where you can give in to the concession, so let's take it responsibly and find this exit that we're looking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16511	Dear Ambassador Okolić, then Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16512	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16513	Is that a replica or a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16514	Replica. Very short and don't worry, I won't be long. The others present in this room, I just want to replicate briefly on all those discussions and all those MPs who said that this commission didn't do a good job and didn't do its job. Please, gentlemen, what do you support that the Commission has not done its job well? That's what I'm building on. I'm surprised no one from the Commission is before, but it doesn't matter, someone has to be first, and I want to fence myself against this commission not doing a good job. In that commission, gentlemen, there are only three of the opposition, the rest are all in position. So if they didn't succumb to certain pressures from someone 41 to whom it suits, then the Commission didn't do it right! What's the Commission: set up a meeting and canceled? She wasn't considering amendments, unserious in deadlines, breaking deadlines? Is that, what the Commission didn't do right? The Commission has fully respected the Rules of Procedure. In time, she held a debate, scheduled a session, discussed all the amendments, voted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and there is, as far as I know, no conflicts in the Rules of Procedure, etc. And that is why I reject the complaints of all those who say that the Commission is not well. It is another thing that the Commission had such a position and that there the members of the Commission think that this solution is this good, and others think that the other solution is good and... and don't be...so let me say, let me say, I'm not going to say this word that I thought was incorrect, but... The Commission has indeed done its part of the job. If someone thinks that the Commission has done well by requiring his thinking, his attitude, then that's not it. Here, in that sense, I am building myself up and I want to say how – that these accusations are not in place that the Commission has not done its job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16515	Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16516	So here are some MPs talking about the SDP MPs, among other things, and the proposals for that resolution on the acceleration of BiH's European path to full EU membership. That is correct, and the SDP proposal was accepted by the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives. However, it would not be good to interpret him as someone who likes him. This resolution implies that we are really moving towards the EU, that we are essentially meeting the conditions for EU accession, rather than violating the principles and postulates on which the EU rests. In that sense, we have made it very clear through this act that, and as the main opposition party, we are taking part in all the things that essentially bring us closer to the EU but in false and apparent reforms that this country has no use for, except that a bunch of its administration and which increases costs, the SDP certainly does not want to participate in such reforms.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16517	Dear Ambassador Raguž. Replic or are you giving up? And Dokić gives up. Replica Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16518	I just checked in, only you didn't notice, and it was very important while he was there as chairman, because I was just trying to give him a line, not as negative as what he said in his act, but by wanting to warn that we have a problem in the work of this Parliament, which we don't have the same approach to solving the problem. This chairman here has appealed to the MPs, and I do not dispute that the police reform and these laws that we need today to adopt once, is it, towards... a European wing. However, from the Council of Ministers, we have received a series of legal solutions that we have not been able to adopt here because we may not have had lobbying by the chairman and perhaps that those principles, which we thought we had here, were actually being violated. We, here from June of the month, will remind you, we have in the procedure of the Agriculture Act. This Agriculture Act 42 has been delivered to us here by the Council of Ministers and... was the assumption that the parliamentary majority had adopted this Agriculture Act. But today, here we are on the committee yesterday, we have failed to make any move. Why? Because suddenly from the RS Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, it came to the view that it was a transfer of jurisdiction. If Mr. Špirić is the chairman of the Council and he comes from the SNSD, which is why all of a sudden, is whether, in that walk, we have a certain problem and I'm not saying that we can have one such problem and then the amendments are being tabled. We tried yesterday, did, that all amendments that were adopted to that law... propose, put out of force, to adopt the integrated text of the law. We couldn't come...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16519	Please, this isn't the agenda point, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16520	Is the agenda point in terms of amendments that
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16521	Well, then it's all part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16522	Please, in terms of the amendments proposed by the Party of Democratic Action, what the President of the Club was just talking about, so, we with these amendments through this committee are basically ignored as a factor that can give its proposal to what the laws of police reform are, what we need here today to adopt. And I note that this Agriculture Act is also one of the conditions, or, let's be precise, an access fund that would bring one billion here to encourage agriculture, especially by adopting the CEFTA Act that gives us room for that agricultural product to come out too. There's a reason this replica of mine, in terms of principle, because we don't have the same approach, we have the amendments here, we have here. No Niko has considered them, and that is exactly why here is the question: Why have the representatives of the SDA not accepted the position? Because no one respected what they thought was a correction that would bring the U.S.A. closer to voting this legal solution. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16523	Dear Ambassador Halilović has a replica. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16524	A brief replica or a discussion, however you wish.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16525	I'm begging you, if you can just go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16526	It will be, it will be, very short. I'm just saying that... maybe it's Miss Hadžiahmetović's replica, because what I heard from her was that this was the first step in police reform. According to how I understood this document, which I have before me, and that team of 43 experts that was conducting, this is not police reform, this is cementing the existing state. And I just want to say that this and this law is not the result of the political will in this House, this law is the consequence of a superficial methodology as it occurred. I want to remind you... that a law like this took place in two stages, at the first stage the opposition was involved. And we attended several meetings, several meetings were held here in the O.R., one of the halls of this Parliament. At these meetings, I was, at that time, on the agenda of the Commission Report, that is, the report of the Commission formed by the Council of Ministers, which was attended by experts E...(?) And the others, Sredoje Nović and the others. And the resolute position then of the SDA and the Party for BiH was that they were against the name RS police. So the resolution was that they were against the name RS police. I'll remind you. After that, I think, they met in the Daily Avaz at that rotating restaurant and then, together again, they resolutely rejected that position. My impression at the time was what the SNSD president and SNSD delegations and PDP delegations were then saying, which they agreed with silence, they did not declare against both the SDS and the Serbian People's Union, and what was then proposed was indeed the beginning of the reform, and very clearly distinguished the competences of the local police from the state police. And after that came this second phase. I'd call her, I wouldn't call her the Mostar Declaration, I'd call her the bar declaration, where the vanity started, and I'd tell her to force them to lead to this as far as they got her. I will not have any problems explaining to those who voted for the BPS political stances of ours, when it comes to police reform, because from the beginning we have also considered today that it is not a problem in the name of the RS Police or the Federation or anything else, but it is a major problem in the powers that police will have, local police structures, and which powers will have state police structures. And there it is very clear that local police structures should have competences: public order and peace and petty crime, and everything else goes to the state level, with very clear and precise ingenuities of what anyone should do. At that time, attitudes were approximately, roughly, the same. Inath and bar talks have led us here and this is not police reform, this is only a commentation of the existing situation, and it is up to MPs to determine whether they will accept or reject this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16527	Thank you. I don't have any more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Dear Ambassador Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16528	So, before, at Mr. Dokić's presentation, I answered the line, and I saw your suggestion to make it possible through the discussion, so I'm going to do it very briefly...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16529	Here you go. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16530	...saying what it means to remind me of something I wanted to replicate, that, among other things, Mr Dokić when he says that BiH is looking for harder conditions for EU accession, I do not know who he thinks BiH is looking for harder conditions. The Party of Democratic Action has said that given the problems and the different views expressed under this reform, that we should skip that reform, that we should enter faster, we also know the positions set by the EU to us. However, we also know that those three EU principles, we also know that this was not the only condition for the approximation and paraphrasing of the Stabilisation Agreement, that there are three more full co-operations with The Hague tribunal, public TV reform and public administration reform, that they are not being discussed today. Out of responsibility for what is said today and in the media, which is present, that this is an EU or not EU issue, as a man, I did not want to give up my voice on this,... about my position as a Party of Democratic Action and my responsibilities and the way in which we will approach the EU at the rate of speed. We will be in a situation very soon and we have had a situation to show through the adoption of the already mentioned Agriculture Act, the Health Protection Act for all BiH citizens. So Mr. Špirić here, our prime minister, who says I would like to see that I am so keenly struggling to amend the Law on Citizens who are losing the citizenship of BiH hundreds of thousands of citizens of this country from a law that would allow BiH citizens to retain BiH's citizenship status. And when we talk here about compromises, then we really go back, so let's say what the initial point of compromise is, both in police reform and in all these reforms, and then there will be a lot clearer views and conclusions and amendments to the SDA that require new laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16531	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on the third and fourth points of the agenda. Moving to the fifth item of the agenda: Ad. 5. Proposal for a resolution on Bosnia and Herzegovina's readiness for NATO integration (proposed by NATO members, me and Mr Genjac at the House of Representatives and Mr Ivo Miro Jović in the House of Peoples) The House decided that the proposed resolution was previously discussed in the competent commission. The Joint Commission for Defence and Security, which submitted the Report on the Proposal for a Resolution on 14 February 2008, is responsible for the Joint Commission's proposal for amendments and additions to paragraphs 5 and 6. 45 I am opening a debate on the motion for a resolution, with these amendments as set out in the report of the committee responsible. Here's only if you allow me to say a few introductory sentences as a proprietor. Here, esteeming what I said ahead, let me just briefly say that this resolution came as a fruit of co-operation between our Commission on Defence and Security, the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the BiH Ministry of Defence at a joint meeting that we decided on under the recommendations of the BiH Presidency, according to what BiH is allowed to make a higher degree of integration towards the NATO Pact. What was expected of us as the highest home here in BiH to once support BiH's further path towards the NATO Pact, we have made this resolution which, as you can see, and in our own committee with very little changes has come here to Parliament. I think the motion for a resolution mentions everything that is important to BiH further integration and we call for this home to be accepted. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković, then Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16533	Mr. Chairman, as well as the Proposer and... Proposer of this resolution, therefore, we welcome the intention of making BiH very clear in this way its... commitment. Previously, we know that the BiH presidency is calling for a strategic goal to determine... the approximation or entry of BiH into Euro-Atlantic integration. Of course, I didn't stand up for it but to explain one amendment that I suggested, so, in accordance with Article 149. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, which reads: - In the end, a position is added, which reads: MPs are expected, therefore, to think, as it is said in the preamble, that BiH citizens will be expected to declare a referendum on the issue before the final entry into NATO. The referendum will be confirmed by the Parliamentary Assembly's decision. In fact, we appreciate that, as in any other country, given the importance of this resolution, we need to define ourselves now that we will finally declare ourselves in a referendum, thus giving full or full legitimacy to such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16534	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16535	Thank you. I would first like to say that when it comes to the SDP Club in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, BiH's NATO accession policy is not at all controversial. That should, in any case, be the strategic commitment of all BiH state authorities, including this parliament. However, when it comes to 46 of the contents of this resolution, which is before us today, I would like to say the following. I must say, the contents of this resolution are more like a declaration than a resolution. The text, I think, is full of principles, findings and commitment, so maybe you could consider whether this should be a statement or a declaration. If we adopt the resolution, the resolution should contain certain measures, tasks, deadlines, duties, and you will acknowledge that there are no deadlines, no measures, no duties in this act. So, we generally think, here's the thing, and when it comes to this act, BiH doesn't need empty texts without precise measures, deadlines and job holders to be realised. This act, I must admit, has a very strong title, and the title should in some ways define the content of this act, however, in this case, it is not quite so. BiH's readiness, but the true readiness to join NATO, is not expressed in words: they find, note, convince, etc. We need a little more concrete measures: when, what and within what time to make BiH truly a full member of the NATO Pact. That's what I'm saying because the resolution after the law is one of the strongest acts parliament can adopt. And the NATO Pact is a very important thing for BiH, and not only for BiH, but it is a guarantee of peace and security and in the wider frameworks. So, in particular, I think that in addition to these declarative notes that are a little bit like the preamble, it would be better if we had one package and a programme of measures to really get full membership in the NATO Pact. I therefore propose that, if possible, we put in one position, which would read: That BiH meets the essential requirements for joining NATO's full membership by 2010 at the latest. When I say the deadline and when I tell you what our goal is, then it means that all the authorities in this country are actually activated to realize it in that time. Otherwise, I'm afraid this will be another resolution that will not be realised within the time frame within which BiH citizens expect it. We have lost too much time to adopt any more acts, in which there are no clear and precise deadlines when, what and how to do. I think with this addition, this resolution would have much more power and more meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16536	Dear Member Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16537	I answered for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16538	For discussion, yes. There's no replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16539	So what I'm saying is that the motion for a resolution that we have on the agenda today in any case reflects not only the promoter but should reflect both the will and attitude of the whole, the overall Parliament today, the us who are discussing this here, and who will possibly vote on this. 47 The previous discussion so little, let me say, asked me to report on what I was going to say because when we had a resolution on the acceleration of BiH's path towards the European integration of the SDP Club, when I read that resolution, it seemed to me like people took and listed all those jobs done by the Council of Ministers, which the Parliamentary Assembly is doing, and all of us here together and formulated it in a resolution that they presented as their own, to say, the original work here in Parliament and asked that we all make it clear. I think it's very delicate that both this resolution and this one today, we're talking about whether it's for or against. In principle, we should all be in favour, because it is the only possible -- therefore, the accession of BiH to the EU and NATO Pact -- is the only possible way for BiH, if we are thinking about a good perspective in this country. I would like to say that this resolution, in any case, is to a certain extent a list of certain obligations, i.e. the necessary activities that BiH needs to do, to carry out, and we would have to take this very seriously and responsibly, if we have in mind, or if we want to go from this to speed up that path and do all together what we need to do. It is really unacceptable here in Parliament that certain discussions try to make those things... for which they themselves are individual MPs, for whom they themselves are aware that it is only possible and beneficial for BiH, it is trying to divorce it, to relativise it and to bring it all into question, but only, when their club proposes something, then no one has heard or knew about it or knew such matter, only they are invited and certain that so some things... amount to and picture it in front of parlament. I therefore believe that this resolution, which has been proposed, is fully in line with the needs and requirements of BiH at the moment, and I propose that we adopt it together today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16540	Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16541	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I believe that the BiH Parliament, that is, this home, later and the House of Peoples, I suppose, should accept this resolution as proposed by the Commission. And I suggest that we do not burden this resolution with any amendments, because with amendments – some can be accepted, some cannot be accepted – I think we will just enter a phase that might not be good for the resolution itself. We should make a clear commitment to a parliamentary decision. We've shown that commitment... so far. BiH is in NATO's lobby, BiH is in NATO's Partnership for Peace programme, we now expect at the summit in Bucharest to see BiH climb the NATO Alliance progress scale and expect BiH to become a member as soon as possible, a NATO member. So I think, therefore, that this resolution should be supported and that amendments should not be discussed. Here, I'll look back on one amendment, so Mr. Novaković's amendment. Be careful, if the BiH Parliament promotes the referendum as a means of deciding and confirming the BiH Parliament referendum before NATO's final membership, then it is a prelude to cast doubts about our commitment to NATO alliance. I don't think we should send that kind of doubt. BiH has no other way, let someone say, which is the second time, except for the road to EU membership and membership in the Euro-Atlantic Security Association, which is called NATO 48 Alliance. So there's no second time, there's no other alternative... and I think and we're in deep trouble. So that's what we're in, and that's good, and that's God's way faster. Now to put a referendum as a condition, in the end, before the act itself, I think it casts doubt on BiH's commitment and we should not fall into such a kind of trap. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16542	Dear Ambassador Novaković: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16543	Well, you see, a referendum shouldn't be an expression of doubt, at least nowhere is an expression of doubt, but an expression of a democratic act. We think that the BiH citizens' commitment should be to join NATO. And we think that citizens should be given the right to make their commitment a referendum. I really don't see why in this way I would suspect the need to get there,...that, that our goal is that membership. Of course, there are other ways, but here's what we've set ourselves up for this time. There's a way and a demilitarization, so no, but we didn't opt for that one. So, I said, that's why the presidency has twice been determined so far that this is BiH's strategic goal. What I may be able to accept with Mr Džaferović is whether, or as a dilemma, whether after the referendum there is a need for the Parliamentary Assembly now to make a decision again. Maybe it can be then, if that's the problem, and, if that's a motive for doubt, it's not a problem for me, or for me in this amendment to give up. So, to erase that, but really to let the referendum citizens say their opinion at the end of the process when the matter is already over and it's really, really no use, and in no case can there be any doubt.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16544	Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16545	So if you've made your commitment clear, therefore, it's the commitment of all of us in BiH that our path is NATO's path, and that's why we're not putting in now, we're not putting in any reserves. This is still a reserve, a certain type of reserve, so on our Euro-Atlantic security route. It's a reason no longer to be, as it's called, this amendment in this resolution. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16546	Dear Ambassador Novaković. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16547	I'm going to iskoristić the right of this other replica so I don't... I don't care if I'm right anymore. If BiH citizens say no in the referendum, then I have a reservation for this. If citizens in the referendum say they don't want to join NATO integration, I have a reserve, of course I have a reserve, 49 if the majority of citizens don't. So I don't see... what's the problem: if people don't want them there, we're not gonna make them here. And I think it's perfectly logical, and I know, so we all know what commitment is, I repeat, but I don't see why we shouldn't say what's here today. These are our resolutions, we want to do this in this way and, of course, we expect, I didn't even say we insist, but we expect it to be... to schedule at the end of the referendum, and to confirm it and to give... full capacity to that decision. I don't really see, I don't want to, of course, anymore, but I don't see any reason for this kind of backup.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16548	Thank you. The word is made by Dr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16549	Just for a little while. When we wrote this resolution, we took care of the powers of the Parliamentary Assembly, which the BiH Presidency has. The BiH presidency under the Constitution is responsible for the conduct of foreign policy under Article V 3(a) and (c) which is very important for BiH's representation in international and European organisations and institutions and for seeking membership in those international organisations and institutions where BiH is not a member. So this is the exclusive jurisdiction of the BiH presidency and it is not good for the Parliamentary Assembly to enter a jurisdiction that is the express responsibility of the BiH presidency. On the other hand, that's the answer to your amendment. On the other hand, as far as this resolution is concerned, I understand the need for SDP MPs to trouble anything that comes from the other party's option in this parliament, but we have really tried to make that resolution look the best that resolution can. We took at least three resolutions and saw how they did it. The best resolution NATO has adopted was an Albanian resolution, and according to that resolution, we have done something similar, so it definitely doesn't stand the story that this is not a good resolution, but it's just an excuse not to support something, which comes from someone else, which absolutely convinces me in the position that I will no longer support any conclusion from the SDP. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bešlagić: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16550	I would like to say, Mr. Živković, the SDP will support this resolution. But we were right – just as the amendment was given to our resolution, so you adopted it – to do it. If the amendment fails, we will again support this resolution. The suštinski is, let us say something in this House, don't hold us back and don't say what we think. What is it, people of Božiji? So come on, let's just let us be the party that acts like this and don't, we'll support this resolution. The amendment, or conclusion, has been made, so put it to 50 to vote, it would be good if it didn't go through, but it's good to support this resolution. No dilemma, no dilemma.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16551	Obviously we didn't understand each other. I'm from what the SDP has been saying in terms of this predecessor of yours that it's said it won't support itself, however, obviously we've changed a bit. We have replicas further: Ambassador Križanović. Replica, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16552	Very brief, Mr. Chairman. Mostly, my colleague Bešlagić said what I was thinking, but just to add to this, I am very surprised that the chairman is coming to a very explicit position that even the conclusion will not be supported by the SDP! So it's not the point, it's what's coming from the SDP! And the intention of the SDP was, as has already been said, to try to fix it, because why are we discussing this then, then we should have gone straight to the vote who's for, who's against and over. If the debate is open, is it not correct to listen to an attempt to repair the proposed document? So, I stay behind what my colleague Bešlagić said, it does not have to be accepted, it will not be decisive if we make a positive statement about this resolution or not. But don't, my people, make such an unnecessary atmosphere, in which we say, "Here, we won't, even now we're just going to say, we won't support a conclusion, needlessly."
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16553	Let's move on. Dear Ambassador Kalabić: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16554	Well, it's not a replica, a very short discussion, as counterpart Marković said about the SNSD's clear position on this resolution. What we would be invited if it is possible for Mr. Novaković to be the first position of the amendment itself... that he reads: they expect that a referendum in BiH will be organised before NATO's final entry, to conclude it. And what I would warn you about is the fact that we don't make a big imbalance about the story of NATO and the story of European integration, and I have a feeling that we are in one danger of doing it, although many countries have tried to keep up in both sides, and on the contrary even some have expressed more desire to be closer to the EU than NATO, and here I feel that we are in one danger of losing a full step on the other side, and that we are going far ahead here, and that we should take care of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16555	The next honourable Messenger Okolić, then Genjac. Here you go. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16556	Mr. Chairman, in this amendment, Mr. Novaković is said to be expected, so it is not in the jurisdiction that we know the Presidency and the Presidency could have taken such a stand without this resolution that we are proposing here today in the Assembly, but here as a resolution comes as something to be safe. However, what I wanted to say to this, and maybe this is Mr. Novaković saying: it can be given up that Parliament after that confirms what the people said in the referendum, and it is not disputed, there is no need. But we may remember sometimes these words, whether by entering or not, and here, by entering, where we are committed, to NATO, we will always create, unless there is a referendum and there is a clear people saying that we want to join NATO integration, create a climate where we are committed, that someone from political parties or individuals is challenging NATO entry, that it may not be implemented until the end of the parliamentary... democratic procedure, although it is not an obligation for NATO fully in the form of a referendum, and that will come out of hand and as an argument to each of them to discuss or discuss it if a referendum is implemented, and if citizens are declared to go to NATO integration. I think that's what our citizens are trying to do, but in the end, if they were to say that they are not NATO integration, then they say something, then the opposite of the will of the citizens is not working well, but, in any case, the indication that they are citizens for it, and this is a good confirmation that no one, when it comes to that decision, will be able to say that something was not democratic, that it was not extraordinary and that they will not be able to dispute that entry into NATO either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16557	Dear Ambassador Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16558	Dear colleagues, it may be important, and colleagues of course, to bear in mind at what point and the occasion of the Resolution is made up. In April, the NATO Pact Summit is being held in Bucharest, and we expect positive decisions on BiH's path to NATO integration. There has been an announcement that we can expect an intensive dialogue, but there is likely to be an Action Plan for Membership, the MAP, that is a slightly higher level and, when we consider this in the light of the resolution's title, the resolution on BiH's readiness for NATO integration, I do not think it is common that at this point in this resolution and this on the introduction of a referendum clause, yes or no. When the time comes, when other things come, as usually happens in countries that are pretenders, then the issue is resolved. Now this resolution addresses some of the issues that this resolution needs to address and, just to remind you, that the resolution is basically an act whereby the Parliamentary Assembly, or the House, gives its view on the relevant political issue. The relevant political issue at this point is our movement towards the NATO Pact and it is quite certain that it is not controversial. As for the objection that this resolution does not have a particular particular definition and that it should specify what we should do, I think that, when it comes to NATO integration, we are in a better position, in a position where our definition is not about what we want to do, but about our definition, in this case, it is about what we did. And we have done a really impressive job of 52 when it comes to NATO integration, because in the first year of membership in the Partnership for Peace Partnership we have created a presentation document, we have developed and implemented the Individual Partnership Programme (IPP), we have conducted a defence review procedure, the PARK so-called, we have established partnership goals, we have started the procedure of the Individual Partnership Action Plan... and it is particularly important to conclude the Agreement on the Exchange of Secret Information with NATO and the start of the exchange. The ratification procedure for the Status of Forces Agreement is also under way. Those who do a little NATO integration and this problem know what success is, and how much work is done in a relatively short time. And here it is indeed after that, and with all that is stated, it is still necessary for the Parliamentary Assembly to say: we are committed to supporting all steps, to help all institutions and to invite all institutions to speed up their path, and this resolution does. So I think this resolution is a balanced reflection of needs, conditions, and there's no need for conclusions, especially the conclusion that we're going to be that year. We will fulfill everything that is up to us, as you can see, and we say, be, it depends on others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16559	Thank you. If there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving on to
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16560	I apologize, Chairman, to accept... this correction... Kalabić for the amendment. It means that in the vote this amendment reads in the way proposed by Mr Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16561	Thank you. We're going to the sixth point, Ad. Six. Providing approval for ratification under a), b, c) We have previously received opinions from the Foreign Affairs Commission on agreements under a) and b). This morning you're on the tables, I hope, getting it because the Commission was sitting, and under c). I would unite a discussion of three agreements. I'm opening a debate, please. Unless there's been a report. Dear Ambassador Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16563	Thank you, Mr. President. 53 Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I will not discuss the texts of these agreements that we should give the previous consent to today. I would like to draw attention to certain doubts concerning the granting of prior consent and the procedures accompanying the ratification of international agreements. In this business, and I suppose in these three agreements, a whole series of institutions have been involved for a long time, and we are the most recent in the chain of approval of the international agreement, i.e. ratification. So I guess after all the assumptions have been fulfilled, then we give the previous consent, and the Presidency then ratifys that agreement. Why am I saying this? We ratified in the ninth month of last year, here gave the previous consent to ratify an international agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16564	Just a little bit, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16565	So in the ninth month of last year, this parliament, this House of Representatives gave prior consent to the ratification of an international agreement, and the procedure for the signing of the international agreement was launched in 2005, launched by an authorised constitutional proposal from the BiH presidency, and then passed through the negotiation process through the competent ministry, through the Council of Ministers, and returned to the presidency, and a certain negotiator, and a certain signator, and a certain, then set out at Council meetings of Ministers draft etc. etc. and, when all this has been worked out in the whole procedure, so there has been no problem or difficulty, it has come before this house later and before the peoples this agreement, and we have agreed. However, after several months of consideration in the Bureau,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16566	May I have your attention, please? NO ONE
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16567	: what we have already done, what the Presidency has done through the multiannual work of the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, has reached the conclusion that this agreement should not yet be accepted. In fact, it means a dual citizenship agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia that has passed all the procedures, and here on these two pages, I won't bother you, now they're just numbered all these procedures, just numbered, so, no explanation at all, and one member of the Bureau finally expressed the procedure reserve against it, or invested vital interest... and we don't have a decision today, but today we don't have a decision. And now I'm asking myself and you. I will not challenge these agreements and the HDZ Club of BiH will today give its previous agreement on these three agreements. But I ask the question: why, why, why are we giving consent at all if our consent to the Presidency is not binding, because the Presidency is in charge of the negotiation process, it can interrupt it whenever it wants, it can not run it by any agreement at all, it is its exclusive jurisdiction! However, it must be a responsibility when the procedure is brought to an end. When the Parliamentary Assembly gives its previous consent, does it make sense for the Bureau to change that then? If there is, then there's no point in us giving consent. I think I respect the Bureau's institution, but the Presidency has an obligation among other things to respect the Parliamentary Assembly and to even implement its 54 decisions. So if we're going to violate those criteria, then the question of meaning is being asked. So here's the thing, I wanted to do more about this point to update this issue and open up to think about all of us in terms of how our system works and whether we're going to be responsible both for ourselves and for the time and for what we need to do, or if we're going to waste our time irrationally in the debates on some of the issues... that here can be after years of work put ad act, because at some point someone thinks it shouldn't be so. So, I also appeal from this place to the members of the Bureau, to all three members of the Presidency to respect the positions and decisions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on issues on which the Parliamentary Assembly is pleading, and also on the previous agreement that the Parliamentary Assembly gives to conclude international agreements and agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16568	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16569	Dear Chairman, by fully supporting Mr. Lozančić's discussion, I would like to extend a little bit now to the second level. ... It is not jurisdiction at all, so we have witnessed here in Parliament that already when we ratify the agreement and talk a little bit about these agreements that one minister self-initiately writes a note and says it is not valid. Well, you guys, I really can't figure out that we're in a position of this kind of thing and mostly, when this ratification is, it's just like we're getting to know each other, we're giving some consent. Respecting everything Mr. Lozančić has said, every word but, please, we must return a little story and to where the right of a minister to some initiative and note agreement, which we have ratified here, cancels. Are we going to get serious here and get Parliament and all the competent institutions serious so that they can't do that kind of thing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16570	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jukić. I'm asking you to ratify the agreement, specifically three, we're talking here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16571	Well, here, I'll comment briefly on what Mr. Lozančić said. So, from this point on, it is clear that the BiH Parliament does not perform its constitutionally prescribed function and that it has a second parliamentary body in this country or more of which the decisions of this Parliament serve... only as information and an examination of the opinion, because they make different decisions. So it's a kind of advisory body for entity parliaments or parts of entity parliaments. In this case, I find it very concrete, which Mr. Lozančić has elaborated here, made a discount, was it unconstitutional, and I think that in the next period, 55 of us are mandatory, we will ask the BiH Constitutional Court: Was it done in accordance with the BiH Constitution or not? Otherwise, if it was done in accordance with the Constitution, we really need to ask the purpose of our work on some issues and I will tell my court immediately if this is considered to be okay, and correct, in accordance with the Constitution, then I really don't think we should be considering international agreements at all in the future, giving ratifications, because so our opinion does not oblige anyone in this country, and then it's a job that has no use at all. We're wasting time.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16572	Thank you. I have also reported a more honourable Member of Novaković. Is that an accident? No, it doesn't. I'm closing the debate. Since some MPs have already asked, I... said that we would have a statement on the agenda points at half past three, until the MPs can have lunch, and, after that statement, we would start with the next session. I think we have enough time to finish this. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, we are going to vote on the agenda points. We voted first on the minutes from the 21st and 22nd session of the House of Representatives, respecting the remarks of the honourable MP Bećirović at the 22nd session and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will adapt the minutes of the 22nd session, citing only the names of those who discussed, without discussion. I hope you will respect this request. And, please, I'm putting the minutes of the 21st session of the House of Representatives to the vote. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 41, "against" and "abstained" were not sufficient, the entity majority. We've adopted a 21st-session record. Please prepare for the vote on the 22nd session minutes, with the remarks we have made. You can vote now! "For" 41, "against" was not, "abstained" was not. I don't see who's missing from the MPs. Who? And Lijanović! Thank you. We move to a vote on the third item of the agenda, namely we will vote on our Commission's report on the third and fourth points of the agenda, and then on the conclusions that make sense only if the law returns to the Commission, which is proposed by the honourable MP Lozančić. 56 So, we are voting on the Commission's report on the proposal for a law on the independent and supervisory bodies of the BiH police structure, with the Joint Commission on Defence and Security report. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 19, "against" 21, "abstained" was not. This law has been returned to the Commission. Please list for those who need a list. There's no one to repeat? Are we gonna do it again? The request of the Party for BiH. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16575	The chairman, so this third part, he says, will discuss the report's decision and the bill's proposal, the House of Representatives will take place within no longer than 48 hours. Since when and when is that dead line until, say, this week we can work. Here, nothing else. I think it's correct to know what the proposer meant? If it can be held by Friday, it can, if not, then next. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16576	So I'm not getting up there. No longer than 48 hours, which means it could be less than 48 hours. ________(?) Since when? From the day of the conclusion, decision-making. From now on.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16578	Dear Ambassador Križanović wanted something. Is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16579	And it's very short. I don't think the first conclusion makes any sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16580	Well, I know, that's what I said. I said that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16581	He doesn't make any sense, no matter what the outcome of the vote was.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16582	But I've said that before.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16583	So what do we vote on conclusions then? It doesn't make sense. Secondly, the Commission's session has already been scheduled, and therefore this second conclusion does not make sense either. At least part of that conclusion doesn't make sense. So... it makes sense to make a statement about the conclusions if they're a little bit reformed. If that's not allowed, we can vote. It's no problem, but it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16584	Thank you. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 22, "against" 10, "abstained" 10, with a sufficient entity majority – the adopted conclusion. We're passing... the Honorable Ambassador of Lagumdžija's business intervention. Here you go. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16585	Because of the delicateness of the situation that we all know about, I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, that as long as we are here, since you have concluded that this will be no longer than 48 hours, please let the members of the Commission know today in Parliament when the Commission is, that there will be no manipulation if someone did not know, did not come and the like. Wait a minute, so it's precisely known at the meeting, when the Commission's meeting. First of all, the Commission!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-18-0.u16586	Thank you. We move to the fifth item of the agenda: a proposal for a resolution on BiH's readiness for NATO integration, in accordance with Article 149. Rules of Procedure. We've got two amendments. The first amendment is the honourable MP Novaković, which reads: To add a new position at the end of the resolution: BiH citizens expect to make a referendum on the issue before NATO's final entry. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! Here you go. Dear Ambassador Prodanović. I have read about the date that has been modified, which was accepted by Ambassador Novaković as modified. I read it, the other thing is you don't listen. Please prepare, very important things are voting. We could've talked to each other while there was a debate, now there's no discussion and debate, now it's a conclusion, now it's a vote. Please prepare to vote. I've read the modification of the conclusion. You can vote. Now! "For" 15, "against" 22, "abstained" five. He didn't get the general majority, we didn't adopt this amendment. We are moving to vote on this amendment of the honourable MP Denis Bećirović, which reads: At the end of the resolution, a new position is added: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is tasking BiH's competent authorities to meet the essential conditions for BiH's entry into full NATO pact membership at the latest by 2010. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 17, "against" 12, "abstained" 12. There's not enough entity majority. We don't have an agreement on this. We move to the second round of voting, only the votes "against" count, but everyone votes. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 16, "against" 21, "abstained" five; 12 "against" from RS. This amendment didn't get most of it. 59 We are going to vote on a motion for a resolution on BiH's readiness for NATO integration as a whole. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 38, "against" was not, "abstained", three, with a sufficient entity majority – I realize that we adopted the Resolution. We move to the sixth item of the agenda: Giving consent to ratification a) of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the governments of other SEECP participating countries, the United Nations Mission to Kosovo's temporary administration on behalf of Kosovo, in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 Please prepare for the vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 40, "against" was not, "abstained" one; sufficient entity majority. I understand we've given consent to ratification. We move to: b) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the establishment of a Financial Co-operation Framework Programme Please prepare for the vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 39, "against" one, "abstained" one, with a sufficient entity majority – we have agreed to this agreement. And under: c) Other amendments and additions to the Credit and Financing Agreement of 23.11.2004 between Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska and Kreditanstalf fur Wiederufbau – Frankfurt am Mein ''KfW' - Rehabilitation of urban water and sewerage systems in Bosnia and Herzegovina Please prepare for the vote. You can vote. Now! “For” 37, “against” two, “abstained” one. I understand we've given consent. Dear MPs, we have completed the agenda of the 23rd session, and today we should be working until 6:00 p.m. and then we should continue on the agenda for the next session tomorrow. The seat's over at 3:00.
