ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19581	Representatives, honored guests, continue the work of the 32nd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. According to service information, I'd like to conclude that there are 26 representatives present at the session. So we have a quorum for work and decision-making. The absence was justified by Mr. Milorad Živković, Mrs. Milica Marković, Azra Alajbegović, Mehmed Suljkanović, Adem Huskić and Snježana Rajilić, and the delay was announced by Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetović, Sefer Halilović and Vinko Zorić. I remind you that on the first part of the session, we have completed a debate with the 13th agenda. So we move to the 14th point of the established agenda: Ad. 14. Report on the work and financial operations of the Public Business News and Publishing Organisation "Official Journal of BiH" 2007 The public company "The Official Journal of BiH" delivered a report on work for 2007 on 16 April 2008. The Committee on Finance and Budgets shall be responsible for considering this report. On 2 June 2008, the Commission submitted a proposal not to consider this report at the 30th session because the Commission concluded that the report of the "Official List" was previously made known by the Council of Ministers. The College followed the Commission's proposal, and the report on the work of the "Official List" was downloaded from the proposed agenda of the 30th session. On 3 July 2008, the Finance and Budget Committee submitted its report on this report from this point. Most of the votes were accepted by the Commission's report on the work of the "Official List" and referred it to a further parliamentary procedure with a proposal for Dom to adopt it. In addition to the report, the Committee also proposes to Dom to adopt the conclusion: - The House of Representatives requires the Council of Ministers of BiH to resolve the legal status of "the Official Journal of BiH" in the coming period and to implement the procedure for the appointment of the new Management Board of "the Official Journal of BiH". It is also necessary to consider the possibility of deploying the surplus income of the "Official Journal of BiH" for capital investments and reviewing the prices of their services, and the ability to print the "Official Messenger of BiH" in one of the languages for which the subscriber is designated, as well as the printing of Public Procurement Advertisers in special editions of "The Official Messenger of BiH". I'm opening a debate. 2 Dear Representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19583	I must say that when it comes to "the Official Messenger of BiH" that we as parliamentarians have been discussing it for a long time, and always... in the end we realize that the Council of Ministers should give an opinion on "the Official Messenger" because it seems to me that he is not defined here: which is his place and role, who is responsible for him.... And always, it seems to me, and last 2006 he was returned and kept at it... I don't know if we adopted him or not, I don't think we adopted him. Here, as we can see, we have only one happiness, and it is fortunate that "the official BiH messenger" is doing a positive job. And that's something we should support and say, Božiji's people, let's definitely define ourselves what the "Official Messenger" is and what his tasks are so that we can take the "Official Messenger" as a metric in giving all the competitions, all the notices, advertisements, etc. For this reason, I repeat, these were our conclusions the last time: that the Council of Ministers was determined, and we never have an answer. And I think that this time we should insist that definitely because it's really a good firm that definitely the Council of Ministers defines the status and role of the "Official Messenger" so that we can normally observe his annual report and give, I would say, suggestions and suggestions. What I repeat once again is a good thing that this paper, here I am, as far as I know and the director has gone and there is no, it needs to be given a new Management Board, it needs to be organised and it needs to be answered and I believe that I support that the "Official Messenger" continues to work with a positive, positive balance. Imagine if we had a situation like this in TV BiH! I think our discussions about television would have been over long ago. I'm sorry that we still don't have that answer about this business-positive official who's doing a good job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19584	Thank you. Dear Representative Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19585	I'll just take a minute. You stated the Commission's position. So, the Commission... for the first time has not discussed my report for the reasons why the Council of Ministers has not discussed it. After the Council of Ministers adopted the Report and the Commission supported the report with these conclusions and, in particular, underlining the Commission and I had been in my discussion. I think it's always positive, but it's not positive, it's because it's a monopoly. The problem is that there were 7 million profits on the account last year, 5 million to be inactive, 5 to 7 million dollars a year. The Council of Ministers should also make such a decision, for all those institutions such as this, that the funds are available for capital investments. This is how we get dead capital. So, in that context, the Council of Ministers doesn't have one here... The Council of Ministers to make one decision to keep those funds operational, not to have 5 million a year lying there again next year, so to speak. That's it, thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19586	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19587	Mr. Chairman, I was going to replicate to my distinguished colleague Bešlagić, but since the President of the Commission has said about this report, I am also obliged to say that we did not support this report, that we were abstentioned at the session of the Commission. Since the debate was being held, from what we had in the materials, from what we know and what follows this problem, it is obvious that this situation is not being corrected and it is obvious that our demands are going in the road, and this messenger is going in the woods or vice versa. How can a mono-political company that has had such problems so far around administration and organisation and now let's talk about positive business. As far as I know, he's funded by economic operators and people... who are dealing with a job based on "the official messenger," that they only determine the price and the rest there, and that's what the situation with so much extra income is showing. I don't think that's real, that it's not right. You have a situation where the "Official Messenger" has been repeatedly warned, where it is not clear to anyone why in such a way the "Official Messenger" is printed in one cover of three versions, where people who professionally deal with it say it is a problem, it is translated by the layman into the fact that in this way only it is done for the greater use of repromation, paper and other things, what needs to be done. Because that doesn't make sense. If someone is looking, they have one version, and they're not looking for two other versions, they're kind of completely unnecessary to him, and they're sending me all three versions for vague reasons. You got those fat bookies people don't even know what to do anymore. That's what the professionals say about archiving it, drawing data from it, and then I don't know how they don't answer not to solve it. So I'm saying, I don't think the Council of Ministers has done a good job here, done a good job and didn't do what the Commission asked him to do, given that those dilemmas and everything that was before the Council of Ministers decided that it was left and after. I would like it to be known that when we are making polls to hear their opinion in this situation: whether it is correct to take money from them in this way and make such extra income, we have this kind of money, and especially because we do not have a transparent use of that money, and we do not have a transparent report on how this money is used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19588	Thank you. Dear Representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19589	Dear Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, gentlemen of the guests, we had a debate at the Finance Commission and the budget on "The Official Messenger". Unfortunately, we have the same conclusions back three years that refer to the status of "The Official Messenger". Do not slow down, and given the absolute justification that BiH has such an institution, I believe that some of the attitudes we get here do not stand the way they are. First of all, it is illogical for the president – I do not know who this man is – the chairman of the Public Enterprise Management Board 4 of the Newspaper Organisation "The Official Journal of BiH" to deliver this report, which has no conclusions, which has no specific views. The Council of Ministers adopted this report, that we absolutely do not have views concerning further activities in terms of development, modernisation and functionality of this extremely significant institution. We have one situation that concerns that the Management Board, that members of the Board of Directors here have appointed entity governments, is a complete one of the illogicalities that one of the, that the chairman of the Management Board has been proposed by an earlier minister in the Council of Ministers and that state stands, believe it or not, here since 2002. I listened to the Director and the Management of the Official Messenger, and I asked the same question on the Commission. Unofficially, I have some information that the governance structure has a salary higher in that institution than the members of the BiH Presidency... I've also been informed that middle-aged employees have a salary at the height of deputies or ministerial assistants. The board members, I don't know, the president has 1,800 KM, members of 1,500 KM, that's an earlier data one... and the employee representative, I don't know, 600 KM. A list they say works well, believe it or not, that he had the rest, so the profits in the last year are almost 6 million – 5,870,000, of which income makes only revenues from an ad almost 7 million. In such a monopolies position, and the truth, while respecting that advertising prices are somewhat reduced, that "The Official Messenger of BiH" is the only institution that publishes a public procurement ad, it is absolutely logical to have such a profit. But the profits were made by business banks and profits by these funds were 98,000, while BiH annually allocates 20 million KM for the lease of business space. The "Official Messenger" itself is not located in adequate rooms. We have an absolute illogicality. The total number of pages being issued is more, therefore, about 10,000 pages, so these official ads, official documents, the other two-thirds are actually an ad part, which accounts for almost 70% of the total revenue. It's the most unfavourable publication in BiH, it's the only publication I can't use for anything but everything I need from it I have to copy. It has three times as many pages because the press, so the previous colleagues mentioned,... a complete "Official Messenger" in the languages of all three constituent nations and... you will not believe, for example, in advertising one side of this official section and, let's say, 300 pages of these public procurement ads. And, let's say, a special edition...... I think it's the right approach, which applies to international contracts, can only be printed in that form. The total circulation of the "Official Messenger" is about 7,000 copies, which is delivered to subscribers and instead of saving this advertising part, to be three times smaller, it would be something about 3,000, if we were to print in the languages of the constituent peoples as version a, b and c or no matter, as agreed, and this, the advertising part to go independently of that. I think it's one of the solutions that needs to be done. Furthermore, the issue of the electronic version and this initiative that honourable MP Adem Huskić has launched, I think it is very important and that it should be accepted. I believe that the Council of Ministers simply must not delay the problem that is present, it must determine what is the status of the "Official Messenger". Is this the only institution that has the status of a public enterprise in BiH and based on which law and, if that is impossible, it should be brought into line with the law and what we have in Parliament, it is absurd that Parliament should talk about the development strategy of a significant BiH institution, instead of doing so by this founder through its appointed ones, so the institutions in this list, so the Management Board, management structures, the Management Board and directors. Also, I believe that the "Official Messenger" is not adequate in the "Official Messenger" number of employees, not adequately represented representatives of the constituent peoples, not delaying the right for employees to have an adequate qualification structure, and this structure of employees, above all, to harm the Croatian and Serbian people. I think we should take care of that. It's usually better than it was in 2007, than it was in 2006, but it's still inadequate. I therefore believe that the Parliamentary Assembly of this objection, which is addressed by the Commission, should finally return to the Council of Ministers and, as soon as possible, carry out, in accordance with the law, the organisation and constitution of this institution and, very importantly, that the Council of Ministers must call a competition for the appointment of the Management Board, because this is an absolute illogicality in the way of appointing the Management Board which is not only relevant to anyone but to its own interests. I also believe that "the official messenger", given the overall unresolved situation, must drastically reduce public advertising prices. I think, after all, or if the founder is behind it, I am talking about the Council of Ministers, then these funds must go to these purposes, so capital investment in BiH, not only with the "Official Messenger" but also with other institutions. It is inadmissible that such funds are not necessarily used for the purposes it needs. With this amount of profits we have each year, we could build institutions within four to five years so that no business space would be leased for BiH institutions, but to build them from our own profits, i.e. from the funds of citizens and businesses involved in these ads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19590	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19591	Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, here's most of what I wanted to say, my predecessors said, so I'm going to cut short and say what's not said. Therefore, the Public Business "The Official Journal of BiH" has a specific legal position, so it has one kind of monopoly or exclusiveity, and from that fact, everything else actually arises. So it's that there are revenues that are relatively solid, I would say, and perhaps unnecessaryly large because the report on their business financially says that they have a profit of about 6-7 million marks each year, which is to greet. But also, when we have so many years of profits, another question arises: whether or not it is possible to think and to think, in my opinion, about reducing the price of services provided by this public company, which are again paid by interested companies, persons and citizens of this country. So, this company also performs a very important function, which is transparency, informs the public about all important activities, first this Parliament and other institutions of BiH, but also implements the Public Procurement Act, so... all competitions are announced. The price of the tender is not as controversial, in my opinion, as the price of access to information is. And, I think it's very interesting here to hear or to know, I've asked around and found out what the situation is in the environment. And I came to the conclusion that nowhere is so... 6 access to this information, especially public advertising for public procurement, as it is in our country. So, with us, all this, access to information, is paid. I think that's where we need to find the right measure, that this price isn't completely free, because it's not real, and also, this current price, I don't think it's real, it's unreal high. As far as the other part is concerned, therefore it is legitimate, etc., that is, of course, the standard in all the countries of the environment and in all the countries of Europe to make it absolutely free, it should be unquestionable for free. Of course, the "Official List" should do a lot on its own strengthening, strengthening internal capacities, that it must install good and quality programs, especially edit its website and create some kind of selected therefore access to a particular type of data. And that's why I think the role of the Council of Ministers is important, because this is a public enterprise, or the question is whether this regulation is entirely legal, but I'm not going to get into that part of the problem. Anyway, it is one of the BiH institutions that is in the power of the Council of Ministers and this parliament. And it is logical for the Council of Ministers, together with the management and management of this institution, to agree on a common policy on the development of this institution but, of course, also on the price and service policy. I'll repeat, here it's very important, to find a real balance between what's free and what's paid for, at which price is paid. So, the price of access to that information! That's very important. I advocate, of course, I think it's good that this institution is doing a good job, it needs to provide itself with space and I find it so very interesting and I'm going to refer one criticism to the company itself, i.e. this institution, if it's better said than the public enterprise, why didn't they at least use some of these funds to solve... the insurance of their own space for their work? I think it's a little irresponsible and non-domestic behavior to hold so much funds in a very bad way, while at the same time paying rent and doing business in areas that are very unconditional. On the other hand, at the Commission's session, it has been told from people in this house that they have problems of technical nature, so they are not able to even install a good and quality program for their website because light lines are not good enough or, I don't know, there are some technical problems in the transmission of this information, i.e. providing quality of these PTT services, so I think it's on leadership to solve this and actually build this institution and that it takes the place that it needs to be. About these technical issues, which are not only technical, about whether the Management Board or the Management Board is properly organised, whether it is in accordance with the law and not to be said, should be a commitment, that is, the conclusion of our commission, therefore, to regulate it in a legitimate manner. I don't know if all the people who have a mandate there are in a valid term. If they are not, they should be appointed by law as soon as possible to name new people, fill in the Management Board. It also takes account of the national structure of employees, which is ultimately a constitutional obligation. Something has improved, but it needs to be brought to be what it should be. And I also think that the initiative of our colleague, Mr. Huskić, is going in this direction, so around that bill, and that management, management of a public firm or the "Official List" institution and the Council of Ministers should be agreed on, I will repeat, most importantly, what is it and under what conditions is the right to access information and content published by this house. The proposal for Mr. Huskić's law is currently treating this issue, and I think it's a good thing that we haven't made a move that can be bad, have negative consequences primarily for the financial business of this house and bring it from a good, stable company, financially stable to another situation. 7 I need the Council of Ministers, together with management, to respond to these demands that we then make a solution in the law that will provide what I have already said, so transparent access to all information and under conditions that are realistic, objective and will not, so it will provide minimum costs to those who access information, ask for information, but have had enough income for the solid and smooth work of this public company.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19592	Thank you. The next one was announced by Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19593	Mr. Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues, guests, I will read a few sentences from this report before I say a few words. On page 16. - For the administration of the system as a whole, a specially developed app is used that contains a vizard to create a temple for the process or documents, to define users or user groups of relevant rights, and to fill in the other passwords used in the application. The public company NIO "The Official Journal of BiH" will use the content server (CMS), a modular internet based content management application on the Internet. CMS supports several content presentation platforms – web, PDA devices, mobile phones and more languages. Be-ha languages are also European languages and a large number of document formats, html, xml, rdf, rss, pdf, jpg, avi, mp3 etc. which can be stored at the document base. CMS categorizes all documents into a hilaric and dynamic structure and indexes them to the full text of the principle. For the creation of a visual part of the CMS website, the browser, I guess, has a based designer that allows by means of a temperate and expensive drop functionality fast and quality implementation of complete web pages based on documents. Page 18, here's how - The offered CMS solution should satisfy the following functionality: dynamic module, static module and mail form, given base form with administrative report, public report, data update possibility, out designer gif. Technical maintenance would only include adding a new functionality, i.e. allowing system administrators to maintain the entire website on their own. Now, he says -- besides the solutions mentioned above, he needs to satisfy the following functionality -- and then -- a two-way approach and a security key, a visitor counter, a possibility of functionality, etc. Now, if I hadn't read, and I didn't know this was a report on the work of the Public Enterprise, I'd think this is a script for some people who need to learn something about information, but it's actually a report on work that some MPs need to discuss, and some have nothing to do with IT. I guess that's why the Council of Ministers didn't even give its position, because some of them probably have their own, and some of them have nothing to do with IT, so people didn't even understand much in this report. It's about the very form of this report. I think that... it really doesn't make sense, with the full respect of the profession of the man who wrote this,... it's obvious that he knows it and has shown us he knows it, but I think there's a form in which the reports come to this Parliament and all BiH institutions are obliged to respect that form, there are certain rules and I don't see why this report would really be different from others. Or maybe that's why it's supposed to be different, because actually 8 was actually different or else the relationship to this paper was in the past tense. In fact, whether we were adopted or not, these reports were delivered to us every year. I have to say, we haven't adopted them so far, and no one's had a headache since we adopted them. We've come to certain conclusions that no one's head has ever been hurt either. That's why I'm the one who suggested it, and I'm going to read two conclusions about this report in the end. Of course, I absolutely support the views of our commission in the section that talk about the next jobs that need to be arranged in order for this company to have its status fully clearly defined, but also its behaviour in the coming time. It is not easy to find in this country, and as Comrade Radišić would say and beyond, an institution whose costs and expenses are lower than profits, so from net profits. So for 2007, this company had 4,804,795 KM costs, meaning total costs and expenditure, and when it was subtracted from the total income, we had a profit of 5,870,000. In itself, it is a bad indicator, bad because it shows that this company did not actually take care of the public interest, but the only motive of this company was to provide as much of the gain as possible, which here is something down from 2006, but here is the income plan that was meant at the same level, so also then we knew that we had more profit than all expenses and expenditures, that it was the result of the monopoly position and we continued to work with the same practice. Therefore, I conclude that it is less important whether we adopt this report or not. Of course, we could go in here right now, and I don't want to go into some numbers, even though I could, let's say, see now and in these costs as to whether it's real or not, that, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, print a commercial book a little bit in a circulation of 60 pieces, if we know, so... if we know that it can be found in any bookstore or, I don't know, a manual to pass a general knowledge exam in 100 pieces, etc. I guess if we were to look at each of the jobs achieved now, then we'd probably have a number of jobs that didn't come or don't have a share in this profit. But I'm saying it's a matter of management and I don't want to get into management business. But what I want to enter is the fact, so here we are for a few years now, not to adopt this report, we return, and ultimately we get the same result. That's why I suggested two conclusions here. First conclusion: - The Council of Ministers undertakes that, with reports delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly, a written position on these reports. We regularly have some reports discussed by the Council of Ministers, we are informed that he was considering them, but we have no written position of the Council of Ministers on the report that can be used by Parliament. In the end, it could be a guideline to Parliament in its commitment to the report. Second conclusion: - A statement on the report on the work and financial operations of the Public Enterprise of the NEO "Official Journal of the BIH" for 2007 is postponed until management and management of enterprises, and the Council of Ministers shall not deliver their views after observations made in the debate at the House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19594	I thank the honourable representative. The next was reported by the first deputy chairman, respected Beriz Belkić. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19595	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, guests, media, therefore, and I have been among those who have been able to see these reports for a long time and the truth is this is what Novaković is talking about. In most situations, they have been returned, or have not received the support needed here, or have been adopted. However, in this particular case we have sought our conclusion from March of this year, we have asked for a report. This report was adopted by the Council of Ministers. I agree with Mr. Novaković's proposed conclusion that it is necessary for the Council of Ministers to give and some comment with each report, whether it adopts or does not adopt it, but it would be good to argue, to introduce us into the problem perhaps in a more specific way. But in this situation, in this particular case of the Council of Ministers, at least according to these reports that I read, it adopted this report that we have on the table today. So also respecting the fact that our competent commission, as seen in this report, has also on several occasions considered this report and in some ways supported it, of course with the fact that there are voices that have been abstentions, and not against, gives us a chance to discuss the problem in a serious way, returning, in fact, towards the essence of the problem. I have no intention of being a lawyer for the Official List. It is certain that there are a number of precise remarks made here and from the point of view of prices, costs, number of employees, structures etc. But here's what Mr. Novaković quoted from the report, and I was asked to quote something in the introduction, where he was talking about basic activity. Read carefully and you will see that the basic activity of this public enterprise includes the Federation. So they publish the rules adopted in BiH, so also in BiH institutions, the Federation and the Canton. What does this tell us from both a monopoly and a public interest point of view? So the previous question that we here have to resolve is: Is there any support from RS that we have a public enterprise of this kind of content and activity, and then to arrange it according to all that we've discussed here? I think it's by definition the function that the state needs to provide, of course, in a way that we can agree on how it will function. Therefore, I also do not think that we will solve the problem by adopting or not adopting this report, but this report may be a cause. In the wake of these conclusions proposed by the Commission, it is true that we have proposed something similar before, but why not update, so to speak, and make a serious political pressure on the Council of Ministers, a team before adopting this report, to finally resolve the status through amendments and additions to the Official Journal Act. We have in the procedure some changes and additions etc. But to assess whether that's enough. So, I recommend that we still accept this report with recommendations from the Commission that are not disputed; it is that the people of the RS, I suppose, were abstentions, but they were neither against it. And put on that subject that... we try to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19596	I thank Mr. Belkić. The following has been reported by Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19597	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of NGOs, means of information, the international community, dear guests, so be careful, this report seems to be in the continuity of some previous reports and is likely to be thought that 10 will pass as in recent years and will be forgotten in itself very quickly. If that happens this time, then, half a year has passed, it could happen this time. I will not repeat what my fellow MPs have said, but I will say some of my remarks and some suggestions. It is not by chance that he was written in such a language, that is, in this form of writing, is it that you want not to draw attention to something, as this report should not be distracted and most likely to go through it without discussion, but here it has failed, then this is being done as some professional expressions that are less important and than what should have been written in this Work Report, etc. But, my Bog, and it's... it's perfectly normal and perfectly normal that we know this issue of information and foreign languages, too. Win? Well, of course it has to be profit, that it can't be loss, because it's based on monopoly and they're going to dictate their income to the extent that it's necessary. Now the question is, income isn't even a problem and profit isn't a problem, but the problem is how to use that profit and whether it should be used at all in some other, more transparent way or in this way. But I'm not happy about this profit because it's not on any real basis for the social standard of citizens or any other economic mirror of this country. And I'd be happy and overjoyed if we were to discuss some kind of report, whether... that's what we report on the work of some manufacturing company in which we're not in charge or in charge, it doesn't matter at all, and that's where we realized that there's a profit. This is what would make BiH happy and not gain in such a monopolitical enterprise, but it is not only wrong in itself, but it is the system that set it up. Furthermore, what else is my remark, besides what my colleagues have brought out, and what goes in favor of really being monopolistic. About a year ago, on the basis of remarks from the field, I asked a parliamentary question, and asked: Is it possible for him to be more transparent, more flexible, especially when it comes to advertisements and notices? Short answer: Impossible, our editorial scheme is like this and how any ad arrives so it will go etc. And watch out for something, the one who wants to find his ad that he put in "The Official Messenger", has to lose an hour and a half, if that road is a little more of those ads and notices, to find what he put in the ad. And it was my proposal, on the basis of the proposals from the field, that they systematiced it in municipalities, cities, by the problems of the affairs it publishes, etc. etc. To go deaf about such a question that is really serious, then you can really see that they are not thinking about their users for which he exists, because he exists because of the users, not the users because of him! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19598	Thank you. The following has been reported by a respected representative, Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19599	Gentlemen, the chairman of the esteemed colleagues, the esteemed guests, turns out to be the three of us who signed out of the opposition, but I did make all my remarks on the Commission and last time we discussed this issue and now. What's indicative is that nothing in that direction has changed. And here today I support all of these conclusions that my colleagues have previously made, not to repeat, that we have one firm that is funded by VAT funds, meaning the funds that we bring and apply to, and that we have no opportunity to influence that. We adopted or did not adopt this report, so next year we will have a similar opportunity and objections that we had 11 and last year that what is the goal of this company, the publishing house, that we do not have improvements, and that we are spending ruthlessly millions of figures. This is the problem if we say that all companies in the RS and BiH must publish their ads via the "Official Messenger", is that, that is, their way and give funds and, on the other hand, they cannot affect the price of advertising, and we are fighting for competitiveness. So we encourage the monopoly behind whom we consciously or unconsciously stand. And if today we have the opportunity to spend so many figures on renting rooms, and on the other hand we have to applaud on the surplus that this company has achieved, then there is really a chance that we can understand this confusion and that we can realize that the Council of Ministers really supports the incredible, illogical business and the incredible system that it needs to be arranged and sent to us, and not that we are now giving... comments, that we are giving suggestions as to how it should look and how it should behave "the official messenger". And indeed in this direction we ask the Council of Ministers to support these demands and conclusions that have been made and, on the other hand, to find ways to bring the relationship and the monopoly that cannot be adopted next year safely. If we miss it, next year we'll have an even more controversial story. And, on the other hand, if we spend so much money, then through the Management Board and work, we need to find a way for this institution to have its own rooms, have its own editorial policy, have a real economic price. So, if we're going to discuss this, then the Council of Ministers along with us should find a real economic price and we don't mind and we should support every good work in all institutions and, in particular, wish that all our institutions do a positive job. But not on a monopoly, but on a clean manager's profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19600	Thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Controversy? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19603	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the Council of Ministers, guests, MPs, here we are, in front of ourselves, meaning the agenda item we have a report on the work and financial operations of the Public Business News and Issue Organisation "The Official Journal of BiH" for 2007 with the fact that we also received the 2008 Business Plan in materials. So we should define ourselves probably about both documents. Also, what my predecessors already are, someone said that someone did, so I want to remind you that the Council of Ministers adopted, discussed and adopted this report (which we have) on work and financial business. I don't know if there are... representatives of 12 companies here, it's good to hear these discussions. I ask the question of the role of our MPs, the role of Parliament in the debate on these reports and business plans. How many public enterprises are there where the founder of the BiH institution is to discuss and not discuss them, is there, can we make a system, which is the role of Parliament, which I can have ambition with stories about employees, about salaries within one of the public enterprises? I really, as an MP, don't have those ambitions. I think we also have responsibility for other affairs and responsibilities, and what the Council of Ministers is supposed to do to which we are asking the question here is: Why has it been so many years, if things aren't right, through the Council of Ministers? I want to commend this report here. Here, thank Bog, we have public companies that make profits and do positive business, that people receive salaries, that they pay taxes, and that we have this report. The conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly was to deliver and that we received this report which is really clear to me, concise, precise and all that should be affirmatively said about one report. And in that sense, I really commend this report. And I ask the question, here are the representatives of the RS political parties who I see speak negatively about this report, certainly, that's their right, but here's a public company that makes a profit and that's the problem in that company by the stories. Before that, we had a public or service report or BHT service and the main problem was the loss of those who were. So there's a problem with losses and that's the main problem. We have a company that makes a profit, the problem is profit! In fact, I think that something else is a problem, I am not going to open up here the possibility of a replica, and I would conclude my debate with the acceptance and agreement with this report, especially the Commission's position and, in particular, with another view to inaugurating the Council of Ministers that if there is a status and any other need for things to be fixed in this company and that it is done.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19604	Ambassador Remzi Kadrić. I'm sorry, Kadrić, replica Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19605	Dear Chairman, gentlemen from NGOs, media, guests, Mr. Minister, ladies from the Members of Parliament, the replica only goes one two sentences to Mr. Nanić's presentation. I don't want to speak on behalf of my colleagues from the RS from other political parties, but right now, let's clarify a dilemma that hangs in the air somewhere. We're not against this company, or public institutions or public enterprises, whatever you want to call it. And in our presentations, we really want to point out and help this institution get on its feet. That's why I'm going to support one piece of it. I'm going to support the whole discussion. I will rely on a part of Mr. Belkić's exposure, to really give this institution state importance. From the point of view of the interests of institutions and other organisations, municipalities, don't get me wrong, this isn't a blow to the "Official Messenger" or BiH, but it's not relevant to publish canton 10 regulations in this "Official Messenger". 9, for the community, say, Zvornik or I don't know anyone else. So, to make this a real state institution and to define everything there, and of course it's not mentioned, but I'm just going to take the opportunity not to take a lot of time later, that's where I need to start from the board of directors. The chairman of the board of directors is a man of the palace. He has nothing to do with it, but he has another. The man's been retired for 13 years. The man was the director here of Parliament's Joint Affairs Service. I'm not going to say that they set it up, that this is going on, because it's good to be president of the board of directors in such an institution. Does that have to be the Council of Ministers...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19606	You went into the sphere of discussion, you answered the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19607	Well, here's what I'm gonna use to keep you from getting bored. So, I agree with everyone who wants the Council of Ministers to give this institution the importance, and don't accuse us of being against the RS, at least when it comes to SNSD, and I see that colleagues didn't say anything ugly, but just to advance the work of this institution. And the problem isn't money, I hope we make 150 million and some are monopolies, but where we spend it and how we solve the problems that are clear inside this house.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19608	Nice to hear from you. Remzija Karić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19609	I thank you, Deputy Chairman. I would briefly just comment on this proposal for a conclusion delivered to us by the Finance and Budget Committee. In this first sentence, it says, among other things, that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the BiH Council of Ministers to resolve the legal status of "the Official Journal of BiH" and to carry out the procedure for the appointment of the new Management Board in the coming period. I think this... part, words: resolves the legal status of "The Official Journal of BiH", and those words should be deleted. The legal status of this "Official List" has been resolved. So, it is clear that it is the Public Enterprise of the Newspaper Organisation "The Official Journal of BiH". So his legal status is resolved. So, the Public Enterprise has its organs, directors, board of directors. Therefore, this part of the word from... this proposal should be deleted. So, words: resolve the legal status of "The Official Journal of BiH and those words should be deleted. It should therefore be stated that the Council of Ministers shall, in accordance with the law, carry out the procedure for the appointment of a new Management Board, etc. The rest of this, these sentences should be left behind in this conclusion. Therefore, if necessary, I will submit an amendment to this proposal for a conclusion. So this really shouldn't stand, because it raises other issues that are related to this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19610	It's easier to suggest your conclusions. So, MP Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19611	Therefore, the Commission proposed: 14 1) To implement the process of appointing the new Management Board of the "Official Journal of BiH", 2) to consider the possibility of deploying the surplus income of the "Official Journal of BiH" for capital investments, i.e. to build a building, 3) to review the prices of their services, 4) to review the ability to print "Official Messenger" in one of the languages for which the subscriber and 5 were designated... to enable the printing of "Publisher of Public Procurement" in special editions of "Official Messenger of BiH". So what we've been listening to here for an hour and what's been going on for an hour! We're trying to convince people of the Official List that they need to build a building. I don't think people have been able to read this material. On page 9, they say that the current business facility is not "the Official Journal", definitely does not meet the space or technical needs, so at a session held in 6.12.2007, they concluded on the need to purchase an adequate business space and therefore allocated 10 million marks for this purpose. You can find that on page 53 under 025. Material resources in preparation. That they singled out 10,674,000 this year and then explained it on page 54. The increase relates to an investment investment that will resolve the business space, as stated in the Reinvestment Decision. That's right. So, we're spinning without need, we're taking our time, you've got a proposal from the Commission, five points that cover everything that you're discussing today, you're criticizing, you're looking for. The SDA will support what Mr. Kadrić said, because I think there is no need... for one of these conclusions, everything else is contained here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19612	Thank you. The following is the registered distinguished representative Bajazit Jašarević. He gave up. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Appointing the Ombudsman to the Ombudsman Institution for Human Rights of BiH (proposed list of the Ad hoc committee for the appointment of three Ombudsmans in the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution) Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that at the 13th session of July 2007, we had on the agenda the appointment of the Ombudsman in the Human Rights Institution of BiH on the proposal of the Ad hoc commission to elect the Ombudsman. At that time, candidates from the Serb and Bosniak people did not get an entity majority, so after agreeing to the College as committees at the 15th session they definitely did not get a majority in the House to be appointed. At the 18th session of the House, the Ad hoc committee for the appointment of the Ombudsman in the Human Rights Institution of BiH was appointed. On 17 June 2008, the Ad hoc commission submitted a report on the establishment of the candidate list for the appointment of the Ombudsman. You got that material. I will remind you of part of Article 3. Law amending and supplementing the Law on Human Rights of BiH, amending Article 8. The law of 15 ombudsmen. Article (6) of this article reads: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly will also appoint three ombudsmans in the Ombudsman Institution and a term of six years. Simeone appoints and resolves the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH by majority of votes in accordance with the rules of procedure on the work of each home. Article (7) of the same article reads: The Twins are named from three constituent nations, Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian, which does not exclude the possibility of appointing from the order of others. The Ad hoc commission in its report has drawn up a candidate list from all three constituent nations and others. I'll read the candidate list about how it's made up in the report. The result of the candidate is determined according to the candidate's score. The candidate's order is determined according to the candidate's score. The order of the Serbian people suggests: Rada Kafedžić, Ljubomir Sandić, Biljana Simeunović, Vitomir Popović, Branko Morait, Branka Inić, Branka Kolar-Kolar-Mijatović and Drago Višnjić. From the order of the Croatian people: Branka Raguž, Ivo Bradvica, Željka Klobučar, Mariofil Ljubić, Vesna Tančica and Ilija Ćorić. From the Bosniak people's order: Jasminka Džumhur, Amira Krehić, Esad Muhibić, Enes Hašić, Zijad Hasić, Emina Halilović, Zinka Halilović, Halil Lagumdžija, Muhidin Hajdarević. And it's Vera Jovanović from the others. Those are the proposed candidates. With the Ad hoc report, you have also received the résumés of the proposed candidates. In the meantime, i.e. On the first day of the meeting of this house, Enes Hašić delivered a notice that he is withdrawing his candidacy for the Ombudsman. As the esteemed chairman of this commission, Azra Hadžiahmetović, was in charge of this commission's position to propose what I have just read, I will only add, since she... announced her delay at this session, that the Commission had decided to propose to the House that the election of the Ombudsman be carried out by a secret vote. Here, so much in the introduction. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19614	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I think it is too important at this point to stress the importance of the Ombudsman institution, both for the protection of human rights and for the European path on which BiH recently stepped by signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. It is also too high to stress as much as we in BiH, including in this parliament, we hold little to human rights and to the European path to BiH. Remember enough how long it takes us to implement the Law on the Ombudsmans, the Law on the Ombudsmans of BiH and how much we want to give to this declared independent institution persistently and at all costs political omens and significance. Today, in BiH, we do not have the Ombudsman's institution or, rather, we have it on paper, but this Ombudsman institution is out of office. At the level of the state at the Ombudsman Institution for a long time, there has been unhappiness and disorder. Federal ombudsmen were almost three years old in the so-called occupancy. the technical or transition mandate, and certain regional ombudsmen's offices have practically died. Because of this situation, and to a large extent, it has been devalued both the rating and authority of the Ombudsman in the public, whose rights should be protected. Who needs this state and why this is the case, we probably have different views on it, but for this responsibility is also borne by this Parliament. We had just over six months ago a failed attempt to appoint three ombudsmen to the Ombudsman's Institute for the Protection of Human Rights in BiH. From this perspective, I don't know if it's a greater shame that the Ombudsmans are not appointed or that the greater damage would occur if they were appointed in the way that it was tried. I was one of the MPs who, just over 16 months ago, made more remarks in this house about the work of the Ad hoc Commission on the appointment of the Ombudsman and openly opposed the intention of the Ombudsman being appointed by the criteria of political similarity and membership. The Ombudsmans were not then appointed, of course, not because of me and my remarks but because of the lack of political consensus of the ruling majority over personal solutions to the Ombudsman. As we can see, the election procedure of the Ombudsman has been renewed and today we have a report from the Ad hoc Commission and we have, of course, numerous recommendations and actors to finally appoint the Ombudsmans. I, too, must stress this time that it is inappropriate and incomprehensible that in the six-member Ad hoc commission of both Parliament's homes there could be no place for a member of this commission in the opposition's order. This fact immediately leaves a stain on the selection of the Ombudsman and confirms that nothing is left to the case in order to make political similarity the main criterion for the appointment of the Ombudsman this time. Despite this incomprehensible handicap of the Ad hoc commission, I must say that it has significantly improved its work in this second correctional mandate. In a democratically appropriate manner, a tender has been launched, envious transparency has been demonstrated in the work of the Commission and, most importantly, a new approach to the appointment of the Ombudsman has also attracted a decent number of professionally and morally similar candidates for BiH's Ombudsmans. Unfortunately, in my opinion, all of this was good at work, the Ad hoc commission has ruined the way BiH's candidates were scored and ranked. In this regard, the Commission has properly established the criteria for the score of candidates, consisting of points based on interviews, working experience in the legal profession, moral reputation and acquired experience in the field of protection of human rights. The criteria are fully in line with the role and importance of the Ombudsman, but the way in which the fighting and ranking of candidates is done is the right political performance and cartoons from the election of the Ombudsman. I have made detailed insight into the biographies and references of all candidates and cannot be taken to the impression that a number of candidates have been practically hit by artistic impressions, party resemblance and belonging to a particular lobby instead of the criteria set. In this way, candidate reviews are to the full, instead of criteria and the score of facts, left to subjectivism and political sympathy of members of the Ad hoc Commission. Everything goes in favor of this way, instead of the Ombudsman, the protector of human rights, we can only choose political good people who will be materially well cared for and who, instead of human rights, will take more care not to object to their political bosses. As a man and as an MP in this play, I do not want to participate, because I think human rights and the choice of the BiH Ombudsman are too serious to make the rules of the farce and cheap political performance. I do not understand the position of candidates on the list of others, and thus is motivated by a certainly high-quality candidate such as Mrs Vera Jovanović to get an Ombudsman candidate on the list that is practically out of competition and out of the choice. Despite all the recommendations to choose ombudsmans in this situation, I personally think that the only thing I can do for human rights is not to participate in this choice of ombudsmans and in any vote in which the outcome is agreed in advance. I understand the importance of electing an Ombudsman for BiH's European path, but the way we are trying to do it is no use for a European path and even less for human rights in BiH. Finally, I must also look back on the address of Deputy High Representative Rafi Gregorijan and the head of the OSCE Mission in BiH, Daglas Dejvison, who sent MPs to parliament at this important moment. I understand their good intentions to end the election process of 17 ombudsmen, but I cannot agree with their finding that this commission has done an objective assessment of the candidates. I am sure that in their countries the expertise, experience and moral reputation of the Ombudsman candidates are not evaluated in this way. A number of ombudsmen from the Bosniak people's ranks also silenced some details in their biography. So Mrs Džumhur, first-ranked, silenced that she was a member of the Management Board of the Missing Persons Institute. One candidate silenced that he was and is still officially an Ombudsman in the RS, etc. The parliamentary majority's intentions to choose political-like ombudsmen today will be fully revealed if this home is declared individually for the Ad hoc list. I think this secret statement will contribute to that, too. Then in that case, we ask ourselves, was the Ad-hoc commission ever needed, what was the score at all, and then the political background of the ombudsmen's election really unquestionable? So, personally in a play like this, I don't want to participate and I don't want to be part of the story of the alleged democratic election of the Ombudsman, because this is, indeed, what's prepared here, a classic political performance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19615	The following is the registered distinguished representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19616	So, the SDA will be against a secret vote. I think that so at a small door something that should be an exception turns into a rule, and it's very important things. The ombudsmen are people, although they belong, whether, we choose them from different nations, are people that every citizen of this country should be fully convinced that they will defend his human and civil rights. And the main points were not collected in front of this commission, but they had the opportunity to classify these points to be ombudsmen, to be protectors of human rights, they had the opportunity in some inhuman times, which we had here in BiH 15 years ago, and in inhuman times they were supposed to show that they were human, did that black background take their light... to show themselves in those times. Here, we all know that today, we're making a secret vote for one man who, in these inhuman times, didn't behave humanly because he threw people out of work who didn't belong to his people. Well, then, here these days he threatened to put a ball in his head, that this one deserved such a thing, but for his sake, this one today... everything is real. There's not enough strength and courage to tell him, you hear, you're not for the Ombudsman, you might be for something else, but you're not for the Ombudsman! So I think we're going in one line... of less resistance and it's not good and it can turn that precedent into a rule. It is that I will be against a secret vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19617	I thank you, the next is the distinguished replica, the esteemed representative Jovičić. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19618	Well, here, Mr. Izetbegović, let's get this dilemma straight. The SNSD club is not behind Vita Popović. So that you don't mention one man, which is why last time, uh, that one, here's what you need to know right now is we're not standing. But something else is about our Ad hoc commission. It's just amazing that people judge those who know the most about human rights and this problem. I was under the circumstances of a commission – I was frantic about the election of a new auditor. So we judge people, whether they know foreign language or I don't know what! Niko of us knew. Or I don't know any other thing. So we ourselves put ourselves in an unfavourable position so that the media criticises us in every possible and impossible way and they're right, they're absolutely right. So, I am for transparency and the public in the work of this Parliament. These Ombudsmans for human rights don't have to be known to us, but they must be known to every citizen of this country because they protect their rights that we violate. To be more absurd, in this whole exomonia, so it's not about one man, we were in that first variant of that man being, not answering one side, here we are so that we wouldn't be a remethyl factor, so that you wouldn't keep saying that we're arguing, it's in our interest to function BiH institutions. And don’t ever honor us with the story of the “officer ” and everything. We're just asking that all these institutions be placed on healthy feet, on healthy legs. And here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to support these exposés from the SDS. Niko of them ever challenged that story before, neither will this one. But we ask that it be clearly put on what is the state institution behind which we stand and give it legitimacy, and that those who are before us are much more invited, i.e.. Council of Ministers, put it in order. That's right, here's the case. So don't prejudge, here's not going to happen on good luck today. I hope after a year or a year or a half we pick these people and they start working.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19619	Replica, the esteemed representative of Kalabić, then the esteemed representative Ahmetović, then the esteemed representative Ajanović. They're all replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19620	Well, my replica, I'm a little late, here's to Mr. Dolić's exposure, and it's normal to disagree with that, because I know he's preparing a good exposure, thoroughly and read them by habit. Today it seemed to me like someone else's text that he was tasked with reading, here to us, because I don't think I know how to end the selection of the Ombudsman, but I know by this moment that the Ad hoc commission has done everything in its power in accordance with the legal regulations to prepare this for good. So, by this point, it's not right to say that we've prepared a play. Whether this will turn out to be a performance beyond this commission, I don't know, but this commission has certainly prepared all the conditions for it to be a correct and transparent process to the extent that the legal regulations require and in some way ask this commission to do so. I mean, if we had done it in the grade, it would have been interesting, given that on that commission they were off the record and some others were giving grades, it would have been interesting to say something about their grades. And they were very much able to match up with the evaluations of the members of this committee. So, I don't know how else to secure this process, unless Mr. Dolić has a list of candidates he's looking for most. That's the only way I see it. We're legally required to choose while it's here. If we change the law, so does someone else's 19, I don't mind. And I don't know how to invent a better process. And I agree that anyone who wishes to pass his candidates throws trees at those who will have to, the parliamentary majority of whatever, just as she is, and Ad hoc, she must choose the Ombudsmans. And I think, again, I'm not going into that part of it, but I don't think it's right to say that I'm not going to repeat it, but I think there have been assessments from different sides that Ad hoc is a commission and time and all that she's done and one job is to prepare, to prepare a Parliament that is the only one who is authorized to choose, not even entering the grades -- the Commission has given the grades. And the fact is that by law, it is the sovereign right of the MPs today to choose, choose the Ombudsmans. And there's nothing you can do to limit it to, with no grades, with no grades. As long as it's such a regulation, it's so, and then it's not right to think it's decisive there, neither do I, the system. What system of points in the world isn't subjective? Then it would be called math, not grades. I mean, it's like that. That's why I don't think there are any objections. As far as this commission is concerned, I think that it has prepared, and what will be the result, in the end, it does not depend on just one number of MPs, it depends on all MPs who have the right and opportunity to create the process, to choose the best in their assessment. And as for what Mr. Izetbegović said, I think here is always the problem of equal treatment, and always the problem of equal approach and that we will still, still, still have that kind of dilemma. If the problem is with Vita Popović, then it should always point out on the other side whether the disciplinary prosecutor of the BiH Army is the most appropriate person for the Ombudsman. In a dirty war where all three sides of what happened and where The Hag fixed what the military didn't do, I think it should be correct to say that no such person was, I don't know, fit, then we're talking about the same measure. And about the elimination of only one, then we always come to a dead end that we shouldn't come to. We have, after all, institutions that need to do their job and that we are less and less in the role of the judge and that we evaluate and give our judgment on events.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19621	The next is Replic, the esteemed representative Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19622	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, since Mr. Jovičić said the SNSD Club is not behind Mr. Popović, then there is no reason to vote in secret. So, we need to make a public statement here and if there is a secret vote, then there will probably be someone who will vote for Mr Popović and then you can't figure out who he is. I wouldn't want to be in a position to have someone say tomorrow that maybe I'm one of those. And what Mr Kalabić said was that we did not eliminate the other side, so there are candidates from the order of the Serb people that I personally know and for whom I will gladly vote today if there is a public vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19623	The next is Honorable Representative Ajanović, a replica of the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19624	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, thank you. 20 I wanted to check in with Mr. Dolić at first, but I thought at that point it didn't matter that much, after all, and I have to at least... but I'm going to look back at the part of his discussion. First of all, and we don't all have the same opinion that the Ombudsmans didn't do well and that this institution that was... it was chaos and I don't know what else. I'm saying that the Ombudsman institution when it was created, especially right after the war, that these people did a good job, that they had certain things they did, did right, because it was a very difficult time to protect human rights without saying,...not to say just to protect. However, what would I like to say here? I'm here to say that for me as an individual, as an MP, it can't be too far-fetched and the only measure of the Ad hoc score. Because if that's the only criterion, then Parliament shouldn't even be discussing it, but it should be said to adopt the first one: the Ad hoc commission said by its point to do so! I personally think that this Ad hoc commission, ranking certain... people said that they meet or do not meet the conditions to be... ombudsmen. The first and main criteria for which we can think are just... work on the ombudsmen so far. I can't say in advance that someone who wasn't ombudsmen that he would protect my rights, but those who are, who I know how they worked and how they protected them. Therefore, for me, the first criterion is this ombudsmen's work so far. That's one thing. And another thing that is very important, whether we wanted or not, accepted or did not accept people as they referred to the creation of state and state institutions. Because that's one of the essential criteria. There's no human rights if there's no state. There are no human rights unless there are state institutions. We can tell stories, theoretically debate, articles to talk about, I don't know which universities to teach about human rights, if we didn't... create a state and we didn't create state institutions, and individuals who weren't on the lists working in that direction, then for me they don't meet certain criteria, in my opinion, and I won't, for such people, I won't give my vote. For that reason, just one more sentence and I won't do it anymore, I think a secret vote – someone loved it or didn't like it, aside from transparency, the story of transparency should be transparent this, transparent that – the most democratic right of all people is a secret vote. And if I go to any function, and if I go to any choice, I prefer to be voted by secret people. Because that shows whether I'm actually what I think of myself, or what others think of me. Therefore, there is no need to fear either a secret or a public vote. So, on the one hand, we have a secret vote that allows people to express their views democratically, which in all countries of the world is the greatest act of democracy, a secret vote, otherwise the elections would not be secret, but be public, and on the other hand, we have again the transparency that certain people are fighting for. And what exactly is transparency? It's again a question of their view of transparency, of my view and of other people. So to be brief, I'll vote on my conscience. I'm not voting on political... implications or any political one. After all, in democratic parties, so is our party, it is said that we can vote on our conscience for certain people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19625	Replica: Honorable representative Dolić. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19626	Replic is a colleague of Kalabić. First, you're right that I prepare myself for my exposure in detail, in which way it's my business. I've never expressed my opinion on anyone's orders here, I guess that's obvious. What I think about the work of the Ad hoc commission, I also said completely transparently and openly. Since I'm... disappointed that six members of this committee don't have a single opposition, I guess that's enough to talk about. I said where this commission did a good job, I think she made a mistake in the part where I said so. Here in this home we are convinced that there are specialists in directing political performances. Those political plays... and I'm forced to watch, but don't ask me to applaud those plays. I guess I have the right and I present... transparently my opinion and my view of all things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19627	Dear Representative Džaferović: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19628	Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, we are deeply convinced that there is actually a more democratic way of voting in this situation. And I just want it, it's not a replica of my esteemed colleague Ajanović, just to say that it can't be generally said that the secret declaration is the most democratic form of statement. We need to look at the situation, when, in my humble knowledge and court, the bearer of sovereignty, the citizen of this country, decides, then he has to secretly decide and he decides secretly in the elections. But when we, as representatives of that sovereignty, secretly elected, decide here, then we need to decide publicly and it is more democratic that citizens, those who are us..., see their right to see how we have decided here in Parliament. And that's the point. And don't get these two things mixed up, and that's why we chose to look, that is, to oppose the Ad hoc commission's proposal to do this vote in secret, because we don't think that's right. I've been doing a little research on other systems, and believe that things are going to that point, where there's a secret statement, I've been going, so I've been doing this question, and I've asked you why this institute still exists. For example, the answer is: in one country when it was created: a secret vote wanted to free MPs from the influence of the monarch, at the same time as they were created within the monarchy of parliamentary democracy. That's why it happened. We have citizens and we have to answer that question publicly to them. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19629	Thank you. Replica: Honorable representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19630	Here, I think it's a different one, but it's on multiple speakers, so I'll try to be brief. What did my colleague Dolić say? As far as I know, the citizens of this country, different institutions, international, domestic and all others, are asking Parliament, from the House of Representatives to choose the Ombudsmans, they are not asking the majority here. Nowhere does it say that the parliamentary majority is required to choose the Ombudsman. 22 He asks the House of Representatives to choose the Ombudsmans. And anyone who's a member of the House of Representatives must have some obligation to participate or to say that he doesn't. I mean, it's not that controversial. As far as I know, most of them aren't wanted anywhere. As for the plea, Mr. Džaferović performed one theory, but I don't think it's true. If they asked the citizens to vote publicly, they would see the resistance coming, because the secret vote has its value and it is one democratic fluid and none of it needs to escape. A sovereign right precisely by such a secret vote was given to the MP himself to sovereignly decide which way he would vote. And if he decides one way or the other, it's all democratic. So there shouldn't be any objections. When it is more appropriate in which situation, the House of Representatives decides on it, but in one situation and another, it is democratic, as MPs decide, and they know why they have one or the other vote. They're gonna have the opportunity to do it, to choose it. As if the only influence was a monarch. As if there are no other influences today that the MPs also want to protect themselves from. They're entitled to it, and I think it's the opposite. I can say the remark that a public vote can sometimes be the basis for a certain kind of pressure on the MP. The MP was elected sovereignly to decide without pressure and without any objections from the party, and everyone has the right to agree or disagree. As far as all these stories about Vita Popović, a man who has been properly run, met all the conditions and ranked, as far as I know it is the current Ombudsman BiH. And it will stand to say that it is the Ombudsman of BiH, that he is elected here, that he is chosen by several parties, by all nations, and I don't know what happened suddenly, so now suddenly some other story. Where was that story before? So it's a completely legal candidate who can be elected today. He doesn't have to, and he can be chosen. And I don't think there should be any assumption about it that he's more controversial or controversial than other candidates. Everyone's right to decide. He's in the most legitimate competition completely legitimate and unlike others he's a chosen Ombudsman, who's obviously never bothered anyone before. It's only when we have to choose a new one, it's come to mind, normally, and it's kind of a campaign, so it can bother and be chosen by someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19631	Replica: Honorable representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19632	You keep trying, so from the session to the session, that my sincere efforts to explain something, not pretending at all that you accept it or don't accept it, I can give it to you, here I have another one, no problem at all,... trying to actually caricate it in some way. I just want to let you know that that way you won't be able to stamp me and my attitudes out. You'll probably manage to stamp yourself and your attitudes, and that's already your problem, that's not my problem. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19633	Anyone else in the mood for a replica? So far, no. The following has been reported for the debate, distinguished representative Denis Bećirović. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19634	I, first of all, really want to say that I am partially surprised by these numerous replicas of the Party for BiH, and... I am also going to say why they surprise me. Namely, the Ad hoc commission was formed. The commission appointed representatives of certain parties, and I suppose that the commission did not perform as independent candidates but as representatives of its political parties and represented their political parties in the commission. In the commission, to be more precise, there are four ruling SNSD parties, the Party for BiH, the SDA and HDZ. The truth works here, too, should be stressed that we are also discussing today the report delivered by this Ad hoc commission to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. And that is why it would be good to return to the agenda point and recall that the task of this Ad hoc committee to appoint three ombudsmen to the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution was to prepare and publish a public appointment competition, and then, after that, the procedures carried out, establish a list of candidates. The conditions of the public competition have been established by this commission under the law. The public competition was announced, as we know, in February, the deadline for applications expired somewhere in March and around 26 candidates applied to the public competition. As presented in the Report, it is very important to emphasise, the Commission has considered each application individually and in detail from each candidate who has applied. And, among other things, the Commission has led us to conclude from those 26 candidates that only one candidate does not meet the formal conditions of the public competition. It's about candidate Rasemi Mehagić. This was determined by this Ad hoc committee, which set out a proposal for a list of candidates at a session on 17 June 2008, and here we are talking about it today at the House of Representatives session. I would like to say firstly that the choice of Ombudsman is the necessity of BiH, especially if we bear in mind that in no European country in the last 13 years we have had such a massive and drastic form of human rights violations as in BiH. That is probably why this should have been done significantly before, but also to ask perhaps one question who is responsible, why do we not have this very important institution in BiH for so long? However, the time spent if we had at least taken advantage of quality, would have been at least a little comforting in the end, but as we can see, the time lost obviously did not help. I must say that on this list of candidates there are some completely unacceptable candidates for the institution that should protect and defend the human rights of BiH citizens. Not to talk about what the benchmarks were, whether they were delivered to MPs, these criteria, etc., but the question is, how is it even possible for this candidate list to have this candidate under regular number four? It's about Mr. Vitomir Popović. The question arises as to what the members of the Ad hoc commission, representatives of the four ruling political parties, were doing when they included this candidate on the Institution's list, is it, the Ombudsman who should protect human rights. It seems that members of the Ad hoc commission have not helped even dozens of evidence in the media, and even the video that we have seen several times in BiH, what is being told to the media in BiH. Therefore, I also believe that this proposal is a slap on the Bosnian-Herzegovina democracy, a slap on the Ombudsman's institution for human rights, and that this must be the degradation and discredition of this institution. It is simply amazing that no one from this commission has asked a question of a number of media inscriptions that speak of individual figures. Thanks to this commission, I must say that Mr. Vitomir Popović is also today a legitimate candidate on the list, and the whole state knows very well what this man is, to leave this part of the war past, to take only in the last few years what has been going on, that it is public, whether, for which there is video evidence, video, he has ordered that one of the journalists in this country deserve a bullet in the forehead. When we all know what was going on and what people were talking about, I wonder if the members of this committee didn't know or didn't want to know. 24 I also ask the question Would it have happened in a European country, if something had happened as drastic as what I was talking about earlier, could he be a candidate for anything, not just... a candidate, or an institution of the Ombudsman who should protect the human rights of the citizens of BiH? Regardless of the outcome of today's vote, I think this is already a great shame that this has even taken place in this stage of candidacy. I do not think this should have happened, and I call on Parliament's House of Representatives to correct the error before the candidate's vote. Also, I have to say, I'm surprised with the idea of a secret vote. The secret vote is indeed once in a democratic position, but the secret vote today would not be quite safe in the function of democracy, it would be in the function of hiding the right person of all of us sitting here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House, so each of us individually, and especially of those who make decisions with a majority, usually by revote. After all, this commission was elected so that no locals could assign anyone from the opposition. So we're really against any secret vote. There's no reason why we shouldn't show our views on this matter publicly and transparently, anyway, how we're doing it at the previous points of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19635	Dear Representative Zorić, pa Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19636	I must correct my colleague Bećirović, who here initially said that the Ad hoc commission consisted of representatives of the four political parties and he then listed it, SDA, SNSD, Party for BiH and HDZ said. That's not true. So, I'm a HDZ member in 1990 and he wasn't a single representative, and the party he mentioned here -- the party doesn't exist in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19637	Dear Representative Bahtić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19638	...here, so many colleagues, Bećirović, attack on the work of the Ad hoc commission, he wants to say their hypocrisy from the SDP. He says political views have been approved by the ad hoc commission. Believe me, there are no political views, especially when it comes to... order. Well, I say first that I'm not happy with the score; if there were any political ones, my neighbor, my colleague, my student-day roommate; he was there – he gave up. So it has nothing to do with politics. A colleague from the SDP when so do you, how could you not when elected here by the Electoral Commission? Lidija Korač was the first, most points, same as some ad hoc commission and we all kept quiet here, and you didn't say. Now he's the same person, the person carrying the list for the Center Municipality in front of the SDP. And why didn't you say that there was a political background? That's when you kept your mouth shut. Now you see... a political background. How can you be so hypocritical, so ambiguous? Always be consistent. That's it, thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19639	Representative Ajanović: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19640	Well, I'd like to replicate, because it's often Mr. Bećirović, whom I appreciate as an MP with my prepared discussions and everything, but I'd like to tell him once and for all to forget that in some parties there's no first reading of what's to be said, and then the party comes to a conclusion – you can say that. You mentioned the Party for BiH, SDA, SNSD, etc. Except for the president of the SDA Club, none of the debaters spoke on behalf of their parties, but on their own behalf, and in fact every MP has the right to speak his own opinion, and his own opinion. And if you think I'd be the one in the replica to give the party's opinion, then you're wrong. Then I'd ask for a word to discuss, not replicate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19641	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19642	Well, this part of the replica relating to Mr Zorić's comment. He probably wanted to be precise so to say, whether, that the fourth party is not HDZ but HDZ BiH and let's figure it out. So this part that applies to the replica of counterpart Ajanović, let's try to accept him in some way, so that people have been working on their own conscience, they haven't consulted parties, but they've been chosen by parties, etc. Whoever wants to believe it, who doesn't and doesn't have to. And that's his right. But what do I mean? I'm surprised Mr. Bahtić answered the line. So the only two public abusers in this country, Vitomir verbally, and this one went one step further and after verbally going on and on practical violence, and I at least expected to really refrain at this point in the agenda, that he would not be solidarity with his brother by his behavior, Vitomir Popović, however, could not endure and here he had to answer. And now he's going to pick up again, etc. But he doesn't need to be replicated in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19643	Honorable representative Jovičić's first replica, then. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19644	Dear Chairman, indeed if anyone wants to open up in this House, which would say, a map game, I told you—people, we will not stop. And you today, Mr. Bećirović, mention that story, force us to spite. Inat is not a good ally. You're pushing us to spite that we're really behind Mr. Popović, because of you. I want to tell you, tell you once what you want from SNSD MPs and our club. I repeat for the hundredth time, at every point in the agenda, we're not a remethyl factor, we don't want complications in BiH, we want to be a constructive part, but we can't achieve at any point what we want to be in the interest, and that suits you. Mr Popović, if you want to talk about him, is a legitimate current Ombudsman. Well, this Ad-hoc commission can't be both a prosecutor and a judge and judge whether he's guilty of this or that. So he participated as all other candidates equally. And today you have reached out to Mr Popović whom, by the way, I am not defending, but with what arguments do you prove that he is undesirable for this function? I want to tell you once again, I always play open cards and say it in a transparent manner, and I repeat for the thousandth time, don't force us into this House to spite that isn't a good ally to anyone. Don't, for certain animosities towards the political party we come from, for these and those reasons, and put everything in that context by our leader who is a thorn in your eye. Well, today, Vitomir Popović is not at all interesting. Today is interesting how SNSD MPs will perform. And I told you once and instead of stopping at what doesn't matter, you now want to complicate the situation and then, I repeat it for the third time and I won't do it again, make sure that we stand behind Mr Popović and challenge the choice of Ombudsman. It's not people of interest to us. Leave us alone, when we don't touch you, which my grandmother would say: "We don't touch you, let us go." We have our human rights, but you're jeopardizing both MPs and human and civil, and I don't know what rights you're running for all those things that don't matter at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19645	Thank you. Dear Representative Bahtić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19646	A colleague Bećirović also mentioned this and to see their way of action: classical installation, people were paid there for two days, just paid by the SDP and if anyone has no right to talk in this Parliament about morality and human rights – you do not have SDP. Kidnap, robbery of state property, you're never the owners, you use those assets. Why have these likes of yours never revealed that you are taking on a means of rent that you do not have the right to do. Pack up, gentlemen, already the suitcases, you must leave all the buildings, all the property! While the poor girl has no place to live, you're taking the money to rent. It's state property. And I will never fear your conjugal and racquetical media, and the property of the Communist Union will be returned with interest. It's government property, not citizens' association. There is, of course, no right to talk about morale here until you give the people back what you robbed. Return to the people first, and then discuss morale and human pavilions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19647	Dear Representative Bećirović: Replica. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19648	I first have to tell this story: with which arguments we claim that Mr. Vitomir Popović is an unsuitable candidate, that there can be no better evidence than directly published, is the video that clearly indicates what one, here, you say Ombudsman for human rights, telling the media in this country or any other man. I quote him, he told a Bosnian-Herzegovic TV journalist that he deserved a "shot in the forehead". If that's something this country needs, then obviously we're in two different sexes. And when it comes to this classic installation, this story about Bahtić and his violence has just been quieted down, people think he's justified himself, he's been excluded from the BiH Party, I guess they haven't turned him off for nothing, and again, here he is today repeating that it was a classic installation. I don't even believe that Mr. Vitomir Popović would have said that what he had was a classic installation, but Bahtić went one step ahead of him in everything and that. It is best in this country that we believe such as Vitomir Popović, Sadik Sado Bahtić, without believing in our own eyes anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19649	Dear Representative Belkić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19650	Here, Mr. Bećirović, you have, from the very beginning, directed this whole debate towards Vitomir Popović, claiming that the Ad hoc commission should have eliminated him at the beginning. I fully agree with you, and I find him unsuitable for the Ombudsman. However, you are a man who sits in Parliament, you know that there must be certain procedures, that there must be a call for something, so in the procedure they had to rely on some document, or some verdict, not our experience. So I fully agree with you, the man is unsuitable, we have seen with our own eyes, but the man is still an Ombudsman today. So, we had the opportunity for all of us sitting here to submit an initiative to get rid of him here, to get rid of him here after all these situations. And finally, when it comes to the stranka for BiH and the Ombudsmans, today's composition of the Ombudsman has been chosen by some other people. The BiH Party MPs were against it. And these are publicly expressed views, that they are recognizable politically and that we will not support any: Popović, Ljubić, or Pašić. Check in the stenogram who chose these three ombudsmen. Well, check it out, you're in the investigation business.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19651	No more reports for replicas. The hearing, have you been reported for debate? Is it for discussion? We're registering. I'm saying, these are all replicas, I mean, so... So the replicas are no longer registered at this time. The next is for the debate, distinguished representative Branko Dokić. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19652	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I personally think that today we need to finish this job, form this institution, that it is better to have this institution formed and elected people than to have none of it. That's one of my messages. On the other hand, I can say that there are really candidates here on these lists on all three of these lists, candidates who can do the job they're looking for with their experience and profession. Well, here, I'll start with this Serbian list. We have two university professors here, we have ladies – and it doesn't matter – who did this job and proved they know how to do the job, Branka Mijatović, Biljana Simeunović. We have a prominent lawyer, Ljubomir Sandić. So we have one broader list of people who can really choose one. The situation is similar with this list of Bosniak candidates. I wouldn't call anyone out here individually, but, of these nine proposed ones, it's perfectly safe to find the candidate who can satisfy everyone's interests. On the Croatian list, I would like to remind you that we have already had a vote once that one of the candidates has been elected by a good, good majority. I personally don't think it's working here again in Parliament on other people who are going to vote, and here I am pre-determining that I will vote as I have voted for the first time, supporting that candidate who has received the majority. But I want to look back on some of these criticisms, first and foremost, to this Ad hoc commission. Be careful, note that this commission has been working under the laws and regulations that apply to the selection of members of this institution, which is here. We can talk about their unprofessional approach if they violated some of these members and did not act accordingly. I, as far as I could see, have not broken a single member. Therefore, from that point of view, they have professionally done their job. If they had managed these discussions that we heard – people have the right to discuss – then it would have been an assessment of the artistic impression, how well he formulated it; however, he resented that there was an artistic impression here. There is no artistic impression here, nor should they have an artistic impression, and each of us is now given the right to present some of his criteria, expressing his relationship to the individual and to the institution and trying to act on others, too, to accept his relationship. So that's right, that's understood. So let me conclude one more time. The commission, in my opinion, did professionally its job. Well, the other thing, dear friends, is that when we make laws, when we make regulations, we often don't wonder what we do. I..., to be very explicit, if I were to ask myself, I would not allow any future Ombudsman who is a member of an organ of a political party to be elected to the Ombudsman Institution. But that's my relationship. I didn't have a chance when it was the law to express myself to that. We had in this House for one position that still, how can I say, how can I find a word, even more critical of this issue of party approach,.... The Constitutional Court; we had a situation that we chose someone who sat in that parliament. But the law is like that, and we could. I'm not criticizing what was done. I'm just calling if we're going to sit down once, so let's see how to rule out such possibilities by law, regulations and so forth, so we don't get into such positions. 29 And I would look back once again, I think it is not good that we have overlabelled some people here, calling for inhumane times, if I were not to mention anyone here individually; if we were now to call on the inhumane times that were, we could find from all three of these lists candidates who were mentally supportive of the policies that led us to the inhuman times and policies that participated in it. I'm not calling anyone. So it's not good that here's the good part of the time that's been spent on this part. So, let me get this straight. The commission did professionally its job. It's up to us now to define ourselves. We have a wide list of proposed candidates and it would really be an ugly message if you hadn't finished this job today. Thank you. And I'd like to ask the chairman. It would be really convenient for you to announce one speaker to tell the next one in line to get ready so he doesn't get out of the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19653	Thank you. It's a good thing you're in here. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19654	Who's behind me? Well, I mean, I don't care who does.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19655	Hadji Jovan Mitrović is behind you, you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19656	No, it's not, I'm not asking for it for myself. Thank you very much. I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I won't be long, I just want to say a few things, respecting what has been said so far, especially what counterpart Denis Bećirović said outside our club, I won't repeat that. I'm sorry the president of this committee isn't here. I think it would be good, before we get to that someone there voting, if we choose to go to the vote today, that we do know the rules of the game ahead of us and we can figure it out in time. The first question is the issue of a secret vote and obviously we will be able to determine ourselves. One's for, one's against. And when the vote comes, we're going to have to vote in public whether we're for secret or public. And that's not controversial. But, Mr. Chairman, I think this commission was in debt, and I'm sorry she didn't do it, to explain two things to us, among other things. First, how they got to these points. It is clear in this Rules of Procedure that they adopted at the very beginning. And it's good enough that they adopted that Rules of Procedure because transparency was higher than it would have been without such rules of procedure and what we can see from additional materials. We in that Rules of Procedure were able to see what the criteria were, which were, how they were beating these people and we could see that everyone could: they got from 0 to 30 points given what experience of protecting human rights. We could also see that the reputation and moral character of the candidates could also have between 0 and 30 points. We could also see experience in the profession of 0 to 30 points. And we could see from the Rules of Procedure that they, I guess they did it... that the interview was from 0 to 30 points. Thus, each of the six members of the Commission could give people between 0 and 120 30 points. He probably couldn't do zero because at least he had some experience in the profession, otherwise he wouldn't have gone through the formal criteria. So the maximum candidate could have had 720 points. We see from these criteria how they are given to actually the only experience in the profession is more or less measurable. Some can be done, but these three other parameters: reputation and morality, experience in protecting human rights and interview, it seems, that they were still a matter of free judicial belief, as could be said because here we see from the candidate order that it is evident that some candidates who have received a large number of points, I do not want to talk about reputation and morality, I am talking about this experience of protecting human rights, it is evident that they have received so many points in protecting human rights, at least from what we have seen here, have no great experience. On the other hand, I think, Mr. Chairman, if we had a number of candidates here who, when you take general terms, general conditions, would satisfy almost every citizen; special conditions were met by anyone who is a citizen of this country, who is currently not driven by the court and who has, who is a graduate lawyer, who has over 10 years of experience as a lawyer. So, conditionally speaking, these general and special conditions are such conditions that objectively there are several tens of thousands of people who satisfy this, and here... the most responsible functions to protect human rights in the country. So these additional criteria that this commission adopted were actually meant to classify just those people who have experience in protecting human rights, because we choose them for something other than the very institution that was created to protect human rights. I allow myself not to know enough, and so I'm sorry that this commission didn't give us any more detailed insight into this way of points, not just the number of points in the woods, but the points in people, so let's see how it might have happened, I also don't get it at all, here I can take any three candidates, read it, so let me ask you a few questions. I, unlike some colleagues who tend to say, because you, you, are against a man, then we will be for him. Right now, we won't be... for anyone, or against anyone, because someone is for him or against him. We'll be for some people or against some people and we have... I'm sorry that we don't have any more elements to make quality decisions, because I'm convinced that there are very high-quality people here and we don't need to roll in all these people's mud because we're looking for the flaws of some of them because we're not informed enough. So, I hope I don't make a propaganda or eliminate someone if I say something commendable or something bad for some of these people. But you can see here that you have people who apparently don't have and I mean, to be clear, apparently SNSD gentlemen are no longer for Vitomir Popović. They have their second candidate who wrote here that he's a member of the SNSD Municipal Committee. That one seems to be, as they say, ready here to run for the Ombudsman. But that's what my colleague was talking about. So, the law does not prevent anyone, because he is a member of the party's leadership, from being an Ombudsman, but it is up to us as Parliament that if we see that there are equally high-quality candidates who do not have political... then we should define ourselves for them. I wish that before I end the debate that the President of the Commission or someone in front of the Commission will give us an answer to a few questions. Which is, what is expected, why have we been sent this letter to Rafi Gregorijan and Ambassador Dejvison, why has it been sent to us? Did the Commission have that in mind? Did the College have that in mind? In fact, here Mr. Gregorijan and Mr. Dejvison clearly say that they support this work and that they think it would be good for Parliament to choose the ones who got the most points. If that's the case, we have a little problem here, and that's why I'd like it to be clear to me, whether 31 is a secret or a public vote. How was it supposed to vote here, either secretly, or publicly, does that mean that all of us are going to get a chance to round up three people individually on this list of 24 people? Are we just going to round up three people? That would be natural. The more you know very well that here, this is about choosing the Ombudsman to protect human rights, the more I will not talk about the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedom, the more we all know what it is. Here we have objectively four groups of candidates. The candidate, or candidate from the fourth group, belongs to persons who are among the first three by the number of points. My question: Can the candidate from the others be chosen only if the previous 22 candidates...? You see what people here say: it's attitude, political attitude. He can't possibly be one of the others. Eh, then no, not the law, the law, please, is very clear. I would ask you to read the Law on Ombudsmans, the provision of Article 8(7). The Law on Ombudsmans for Human Rights of BiH says the Ombudsman is appointed from three constituent nations, Bosniak, Croatian and sprawl, which does not exclude the possibility of appointing from the order of others. (Dot, end quote) So, please, we now, if this parliament in the beginning says that Vera Jovanović cannot be elected, I am talking about Vera Jovanović as a candidate who has declared himself as the others, who is among the first three points per number of points, if Vera Jovanović cannot be elected in this House, then it is not the destruction of the Constitution of this country, it is even the collapse of the principles on which the Ombudsman's institution rests, because the Ombudsman should just defend against such violent behaviour that someone is discriminated against because of the order of others. So let me get this straight. At the beginning, I think we need to clarify how these three people will be elected, these three people. I'll keep going. I would therefore ask, Mr. Chairman, for reasons that some candidates have already given up and because I am afraid that we are entering a single plane from which we can only discredit ourselves and the Ombudsman institution and open up a new unnecessary controversy in public and between us, I would pray therefore... before we move to the vote, that someone, whether this commission, whether the College, should present to us different voting modes so that we can discuss it, and then this Parliament should declare what voting mode. My personal opinion: the only thing that comes out of this so far is that each of us, which in secret, is defined for three people and those three people who have the most votes, and in which case......... there cannot be two people from one nation. So that's one modeality. The second mode is to count all persons from the first to the last by the number of points, and then we all plead, first by the number of points for – versus. Which the first three people get most for, and they belong to different nations, then that's the modeality. But to go in a third way, every third way I fear is unconstitutional and contrary to the Convention on Human Rights and opens up the possibility of further manipulation leading to greater discrimination in this country than it is necessary to be in the selection of people who need to protect an ordinary man from discrimination. I don't want to knowingly enter into the analysis of individual candidates. I must admit that there are very eclectic examples here in which it is evident that, here, in order for someone not to be here, in order not to be misunderstood, it is evident that four, only four parties and all four from the coalition were somehow involved in this. And, once again, I want to say that it's just for the sake of a stenogram for nothing else. I know you won't change it, that it's against the very principle of what we're talking about, but it's a special story. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19657	Thank you. The following has been reported to the esteemed representative Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19658	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about the Ombudsman Institution, I hope we are aware of the importance of the institution at this time and future and the importance of the institutions that are related to the Ombudsman Institution. We carefully passed the Law on the Ombudsman of BiH and carefully built an institution of competition and the appointment of this commission, and I think that the Commission has done the job well. All of what we've done on this issue, a very significant question, I think that to a good extent, at least, my opinion, can be discredited by a secret vote. Why? Legally, it is the right of the parliamentary majority or the majority within that parliamentary majority to create a majority that will be elected at the House of Representatives of those candidates, because that is how the law stipulates: that the House of Representatives chooses the majority. However, I think that this should be done publicly and that all that has been done and what is done with regard to the Ombudsman Institution should be done publicly, transparently for the reason that the Ombudsman institution itself, the Ombudsman institution, should save itself for the future. By a secret vote, we can be in a position to promote the reputation and the moral character and the public reputation of candidates to actually promote something else and to promote in the future other opportunities for the institution of the Ombudsman competition. In fact, it's possible that some candidates like one party, another party, third party, and then parties vote each other for the candidate on principle: I'll vote for you, you'll vote for mine, not because that's the best one, but because you'll vote for my candidate. It will not be prevented by a public vote either, but if it is done, I think it should be done publicly, openly, not hiding behind the institution of a secret vote, behind some mystification, so that we, for example, would have an opportunity in the future, as the BiH Party just said, we voted against these Ombudsmans at the moment. What will candidates who, or MPs who have this act of responsibility in some future say about some candidates if they prove not to be good? They won't even be able to prove they voted against them. Therefore, by public vote we will not prevent all evil but by public vote we will promote the fact and approach that each MP individually and each party individually faces the principle of responsibility for work and responsibility for the work of those elected. I think we must afford it to the MPs and parties, above all, to the MPs as responsible actors in this Parliamentary Assembly. I don't think every other principle and every other approach has any explanation. In addition, a secret vote in the Parliamentary Assembly is intended only when a decision is made. I absolutely don't see any reason why in the Ombudsman Institution made up of the most prominent people in BiH, which should make the most prominent people in the Bosnian Herzegovina public, who should be chosen here, to choose MPs -- to do it in secret. For that reason, I say, if there's a secret vote I'll exclude myself from voting because it's the only way I'm not taking on someone else's responsibility. Thank you. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19659	Thank you. The following has been reported by a respected representative, Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19660	Mr. Chairman, I will try to be brief and two questions are very important to me. So, one question, who will be the Ombudsman of the Serbian people and whose trust I have received and as an MP represent the interests of that people and I think it's realistic to be public. When we voted last time as an auditor, we change the Rules of Procedure in the way that suits us or in order to avoid liability. So there's no need not to be transparent and clear. That's one question. And secondly, I think that, especially when the biographies are from another people, so we should say what we're handling both our opinions and our facts and I would disagree now that we're going to say the ugly words and the debauchery and, in particular, the carrying out of the truths that have not been proven. It is an ugly message and an ugly way of working this Parliament and running away from the reality for which we must surely bear ourselves and the public. As far as that goes, I'm gonna vote on the Rules of Procedure as it is, no secret vote. Let everyone plead right. When it comes to candidates from the order of the Serbian people who have given their candidacys, biographys, I have defined myself according to biography and experience, and here I will publicly say that, meaning SDS, our club will vote for Vitomir Popović, meaning on the basis of his experience, work, biography and especially because he is already a current Ombudsman and I hope that he will also represent interests in the next period of the Serbian people from which he was proposed. So he was also proposed from the order of the Serbian people. And that they will have a lot of impact on the human rights that we are talking about and we all know here that it won't affect much, because they haven't affected much yet, and it certainly won't affect much for this term of office either. We know the spheres of government in this country. That's why I suggest that we plead and whoever gets the most votes, the fact that we have to deal with it, and I know that each of us has some of the candidates that he's imagined or who he's lobbying for, and who he's in charge of, comes up with a positive result, he has to make peace with the fact that it's so factual that it's going to be based on the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19661	Thank you. Here, since there have been a lot of questions about the work of this commission, I have taken the responsibility... instead of my colleague Hadžiahmetović to make some comments, so here I will announce myself. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I must say, it was very interesting to monitor today's debate for several reasons. First, which I have the impression that whether we consciously or not, depends on what it's like when we need it, we replace thesis, and when it doesn't have any need. So much has been said here today at the expense of this Ad hoc commission as if it were elected by the parliamentary parties represented in this House. I don't know why, for what reasons you ignore the fact that you 34 have elected three members to this commission and that the House of Peoples, not political parties, has chosen three more envoys in that commission. So I must say that as one of the members of this committee and as one of the vice-presidents of that committee. It's clear that we're used to making remarks when we're expecting, I don't know what again, that maybe it won't be exactly the way I projected it, so let's go ahead and look at everything, if that's who it is, I don't know, what he might be doing here today. Transparency! You have therefore given the commission a commission, you and the second home of the Parliamentary Assembly. This commission is, on the basis of your assignment and the basis of the law which is as it is, with all our shortcomings, we discussed the law last time, when we failed to get to the election of the Ombudsman, so I don't want to bother it now, so this commission has secured, I'm now talking about my subjective impression that you may not agree with, the greatest possible transparency in your work. So what it didn't provide was just because there was no other idea of how to ensure additional transparency. And I will tell you that except for six members of the Committee, each meeting of the Committee, means every session of the Committee, from the call for tenders to the establishment of the list of candidates, was followed by OHR, OSCE, representative of the European Commission, the Hessin Committee for the Protection of Human Rights, "Your Rights", an NGO dealing with the protection of citizens' rights, provides legal assistance, etc. and be open to all and one institution and individual who, in any way, thinks he's engaged or has some reference to human rights dealing with it, by having to follow, at least, respect some order, this and home and business, so to speak, have been open since the time of making this Rules of Procedure that you've got to see. Here's what we've been doing. We could only deliver a list of candidates. We didn't have to submit this report to six pages because here I as one of you could assume that the debate would be the same. These here are résumés, mostly, are they. The report could've been like this, so it's this wide. Again, you would argue as you argue, so because you came with a pre-prepared assessment that this is all non-transparent. I don't know what you've been able to determine, though. Here, I'm talking about transparency and I'm talking about the fact, so if we made it possible on the Parliamentary Assembly website, we advertised every session of this committee, so we made it possible for the NGO sector, each of you could follow that, I don't know why none of you ever came to see what your colleagues are doing and how they are doing it transparently and intransparently in the choice of ombudsman. However, unlike us, whom you chose, you would not be paid for this work. We've collected the work properly, and I think we've charged it right away, and let me tell you that too. What you have in front of you today is the art of being able at this point, in accordance with the law that defines this area. And I don't know what made you think that this score that doesn't bind you, the law says it's not transparent. You have a rule and you have, you see interesting ranges, let's say, 200-300 points. So, as it happens, I have to say, for many of these, for some I know what their political engagement is, but for one great majority I don't know. And I am convinced that a large number of the Commission members were not burdened by it. And I'll tell you, here's an example. You can, if you know, those who know, who are currently three ombudsmen in the Federation and you will see all three of them very highly evaluated, but not only from one member of the Commission but from all the members of the Commission. Very interesting. I have to say, I don't know which one of them is possibly close to which political party, at least what I know. Maybe one of them is, and I don't know. But it's interesting that everyone is highly rated. We had one evaluation of both this part of the NGO and the international organisation that did not bind us. So we asked, after people followed it, to help us and to hear what they thought about every candidate. And in most cases, those grades coincided with the grades, otherwise they evaluated, the ones given by the Commission. Now public or secret? We've been evaluating in secret. So if you have to accept today that you're doing the same 35 as we are, that you're not being accused by the public again that you're doing as untransparently as you say we've been doing: so you can be more publically transparent than we are! I'll tell you the very clear reasons why we worked undercover. I'm not going to mention any candidate names, because I don't want to absolutely influence you to commit to one or the other, but we, during our work, were exposed to the pressure of candidates who for some reason estimated that they might not pass. We assured ourselves that this Ad hoc commission does not choose, we have only prepared for you what we have prepared. You have a view and you can choose from these 24 candidates! Whoever you choose today, he is the elected Ombudsman, one of the three Ombudsmans. But people thought, if we were to choose, they were doing different kinds of pressures. It was, I don't know, not to say, at the border of any threats, etc. In order to rule out the possibility that tomorrow this elected Ombudsman, and unfortunately such candidates, have, is being remanded, that, in principle, some rematch is being consecrated to one of the members of the Commission, we have voted in secret. And we have reactions from some of them who are here on the rank list a little bit worse points, who think they're less rated than some member, so they react like that, and they're not right at all, because they don't know. And that's good, that's the advantage of a secret vote. I, as a member of the Committee, but believing that only in such a way can we ensure full transparency, full independence of every MP, also means enabling even if there are MPs to freely identify who they will round. And that we don't paint a lot here with different paints. I know lobbying's been done, so who's gonna vote for who? That's what I know, so it's not a secret. You've all been talking to someone, haven't you? So someone talked to you, too. But if you really want to say without that pressure right now - well, I want to choose or I don't want to - then it's best to do it secretly. There's another problem, I agree, how are we gonna see who didn't honor the deal? Only in public. And from that point of view, I would support the principle of public voting if we knew who cheated on the deal to be voted on. So, but that I, by agreeing with each other, I mean there are hundreds of deals here, hundreds of means, how many advocates there are, so you know that, I think, that doesn't mean that you didn't know, but regardless, it does. So, you have what, I just wanted to say when it comes to this commission, I think it's incorrect of you fellow MPs, especially some who, I must say, unargumentedly gave a flat-rate assessment to the commission. I responsibly claim that the Committee was drawn up as it was drawn up to work very correctly. Here, when luck comes, we have living witnesses, and we wish you were witnesses when we were working, it wouldn't bother us even to do it better. There were questions: how do we proceed? The way the House votes will be declared at the time of the vote. So, the proposal is for the commission to be secret, you can accept it, you can't accept it. If you don't accept, we'll go public, yes. A system that monitors a secret vote exists, means it enables a secret vote and electronically. So these are the conditions we have and you will decide; if you choose, we will do so. The second question, I think Mr. Lagumdžija asked, "What will be the voting order?" I personally don't think the voting order is crucial. So, 90% of you, at least that's what I think, maybe, now like you, I guess, maybe I'm wrong... that you already know who you're voting for. But let's just say you don't know, so I don't think it's crucial, it could be this order as it is in the Committee's report. So we have, I don't know, I don't know, it seems to me that the first candidates in the order of the Serbian people, so we choose, they are sorted by the number of points of that commission or, as you said, by the artistic impression of the members of the Committee. But after some points, they're sorted. So we can take that principle and say -- the first candidate in the Serbian people's order to get the required 36 votes no longer casts a vote on candidates from the Serb people because he is a selected candidate. Then we cross over, here are the next candidates from the order of the Croatian people, we can do this, then the next candidates from the Bosniak people, and the next candidate who has not declared himself either as a Srbin, nor as a Hrvat, nor as a Bošnjak. So, we can do this principle, which is, here, maybe one of the proposals possible, and we can make, even though I don't think, here, that something special will help, make a special list now, common to all candidates by the number of points in this report, and then in order to make that statement. Absolutely business correct, in my opinion, here, but we'll put it to the vote, too. So, we're going to prepare these variations and then we're going to get you to say what principle you're going to be. As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't matter anyway, because I don't think that's going to have a crucial impact on the results of the vote. Why did we send letters to this High Representative, the OSCE, etc.? We sent you because we don't want to hide anything from you. So, everything that comes to the College, and this came to the College, so the College delivers to the MPs, because you have the right to know what we know, no matter how much it binds you. For me personally, here, it's good to hear sometimes that international organizations think we did something right, even the five, six of us that we did. But never to please them and you. So they think we did well, we did transparently, here's a number of you think we're not, let's know what they think. It doesn't oblige you, you have the opportunity to choose these candidates who are here. Why aren't some people disqualified and meet the formal requirements? Because the commission doesn't have that mandate. So, no, you didn't give the commission a mandate to, again, build some impression, says - well, this candidate can't. So whoever meets the formal conditions according to the results of the contest, by law, he's here; as anyone ranked, you see for yourself so that, in the end, it won't matter to you much. And here, I think I've answered the questions you asked and I'm just going to say in the end (here's an esteemed colleague who's arrived, so if she thinks it's necessary to address as President of the Committee) - this commission has made a great effort to have you on the table today. I would like to thank all the colleagues of the Committee for one very correct work, a correct approach, and I would like to thank all those who have followed our work, also in the name of the Committee, and I think they have helped us with their work, and I would like to invite you in the end to try to make an effort to have a bar chosen here today in the House of Representatives of the BiH Ombudsman. Thank you very much. No more reports. He has a respected representative, Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19662	Since I had no more right to replicas in adaptation and no, I think everything's said more or less than... here's the chairman giving answers to all these questions. But since we stayed in that area over a public and secret vote, and right now the chairman has encouraged that discussion, it should be said that right in a public, public vote, those who want to honor the secret agreement insist. That's what they should say, I think, and that... which you and the secret deals aren't public. And if it's all public to go and that, I mean if we want to, it's a discussion, a discussion. So if we want to be correct, that's it, that's the kind of pressure on the ones he's secretly agreeing with, to publicly show that that's how it is. And I think it's kind of an inaccuracy, and then you're all still trying to get a theory. Oh, don't get me wrong, there's every grandmother in this country who knows how it works and what it looks like, and no legal theory can back it up and wash it, if that's the kind of deal. And as far as we're concerned, let's get this straight, SNSD doesn't matter to us. Publicly, 37 secretly, however it is, but we respect the will of every MP as they are determined, because both of them are democratic and however they choose, they have no right to disqualify the other. But the anthema is a secret vote based on which we've all been elected here, I think it's incorrect, I don't think it's necessary, I haven't spoken in replicas of these pressures that the chairman spoke of, and no one has said how to protect the members of Parliament, but we're probably obliged to put up with these pressures, and that's the only part, if it could be allowed in that secret vote that people commit themselves without being jumped tomorrow, I don't know, but here, if it's the price, as far as we're concerned by SNSD, we don't have any problem. But I don't think it's right not to tell that whole truth to the end. This mole that Lagumdžija sent to his member of the club, Mr Bećirović, did not have to go to Parliament, could be criticised at the club, and that, in this way, this criticism does not send the rolling of this whole process in the mud, and I think it was completely unnecessary to call for disqualification and invitation to the species and media and every other link of certain people. I think it is unnecessary because I would remind myself that the representatives of the international community, the NGO sector, the media representatives participated very politely in this process and very politely questioned Mr. Vitomir Popović and we have listened, unfortunately some, or, however you will, fortunately, or whatever, his very convincing answers, because man has been given the opportunity to answer these questions, obviously he knows it, obviously has experience and is obviously now, because he is now in that position and has seen, in those answers, the superiority of other candidates. But everyone participated in these studies and in this process, and it is not correct that we are introducing this kind of lynch to people who have legal right, who have passed the procedure and who, ultimately, we should have the right to give and we will give our assessment by voting, not to disqualify them as we try. Although I said that in the discussion -- this man was elected here in this House, that man is an Ombudsman of BiH. And then suddenly such a drastic change to that, I don't think it's correct for all those who have to participate in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19663	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We move to the 16th point of the established agenda: Ad. 16. Proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Transport and Communications of the House of Representatives in the context of the debate on the point: Business of the Public TV Service of BiH and measures to overcome the situation of established audit reports on the financial operation of the BiH Public TV Service for 2005 and 2006 On 4 July, the Transport and Communications Committee submitted a proposal for a conclusion on the operations of the Public TV Service of BiH and measures to overcome the situation of established audit reports on the financial operations of the BiH Public TV Service for 2005 and 2006. So, the Commission acted upon the conclusion of this home from last session, i.e. It considered the amendments to the proposal for conclusions that we had at the 31st session and submitted a final 38 proposals for conclusions at eight points plus two points of conclusions arising from the debate at the joint session of both homes. You've reached these conclusions that our commission suggests. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19665	Mr. Chairman, I will speak for the chairman of this committee. On behalf of the Commission, I can thank you very much for the great trust of Parliament which has brought this issue back to us several times and with this gratitude follows our request. Indeed, this time to do it right, to end this another way. So he's not going back to the Commission. As far as the Commission is concerned, consider this by that principle to be taken or left. I can only say that now that we've had these last interventions, we've tried to respect all the suggestions of the MPs that were in the debate on the agenda, that I'm not repeating it now. So what was beyond that and those suggestions that they had for ambition to respect some new moments, which occurred after our debate, we simply didn't treat them on the Commission, we didn't even consider them, I don't think it was possible. I don't want to take any more of your attention. We've talked a lot about this. So it is up to Parliament today to define these conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19666	Thank you. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19667	Dear President, colleagues, fellow representatives, distinguished guests, these Commission conclusions are good and this would be good for all to be carried out, but based on the report we received from the Management Board, this will not be close enough to what the Public Service expects from its founder. I would like to remind once again that the Parliamentary Assembly is the founder of the Public Service and as the founder has three key obligations: to bring in the instruments of establishment, it is the law and it is passed, we have a lot of remarks on it, but until it is changed, we need to respect it; to appoint the authorities – the authorities are appointed, the Management Board has appointed this home; and to provide resources to manage this house on the basis of the instrument of establishment of the appointed authorities. But this home does not meet this third obligation, which is – providing resources for the public service to work. So it is unacceptable to leave in this way the company established by the Act of this House, to leave the company whose bodies are appointed in this House, which must operate with unpaid taxes and contributions to the salaries of its employees, and hence, our institution directly violates the law, although this home and the institutions it has appointed should be an example of respect for the law. It pays employees very low wages, which is not realistically expected to have some high effects or standards in its work, does not meet its obligations to its suppliers and thus makes indifference on the market and again sends a very, very ugly message. I think we need to take care of the integrity of this home and the institutions it appoints and that we need to carry out our third basic obligation, which is – to secure resources. We have such examples in many countries where 39 budgets provide grants for public services, because these public services should participate in the creation of our society, educate all of us, transfer information to us. We have signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement where we want to go to EU society and the EU wants to create a knowledge society. We need all this information from the EU and we need to get it to our citizens so they know what's waiting for them on the road that we've already agreed on and which one we're going to. And for this reason, I ask that my conclusion be restored again, in fact, I propose that today we adopt another conclusion: - It is up to the Council of Ministers to rebalance the BiH institutions' budget within 90 days, which will provide for 10 million KM grants for the needs of the BiH Public TV Service. These are minimum funds to remove the key shortcomings they now have, which is to be able to meet obligations under the law, obligations towards employees, obligations to suppliers, so that they can normally start working and deal with the work for which they are established. And then after that, we need to see how to secure the financial resources further so that they can develop. If we're not going to do that, then we need to pass the law to shut it down, solve the organs so we don't make a fuss out of us and them. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19668	Mr Ivanković, just translate it into a written proposal for a conclusion. poslanik Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19669	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one question for the President of the Commission. Namely, the amendment and the words 'in languages of all three constituent nations' are replaced by 'in languages that are in official use'. So, this formulation of languages that are in official use, what does it mean for you, as president of the Commission? So, are these, uh, constituent nations, languages of national minorities, if we all have for national minorities? So, I'd like this formulation to be clearer to me before I plead. So, and I propose that we declare our conclusions individually, means not all of the Commission's conclusions at once, but individually on the conclusions. Since there are, for me or for me, a number of acceptable conclusions, but also some that I'm not sure I can solve, that they can solve the problems that were here in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19670	Mr. Dokić, do you need to explain the official, constitutional peoples, etc.? I believe Mr. Novaković knows that, but here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19671	I think he knows, too, I don't know. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19672	But tell him if he doesn't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19673	Does he just want to hear it from my mouth? The constitution says what official languages are in BiH, and I don't think I need to repeat that now, Mr. Novaković knows that well. I think that formulation is quite clear, it could have been and as we stated for the first time, but since nothing is fundamentally changing and even formally, we accepted the proposed amendment to get as many of those who would be in a position to support the conclusions. That's it, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19674	Have vi joined Jukić? Mr. Jukić. Are there any more reported? Jovičić? Jukić, get Jovičić ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19675	Here, I'm going to do it very briefly and I'm not going to renew my conclusions, although I think they were correct and that the only conclusions offer a solution to getting out of this current situation where the Public TV service was found and I'm going to say not only with my own guilt, to a greater extent, perhaps because of some other circumstances, etc. But we insist, and through these conclusions, we want to show one picture of a state better than the one that is real. And the public service people also, as you know when someone has some problems, so he's ashamed to admit that they have these problems, and then a little bit is beautiful, etc., and in fact, by having such a relationship with their problems and their obligations, which arise from such a situation, does not actually contribute to the solution of that situation, but continues, in a way, to contribute to the rest of such a bad condition. So my assessment and my view is that our TV system, specifically RTTVBH1, was in such a situation that more radical measures needed to be taken to resolve this situation. Mr Ivanković, who I agree with in one part, spoke about what our obligations are and what our responsibilities are. We have fulfilled part of our obligations, but... we have not taken responsibility to repair and resolve the overall situation and I think we missed the opportunity, first of all in the debate, or the assessment of the situation that is written in the report as it is. We've made it a little more beautiful again, so, I don't know, I don't know, we've qualified the losses on a nicer, nicer expression, so we've seen that that's the difference, I don't know,...the obligations to, I don't know, suppliers, etc. – the difference in income and expenditure, etc. And you know what it is, what it's called, what it is. But here I am, really to shorten my debate, I think that we have missed the opportunity to make better and better conclusions that we should then, of course, implement in this way and help our BHRT and that... really what we want everyone and what it should be, which is a quality public service that will be in the service of the citizens of this country, and not that we sometimes refer to, in a way, according to our obligations like, the other day I commented on, the answer to my representative question, where approximately from that question to conclude, a ton of answers, yes, and even not to seriously address some issues, such as coverage, quality coverage by TV, etc. 41 So we can’t run away from it, and we can’t say that the situation is good. It's not good, it's better than it is, but we need to look at the real situation and really propose conclusions that will allow this to be solved. This way, I'm afraid, we're going to get into even bigger problems, that the tv service will be even less capable. It's already questionable how it works at all, its liquidity, its insolvency, etc., so these are all elements that these people know best. And to me the most surprising thing is the relationship between these people in the management and management of that house which doesn't speak more openly and more clearly about their difficult position and condition and doesn't ask, together with us, the solution, but the criticism from here is viewed as kind of, I don't know,... etc. Oh, that's totally wrong. We want it to be, to be there well and we have a responsibility to fix it. And I think we missed the chance to do something at least in this part. What's going to be in the future, I'm not sure, but the sooner we get here and become aware of what the situation is and we suggest the right measures, the easier it's going to be to solve this situation, which, I repeat, is not good at all. The people from TV, from this house, they know best.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19676	Mr. Jovičić, before I give you my word, let me ask the services to call the MPs, we have a problem with the quorum. If you're tired, you're looking for a break. We'll take a break. Here you go, Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19677	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, so this topic about the Public TV System or the Service of BiH is focused only on BHT1 or possibly on Federal TV; of course, as there are indications or reasons, there should be no exception to TV RS either. It's been spinning for a long time in this House, so we've had a special session, so we've had conclusions and suggestions and all sorts of things. And these conclusions or suggestions of our commission's conclusions are a great thing if that's where the situation would be good. But in every proposal of these conclusions, which our commission requires, for a reason, it is evident that there is a problem in everything and everything. I will begin... from this proposal to conclude on the payment of the satellite program, so I will say that BHTV has never submitted a report to this parliament on the satellite programme, not even in her Annual Business Report. And in my opinion, such a single report should contain the following data and analysis. So, the annual expenditures of BHTV for the satellite program, then revenues from the satellite program, because it is known to be buying cards for the East River, etc., and then technical assumptions for the transmission of satellite programs, and then the rental of satellites, and then human assumptions, software concepts, ratings and acceptance of satellite programs in countries where the satellite programme can be viewed. Then, for the financing of the satellite programme, there are no funds planned in the Council of Ministers' budget and, I don't know, there's no minister here to ask him how he gets out in public and on which basis he said that 1,700,000 marks will be paid to rent a satellite through which BHTV is broadcast. Then, funds from the Regulatory Agency that have operated positively, over 6 million revenues, in my opinion, should not be used only to pay for the BHTV satellite programme because it is necessary to know and keep in mind that frequency and other fees, including penalties punishable by many electronic media, are collected from all broadcasters in BiH. I ask the question: Why, for example, wouldn't the Council of Ministers make a decision to pay for the satellite broadcasting program TV Hayat, which is ten times that of this television, TVBN, which is also 42 in the range of TV Hayat, so now I don't forget some other broadcasters that go on satellite, and alternative TV? And I don't know who's looking at it and who's buying it all. And it's about commercial televisions that can cover these costs and no one's helping them, so I ask them, "Where does someone get the right to favour this television only from the funds of Regulatory Agency, no matter what it carries the omen somewhere out there, and nowhere is it emphasized -- state television?" So it's an imposed project of the international community, and here's what I'm going to say, explicitly now, against which we're not, that there's a normal state. But every time this topic was, at least I took part in the debate, and I said put on my feet there who was responsible for riding, crime, disorder, it's really, I'm not gonna say funny, I'm not going to say even cynically, but I'm going to say sadly that we're discussing the reports in 2005, 2006, how he was doing that service in 2008, and there's no movement. So I asked for the balance of the national structure on the consistency of the people. I really don't want to put in the context of this whole story the journalists I support, technical staff, all the others who participate in the design of the program, but I wonder, when we've been asking the board of directors here, and then they've been asking the management question again, because they can't do it themselves, so we've been asking everyone and everyone, that there's still absolutely no movement besides asking the government to cover their dues, whether it was a satellite program, whether it was pay, whether it was a new show technique, whether it was digital, whether it was this, whether it was that. So the bottom line of the whole story is that this is a project that, now I'm saying what the people are telling me, but someone is going to tell me to put pressure on it, it's not true, they're independent, supposedly, television and they need to be of politics but they can't be of the citizens who pay for this. It is enough that this television is not being watched in the RS and none of them are seriously going to do the polls to see what kind of ratings it is. I'm not going to interfere with the programming scheme and the editorial policy, but I want to interfere with representing the interests of the voters who chose me, to ask a question, as we had a similar situation, just digressions for when it was police reform. None of the Srbin told me -- I don't have bread; everyone told me what would happen to the police. Also for this television show nobody tells me there's no baby bread for him today, but it says - that TV is anti-Serbian TV, look what it broadcasts! And I, as an MP today, as a politician, not to confirm it but to point out even more. A shameful report from a July 12th memorial from Bratunc, offensive to the Serbian people, humiliating, to broadcast such a contribution! Not because President Dodik said something or didn't, he shouldn't have been put in what he was saying, but they were supposed to have... according to over 3,000 civilians and soldiers killed. To tell you the truth, I support the entire BHTV broadcast of the Potocari memorial. The people need to see it and let it happen and let the service do it. But immediately the next day, to humiliate and insult us in such a way, they bring the entire BiH television system to ruin, because now Srbin will not pay even the TVRS subscription that did business positively for the first time last year. So, no commission's conclusions will be enforceable if there's still a board of directors that hasn't forced management to see who were the thieves who brought that TV into the dubiosis of 24 million and some marks, so the foll has some 18 million claims, which, of course, will never be charged, etc. etc. That we do not fool ourselves, that we do not convince each other here, that we make a cute picture and a nice picture for the public, I will repeat the point: the Serb people of the RS are bitter about this service, bitter. It's the easiest thing to say, because every conclusion doesn't drink water, which the people would say, if they humiliate us every time they have the chance. So I said, in all the previous sessions, when this matter was, what was done, that I should not repeat it today. Of course, about the potential for participation in some payment, again, this satellite programme, 43 e.g. it is now the latest, for 2009, this parliament can discuss and make any decisions; only on the basis of previous reports and expert opinions, can this be done, which would, of course, be given by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, from which funds, from which we, MPs from the RS, are from the SNSD Club, against it. We'll never give support. It doesn't mean that we don't support BHTV and journalists and those staff there who work honestly, but we don't give management and thieves who never go out here in public and say -- someone on this project took so much money, someone doing this. I don't want to be a prosecutor, I don't want to be a judge, but that's why, when it first came to this topic, I invited our institutions and the authorities who are authorized to do something about this. And what happened? Some again need a report that... by August, some by the end of July, some by the end of this. So for the first time, when there was a serious debate about this, I said this TV has to bring its financial balance to zero. If he can't, he'll go bankrupt. To pass a new law on public broadcasters. We won't take it anymore, people, to be humiliated. You can tell us both this and that, but that every time that television and that management and those editors that make a selective program, it's a disgrace to this country. Don't tell us about the constituent nations, don't tell us about trust. Last session I was saying, there's no reconciliation because it's an individual act. There's no trust if they work like this. That's why no rescue project, however anyone comes up with it -- the Council of Ministers, Ministry, Commission -- we will not support it. We don't have the nerve to face our people, because I don't account for someone in England, but I'm in the RS. But here I stand to be an MP and people from Bugojne, Travnik, the whole of BiH. Let's get her on her feet! When will she get on her feet? When will someone tell us why there are so many problems? So I was, I had an initiative to form the Committee of Auditors, but here, then they would say, here, politics interferes again, it's an independent medium. So everyone out there can get mixed up and make this kind of media image of us, it's the key to me, it's the humiliation, we just don't have the right to say anything about it. I'm asking the House of Representatives not to accept any conclusions, no matter what I give support to the Commission, until the situation is cleared up there and someone comes to us and says, "Someone's responsible for these malfeasances, thievings, wrong projects, I don't know what to do, and then we know what to do."
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19678	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19679	Here, I'm done, Mr. Chairman. I ask you, I greatly appreciate you, and I don't mention the people, the dark work, individuals especially, but we will never again let them humiliate us and insult us in every place, on every news show. And that's the point for us. For us, it is not the essence of a transmitter, for us it is not the essence of a satellite, which is sitting there, but when will one day realize that they cannot work against the Serb people and the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19680	Replica, the esteemed representative Novaković. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19681	Well, you see, today I think the second or third time Mr. Jovičić speaks for the RS. So, Mr. Jovičić speaks on behalf of the SNSD who, of course, has the largest voter support in the RS. I speak for the SDS, which means he has so much support. Of course, that doesn't mean that I don't support most of Mr. Jovičić's views when it comes to BHTV. I'm just talking about the relationship, so that means how here and I would pray really and in the future to discuss it that way. As for some payment, a call not to pay, etc., I must say that I have never paid for this television before without the court's decision. So, so far, I've been paying for this one and RTRS, and I've paid another 40 marks; when they come to me and threaten to loot, then I'll pay for the court's expenses, etc. So that's what I've been doing so far, and this is nothing new to me. In the same way BHTV means favoring, I dare say, one people or one concept, so RTRS favors one party, one concept. I, and for that reason, don't pay her without a court ruling.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19682	Replica, the esteemed representative Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19683	Mr. Novaković, I just said the SNSD Club won't support this. And when I said he was asking us Serbian people, I didn't say 1,300,000 Srbin because I don't know how many of us there are. First, I don't know how many of us are alive! I didn't say two or ten, I said Serbian people. So, I'm not protecting myself behind that people, nor am I speaking for the people, nor am I a representative of the exclusive RS, I'm saying what people say. But I've said it loud and clear, and I'm going to repeat that you, not you, to understand, you've heard, you see from a stenogram: the SNSD club won't support any conclusions until there's no clarity on this television and it brings the situation to zero and there's no financial consolidation, and we don't support it, and I've talked about the programming scheme in particular, and let them say tonight that we're pressuring, as it is, whatever some announcements and worse say. We don't support that television, it's our problem because we won't let it offend us and humiliate us.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19684	Business intervention, distinguished representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19685	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on television ended in the last assembly, the previous assembly. The previous congregations were, I would say, amendments and allow the Commission to do what this assembly had done before it, based on these amendments. I would ask you not to open the debate further on this part because we will come into a situation that today's events tomorrow, at the next session, discuss and we can never finish this thing. So please, if we can focus on that part and then, on that basis, some decision is made. I would say just one more thing, and that is that the Commission has tried to amend us to simply see the essence of what you asked, Mr. Novaković, the language of the people or... languages. Therefore, what are the official languages, they refer to these things. And on the other hand, we couldn't specify or say that, that is, the Council of Ministers approves the funds but that's why 45 said to support certain things that are essential to the development of the broadcasting system: digitalisation and stately at the moment, and that with its own forces comes; I guess in the next debate, which I'm going to have, some of these things off the agenda that we're all talking about. And that means that we have assigned the management there as Parliament... that this management must take action, first of all, to save and propose to get out of this situation. I would therefore ask if we can go back not to the discussion and... this, because it doesn't seem to fit what we agreed last time.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19686	I thank the honourable representative for his constructive intervention, but here's how much you'll appreciate it. Next is the debate; is it a debate or? Debate, okay. The next is for the debate, distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19687	I will return to these conclusions and I must really say that these conclusions have lost all meaning. I have to say, whether anyone liked it or not, on stage in BiH is orchestrated systematically, undemocratic, unremembered pursuit of ruling, individual ruling autocrats on the media in this country. This is not in any European country – not in those countries that are in the EU, not in those countries waiting to join the EU – you cannot find an example of daily interference in the editorial policy of the media, daily pressures, negative labelling, attacks, etc. I think it would be good if we had a paramentary majority, that this House of Representatives, within these conclusions, invites the High Representative in BiH, the relevant EU institutions, the Council of Europe, institutions that protect human rights in BiH, NGOs, etc. to try to include everyone in protecting the essential independence of media in this country, as one of the pillars of civil and civil society that is clearly at risk. According to a report by many and international agencies on media independence: the situation has never been worse since '95. To this day. And, I must say, when someone here says what's embarrassing, which isn't, etc., the worst thing a man could hear these days was a statement by entity Prime Minister Dodik who literally said that he doesn't care at all that the Council of Ministers declared July 11th as Saddening Day. That man, you can replicate as much as you want, but he's more than just a politician turning into a real political monster.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19688	But it's really not on the agenda. If you want replicas, just you...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19689	No, I'm talking about conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19690	But it's not on the agenda. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19691	Yeah, I'm talking about conclusions. I suggest a conclusion within these conclusions and I call on you and chair you to perhaps intervene in time when people here start to make or quote things, and there are no Srbin, and there are no Hrvat, and there are no Bošnjak on TV, etc., and there are obvious pressures in front of the eyes and domestic and international public. BH television needs to try to be more bh. Man, and there are those who are hungry and poor and deceived, among all the peoples and men of this land.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19692	Thank you. Honorable representative Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19693	Well, even though we expected to return to these Commission conclusions, it was only in the first part of the discussion promised by a respected colleague, Bećirović, and then he hit on his own, what his job was and what his job was. I expected that, at the beginning of the discussion, Mr. Dodik would be congratulated on the reception in Internacional and that perhaps the others might have a little fun with these social democratic international stories, but perhaps, today, there was no place and you can do it in the halls, we will receive that card and it is not disputed. I think it would have been a more positive thing if you'd done Mr. Dodik here. If that's how you talk about Mr. Dodik as a political monster, that's what he says about you. It speaks of a Bosniak SDP who is already looking over the fence at RS, because there is no one there to say. Because there's no one there to say it because that policy you're leading brought you here only to say it from here but not there. And you used to have people out there who could say great things and say good things. Unfortunately, with this kind of policy, this kind of disqualification, you've brought yourself here and you should say you speak for the Bosniak SDP and speak for the Federation and speak for the RS prime minister from those positions. Then it'll be much clearer and much cleaner. This struggle for the first position among the Bošnjak you are now leading and at any cost you are trying to get hold of, against which I have nothing, I just resent that it should not be done through Mr. Dodik, but you have enough problems inside, where SDP can fight for that position, you have enough and if your only confidant Dodik is that you seek that position through it, I'm afraid it's a very hollow map and you'll have a lot of problems there. I think you should turn to some other things. What you've been doing today is degutantly, I'll say it in the discussion. Because if the SDP who has said that the opposition is 50 times today and defends the fever media in this country, then the question is, who is the authority here, who is the opposition?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19694	Replica, the esteemed representative Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19695	The SDP does not defend the media, defend the values and principles of civil society in BiH, and in this struggle, no one will, certainly, stop it, Mr Kalabić, and your boss saying that July 11th has nothing to do with it and that it is none of his business, and at the head of the Council of Ministers who made that decision is the man from his party, most of which speaks of him, exactly. 47 And what SDP status is on BHTV, etc. We could talk about that. And we're very unhappy with our status, etc., but we don't want to talk about the way you do it, because you keep doing it, you're making extra pressure, extra pressure on the media to keep you as much as possible in the media and that people on TV are afraid to let anyone on BHTV go at some point if they don't belong to you and your thoughts. Unfortunately, that's where you went after your hand in the RS, that's where you set up a media dictatorship, that's where you brought down all the institutions of civil society and you're trying to master it at the state level. But it's going to be a little harder for you here, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19696	Replica, the distinguished representative of Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19697	Mr. Bećirović, a colleague of Jovičić said the SNSD's position on Srebrenica and what was happening with Srebrenica. And I expected you to say about Bratunac, to fix a little bit, fix that little Bosniak picture of your SDP that's too, not black and white, but black. You've had that chance now, but you've got her all over Dodik who doesn't, Mr. Dodik's statement has nothing to do with the subject of television today, but your frustration with Dodik can decide to put his picture under a pillow, you've got him all night. And you can do that, that communication with Dodik and that kind of story you can do, as these parapsychologists and others call it, in that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19698	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19699	Well, colleague Bešlagić, you should have, Mr Lagumdžija criticised Mr Bećirović today, you could have told him because you were closest to him. That what he said had nothing to do with the agenda, it had nothing to do with the conclusions we're talking about. And then you ask us to silence the story of the political monster, Mr. Bešlagić. Well, if you think we're going to identify ourselves as political monsters here and if you tolerate it and ask me to keep it quiet - colleague Bešlagić, it's good for you, it's not a problem for you! The rest are saints, only Dodik is a political monster! You have the right to think so, but you have no right to expect me to feel that way, you have no right, you have no right! You were supposed to meet those workers here in front of the Federation government building and those demobilized fighters and tell them that Dodik is a political monster. You should have gone out before them, so I would have told you what kind of answer they would have given you. Come on, try to tell them that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19700	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19701	Another replica, and I end up in another line to Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19702	Just take it easy, I haven't given the word yet, I'm just asking what it is. Give me some respect for the order. Since you don't respect each other, even if you respect the order. We sit here, sit down, sit down until I give you my word, 48 just sit down until I give you my word. So I'll, when I give you my word, then you can tell me what you mean. So let's try to stick to any order here. So, you guys, how when it suits anyone, you ask me to interrupt the other one, and then you step away from the agenda, this little thing doesn't matter. And I said, if you want replicas, here you go, you'll have them and we can... all you want. However, it is not a contribution to the successful work of this session today. So whoever does this, let them know that it's not a contribution to successful work. We're going to try to work today, and here we are, and we're going to take advantage of it while you figure out what anyone's going to replicate to who, try to do it before the break until the agenda is closed, and then we'll take a break and then we'll go to the decision on the working points of the agenda. Normally, if you allow it. Otherwise we'll be working no longer than 18 hours today. If we don't finish today, we'll continue tomorrow. So, so you know the time we have, I have at least time, so we can work for five days, but I don't think there's any reason for us to conduct the debates that distance us from the essential issues. So try, here's everyone, to make a contribution to discussing what's on our agenda and to make a contribution to making what we adopt better. Here, now the line for replicas has been signed up by the distinguished representative Denis Bećirović, and then the distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19703	Mr. Lozančić, I would ask you to behave properly as chairman and not abuse that function of yours. That's what I'm telling you for the next reason. Mr. Jovičić spoke for 10 minutes, three times as long as I did. He went far beyond the agenda of me, and you didn't find it appropriate to say it at that time. I would ask you to at least balance your relationship with the MPs a little bit. Now let me tell Mr. Kalabić a few things. Mr. Kalabić should not worry about multiethnic SDP. We go out in about 110 municipalities throughout BiH, in 40, about 40 municipalities in RS and, if you are interested in multiethnic composition of these lists from Banja Luka to Trebinj, look, so you will see that this is not how you are showing it. And another thing about this sentence about a political monster. That's not the SDP's attitude, that's what I said. A man who does not admit that July 11th is the Day of Grief in this country, a man who publicly destroys the flag of a country whose citizen is also a man who calls for a secession of BiH -- he calls for war in this country. Anyone who does that is nothing but a political monster in this country. And I have to say, he's not the only problem in this country, but he's obviously becoming the biggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19704	Dear Representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19705	Well, here's the thing, I really think we're a little further away from the conclusions, but here's to making a contribution to that move, since I've answered the line. In fact, I don't think it's correct, and because of 49 of that, I've reported, there's no correct objection to the work of the Public Service to interpret as a wish, a desire for someone to master that service. So, look, I said my position about the way Milorad Dodik and SNSD see it publicly, so I said it through TVRS' views, but you can't say that the remarks we have on the BH service are motivated by that motive. My parents are not motivated and in many cases they agree with SNSD's remarks, so they're not motivated to do so. God Bog we have any greater influence. We didn't even have it when we were in power, and now, just workin', we're not thinking of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19706	Honorable representative Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19707	The Honorable Chairman, it is true that I have spoken so much but it was all about these points of the agenda and the Commission's proposals,...the conclusions, the proposals, here. When it comes to this consolidation plan, I said – Javezluk. Point 1. Well, please, here's the time. Well, the House of Representatives is looking for this completely impartial, fair, all unfair, and not to repeat. So I was speaking in the context of the proposal for conclusions and stressed once and to break the fan once. Mr. Bećirović, as far as BHTV is concerned, we're not interested in it, and none of us should ever show up because nobody's looking at it in the RS. What matters to me is if anyone sees me in Duvno, and if he sees me, I'd like him to see me, say something affirmative about me. They'll say the worst, maybe, but thank Bog let them speak, I perform cautiously, I don't insult anyone, I speak my views and I, fortunately, have the support of these people. And this particular TV should be calling me every other night, here I am talking a little bit within the BH. When I say against television and these concepts, I'm not against BiH. I wish this was a neat medium so I could applaud now and for the first time hear applause in this House as others applaud. And that, Mr. Bećirović, which you go wide and say where you're running for, right, that's your right, and it's your success to run for office in every municipality but fortunately your result in RS is zero. It makes us happy that you don't have any influence there, and that, you can run for office in America, what's your score? But, well, please, every discussion of yours, which I support, when you say it, from your point of view, is fine. Why bother you, Dodik, when he is not a member of this House? Is that what you think everything he says you're making up for us? Dodik, I'm not his spokesman, he said – he doesn't admit that date. Well, I guess it was logical for the Council of Ministers to say, when I can't agree on one date, here's two days of mourning in BiH, so whoever wants and should respect everyone as I respected 11. But don't just selectively do it. So if the Srebrenica City Assembly said -- here's a proposal for the Council of Ministers to make the 11th Day of Grief for all the victims, for all the victims. We'll accept that. But don't be so selective, Mr. Bećirović, so the Srbin died. And I've told you a hundred times, at least in this House: I'm not asking for a balance in number, with bidding, it's God's sin, I'm asking for a balance in the amount of justice. Well, we have a duty to someone to our people to tell them what's going on here, but we can't keep letting everyone who comes here, from the editors, I don't know, this one, that one. That's your attitude. So please, don't invoice here and transfer any problems from RS to BiH. And how far will I convince you? I live here, my family lives, this is my country. And the way you want to make it, it won't be mine. So please, let's make a deal. Oh, don't ask every 50 questions about what Dodik said, they'll come from Banja Luka what Silajdžić said in Sarajevo, what Čović said. And when are we gonna get out of this circle? The problem of the whole, I end up, my discussions were these proposals of conclusions and each point deserved another 10 minutes of analysis, but I joined the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19708	Thank you. No more reports for replicas. It does, doesn't it? Your Honor, the discussion? Dear Representative Bahtić: discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19709	Thank you. As a member of the Transport and Communications Commission, I support all the proposed, adopted conclusions on the Commission. We all know that the state of public service of the TV service is very bad, difficult, catastrophic and, in my opinion, it is urgent to act. And here, we've been dealing with this for a year, every Malten Dom returns to the Commission, the House Commission. So that's the way it is, that's the way it's supposed to be dealt with. The diagnosis is known, we should, so we should go, I am, right now, for public service, for state television, there is no country in Europe that has no state television, public TV service, because only state television can objectively inform citizens throughout this area. Afterwards I will say some things – what I think and what most citizens, where I at least move, think about the Public TV Service. I will also say first and as chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission that only BHTV had a negative report, the only one, and trust among the five who did not, after our four acts, mean the Commission, means we had one principle: every three months we inform those who had the shortcomings to remove... those recommendations of the Ombudsman. The only state television has never entitled to write that she did anything, and I think she did something, but she didn't do anything to answer us. They didn't even have the decency to come when they were invited among these five. The finance ministry did so, so there are only three other institutions left, and among them is state television. And they have, believe me, the most drawbacks. Since the non-compliance with the Public Procurement Act, there are no rules on various payments, incentives, internal control, minority, not to work, marketing where one agency gets 70% of the job and gets 70 percent re-exploitation. I used to say that, I'm saying that again – it doesn't make sense to me as much use as anyone can get. I don't mind, but it should be removed. If there is no rulebook, bring the rulebook, you cannot determine the coefficient from month to month. And to me as an economist, it's inconceivable that TV, when collected with 25%, had a loss of 1.5 million, now it's 63%, buy a tax, is now a loss of 14.5 million. So, the bigger taxes they collect, the bigger the loss. As long as it's not respecting the Public Procurement Act, I have to say it as chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, so I am in favour of making financial consolidation, resuscitating and debt, we need service. However, the TV must establish order in its home. A man came to me the other day, an employee from state TV, and brought paper: 800,000 marks, laundering money again. Equipment is being purchased, one technical director is getting equipment from his son-in-law, a brother-in-law from another television station here in Sarajevo, a law on public procurement is not being respected, and that equipment cannot be used, some other equipment must be obtained to function. So, the SIPA has a lot of work to do there, the SIPA, that's where people still work... still launder money. 51 Well, it is also inconceivable to me, and Public TV service in the function of all citizens, normally, means why on 'The Theme of the Days' – now they will say meddling in politics, I don't interfere – it was never about taking away the property of the Union of Communists, and you are putting topics of the day as Lagundžija tells you. That's where the state is the most damaged. Wait, wait, that's what my voters tell me.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19710	What's the matter?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19711	In this show 'The theme of the day', it would be logical to say citizens: Parliament has adopted here with, minors, a vast majority of that decision, and not to mention public TV service, and you need money. Well, the money's there, so we'll pay back. You must be objective. Even after that directed case, from the rest of the communists'... on FTV, believe me, people told me, it was inconceivable to me, as Malten says, you have a state TV ban. I say it in public. I have never been invited by anyone, although I am the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, after the Commission no one can call, they have an order from the SDP, even I was the Law on Salaries, hot topics, they must not. Is it a public tv service or is it in the function of a failed political party? Wait a minute, wait a minute, so this isn't a committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19712	Could you turn around here a little bit, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19713	I see here a discussion from the SDP, the minority, the parties of this media, when who put pressure on the media? Here's the other day in Bihac they hired from the SDP on state TV, the other day, so they're doing it publicly. Here, colleague Rifat Dolić knows who he is. It's got to stop in there, a public competition, you can't get off the street who you say you are. It's all facts, facts. Well, you are, and I know things like that. And you, Mr. Bećirović, just now you said, I am not excluded from the party, nor will I ever be excluded, and thanks to the fight against crime, corruption and former commies, I have the most votes and I will always have the most, because of yours, that's right. Also, I'll say this, I have to say it, believe me. I'm moving in the field. When the anniversary of Titt's death, I have nothing against Tito, people say, back in the field two months ago, they tell me, Sado, there's more communism, even some representatives of the international community said, there's more communism on the Public TV Service than in the '70s. That's the way it is. I'm told by some strangers, so you want to go to Europe, and you want the Communism system to fail. Is that a public tv service that wants to return something that's failed? If it was good, it wouldn't have failed. That's it, thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19714	This way, so that you don't live in the belief that I don't know the Rules of Procedure, that I don't notice how many times you're discussing the agenda, and how many times you're out of the agenda, but since you're all doing it, 52 really, really because you're all doing it, I'd really be unfair, as the distinguished representative Bećirović said, if I were just warning someone, so I'm trying, like this, I'll send a warning to all of you. So we've been discussing this for the third time, so we've discussed this report first, so we've discussed it again, so we've re-returned to this esteemed committee that politely asked us to no longer have this kind of trust in him and to try to end it today. The conclusions are coffees like that. I haven't heard a single proposal in terms of improving the proposal for a conclusion, so none, no matter who answered, no matter who discussed it, means, and they discussed everything and everything. I'm asking you, so I'm asking you to really try to make a contribution to work more efficiently. So, if you have specific amendments, conclusions, suggest them, and we can both plead amendments and conclusions. So this debate, I believe you have needs for it, but try to relieve this home of these discussions, try. I have to say... as long as you're all acting like one, I won't warn anyone individually. I'm trying to tell everyone, call you, but if most of you are, then I really don't, I have no reason to personally call someone. Did you have the need for a replica of more, uh, business interventions? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19716	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to have my discussion very briefly on sublimating these some kind of debates and maybe I'll spread a little bit by some, let me try to say, guiding conclusions. As far as the SDS' position on Milorad Dodik and the SNSD is concerned, it's known to everyone, and we don't need to put our attitude here. It is seen through our discussions and through our struggles within the RS, etc. And we make our views of his policy very clear and determined. However, in addition to all that we have this attitude towards their policy and towards it personally, he is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, and we cannot agree that some RS Prime Minister is called a political monster. I strongly condemn it, and I will condemn anyone to criticise such instructions, but according to the Prime Minister who is now...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19717	My dear colleague, I'm sorry to interrupt, I'm sorry to interrupt, but I'm doing it for you. Since it really doesn't make sense this relationship between you and my colleagues while you're discussing it,...you're going very correctly, we don't have a quorum, so for that reason I'm giving a break for an hour. 53 [[PAUZA]] The debate has a distinguished representative Okolić after we interrupted him, and he will probably arrive in the meantime, so we will give him our word if we reach the conclusion of the debate. And the next one was announced by Honorable Representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19719	Did you give up?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19720	I didn't. Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, most of it has been said about this issue and these conclusions. What I want to draw attention to, since the conclusion is no. 4 for us troublesome! He's troublesome for the following reasons. To remind me: in that conclusion, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers to continue paying for satellite rentals and to provide interventions for the needs of the BiH Public TV System, based on membership in international associations. Since I have here a letter of 11 April from our minister, Božo Ljubić, in which he says in a rather extensive letter but I will read two paragraphs relating to certain funds and says that 'the money mentioned by law is intended solely to support the development and promotion of the Communication Sector in BiH, which, of course, excludes the purpose for investment, business or current costs.' And finally, where he also says: "This ministry has warned the Directorate of Public TV Service in Sarajevo that in the future it cannot count on the financing of satellite transfers by money allocated by the Council of Ministers, and that they need to establish a self-financed form of business." Given that this is the official position of the Ministry which is in direct contrast to what we are looking for, and they already have a view on the matter, I think that conclusion 4, in some way, should either be withdrawn or withdrawn, and wait with it to wait for the other measures we are looking for here and after these deadlines that we have set in other conclusions to possibly discuss the category of debts, because in this conclusion it is not the category of debts that is already, in some way, required to continue paying the rent of satellites in some subsequent period, and the Ministry was clearly determined accordingly. That's why I think we need to find a way to set ourselves up according to this article, according to this conclusion. 4th and then, eventually, we could talk about a positive outcome of the vote on these conclusions. And finally, I ask of you, the chairman, that given the difficult words that MP Bećirović used here in this House to speak of the prime minister, the RS Prime Minister, calling him a political monster, but it is even more difficult to qualify that he publicly said that this man is causing war in BiH. Such behaviour, as I know, is based on all the positive regulations and is responsible for anyone who causes war and anyone who makes any moves in that direction, I think it deserves one penalty, a warning, to find space and in which direction I think those are too difficult words to be heard by us from the SNSD Club today. Thank you. _________(?) 54 [[no microphone turned on]] Fools, fools and war are two incomparable things. The fool is too much, he's not just.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19722	Thank you. The following has been reported, or has been reported by the esteemed representative Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19723	Thank you very much, Chairman. Here I am going to move on to this second part. And the competent commission has indeed done a good part of the work here and what is in its power, and I would like her efforts, perhaps in relation to some who and perhaps where this report is, to commend. Because she could probably do as much as she did and according to her ability, composition and time, there was not much better to do, actually at her level this done. But I don't think this is going to be enough to solve this issue that we're discussing today either, I don't know which time and which one would have, here, when we have these conclusions, to read, and it's said, 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly advocates legitimate and stable business'... and to continue to read that conclusion. So "that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the Management Board of the Public TV Service and the Management Board and the Management Board" etc. "to take advantage of all legal possibilities" etc. So "The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly requires the Management Board and BHRT1 management to rationalise business and exploit internal reserves" etc. So 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is asking the Governing Board', again asking for something from the Governing Board, so 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly requires of the Governing Board', etc. This is what we have on several occasions and demanded and sought and this is... things and, if I knew that this would be carried out in action, it would be enough for me and I would join some and join those who have suggested that we individually plead these conclusions and we and I will surely support some of these conclusions. And I'd be happy to know that this will be settled. However, I am not sure that this problem will be solved with these conclusions because there is no explicit responsibility here and what if nothing happens to the duties and minor applications, and I am convinced that nothing will happen. Well, let's now go to these new conclusions that they've made again so that I might make myself a member of the Commission, but I'm sure they won't be the conclusions that bear fruit. Here, I must read: 'To meet the establishment of the Corporation, the Board of Directors of BHRT and the Management Board of the Public TV System shall be tasked, in accordance with Articles 12 and 29. The Law on Public TV Service of BiH defines the organisational, technological and production role in the organisation units in Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Mostar, as well as the number of employees in each of them." And that's something that's been extorted that... we could in that conclusion as we get, but that's meant to be, and that's certainly not the solution to this problem that should be solved, is it? This is their obligation and no borrowing from such a tall home. And then: 'It is due', again, 55 'The Board of Management of BHRT, the Management Board of the Public TV System to take all actions in accordance with existing laws' at the latest by the end of July 2008, I do not know, 'with the aim of providing adequate conditions on the market for marketing services in BiH and that the Board of Directors of BHRT informs the Parliamentary Assembly's House at the latest by the end of August 2008. 'years.' All faith, by the end of August this year when they... etc. I would, in addition to these conclusions that we're going to plead today and I suggest, mean that individually try to get out of this the next way. Compared to Article 29. The Rules of Procedure, which are said to be able to 'form the temporary committees of the House' and Article 30 (3) and (4) where it is said that 'the Commission can request the occasional assistance of experts from the list', that I do not read any further, suggested that we form – is I am afraid that these conclusions today and that if we adopt them all as they are, they will not remove this from the dead spot – a new commission that will ask for the experts of the caliber of the one who will be able to make this issue in terms of the proposal to this home, and that once the point of this one is removed from the agenda. Because here today you are witnesses, or we are all witnesses that through more debates it has been established or can be determined or determined, it is better said, that BHRT1's ratings are different from that of the people in BiH, that they accept it differently as their television, that the representatives of a nation do not accept it at all and do not experience it as a public tv service, which is not good. It is therefore a general problem, and it is a really extremely complex matter, because it is a public medium that dictates a better political climate in one country, and this is about BiH. Therefore, my proposal is to establish this temporary commission in accordance with Article 29 and Article 30(3) and (4) and where it has the right to seek assistance from experts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19724	Thank you. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19725	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really didn't think there was much to talk about, but now I'm gonna have to. First of all, I have to say that we're being unfair to ourselves, and then we're being incorrect to the chairman. This is not the first time that we have jumped out of the agenda and in context and these points, I do not want to engage, or to be caught in the same trap as many others, I am building on all those discussions that did not have much to do with this part of the agenda. And unfortunately there wasn't much, it shouldn't have had anything to do with what we were supposed to discuss today, not in the broader context of the agenda. You know well that the debate on this issue, the parliamentary debate, the plenary debate ended long ago, and it was, I think, the third parliamentary debate, the last of both homes. That it was then concluded that this appropriate committee of the conclusions that you have proposed here made conclusions. Therefore, these are not the Commission's conclusions, these are the well-united conclusions that you MPs have proposed, which were in line with the agenda. And the agenda point is the Public TV Service business for 2005 and 2006, not even here. And no software content, etc. etc. and it really needs to be discussed, but it wasn't the subject of this agenda point. 56 So these are your conclusions, these are not the Commission's conclusions, please. The Commission has united all of this, where it has been repeated, and, once again, I stress, it has taken those conclusions of yours that were related to the operation of the Public TV Service and the measures to implement the status reports set out in the 2005 and 2006 audit reports on financial operations. Last time you had these conclusions and after your remarks and amendments to this we reunited it here and almost all included, the Commission was almost unanimously behind this, there were several amendments that were not acceptable and this was almost unanimously rejected by the Commission because they did not fit into this agenda. Among other things, there was Yukic's amendment, Azra's amendment, which was related to the last decision by the CIA not to accept an increase in taxes, because we said everything that came after the debate, no, no, we can't go in. And you're supposed to be discussing it today only eventually. There was an opportunity for you to change those conclusions, to point out where we made the failure, which we didn't cover. It wasn't done then, now it's going with a series of different proposals and amendments. I don't think that's good. I'll tell you now personally my relationship to this. These conclusions are one compromise, a compromise compared to this whole debate that creates Parliament either positive or, rather speaking, which gives parliament an active relationship to what is happening in the Public TV Service and what will happen. You see here a series, a few measures, not a series, a few measures that we're already suggesting, but in two months we're looking for appropriate reports. We are looking for internal reforms that must be implemented and we will look for reports on this issue. This is the first time this matter has ever come to Parliament. And I say again, this is my personal opinion now: the cuts right now, I don't think they would be productive, and especially if we take the fact that what was inherited from the past period and that the Public TV service, it has also created, how can I say, by imposing, and then this situation has been held for a long time without anyone's influence, without political influence, not on the programme, but on the functioning of BiH, is now an opportunity, now an opportunity has been given for Parliament to have an active position in relation to the Public TV Service. And I still have to point out the same thing. It was here from fellow suggestions, remarks, here, whether this management will be able to answer the task at all or not, we can't answer that question directly now, but we are given an active position if we adopt these conclusions that we are working on as well. Because bear in mind the fact that both the current board of directors and the current management are the most important part of the period of what we are considering, once again I want to remind you, we are considering 2005 and 2006, not what they are now. Now we have 2007 behind us, we have audit reports, we have a series of these discussions, we have an active position through these conclusions, it seems to me that there is a new opportunity and with new topics that have been discussed today outside the context of the agenda to talk about the Public TV Service and to really influence that it is changing and that it becomes a public TV service for all citizens. Not a single nation, not a single political option, because through it it will either bring itself down or survive. If it doesn't, he won't be able to survive. And we need in that context to help him be like that. This gives him a chance to be like that, give him a chance to be like that, everything else seems to me, under a big question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19726	I thank the esteemed representative Dokić. No more reports, and I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. 57 We move to the 17th point of the established agenda: Ad. 17. Report by the College Committee on the Effort to reach an agreement on the Opinion of Representative Sadik Ahmetović from the 31st session of the House (in connection with the meeting of the Council of Ministers to discuss the requirements of decertified police officers) You've reached the College's report on the effort to achieve consensus. There is no agreement between the Colleges, so there should be a second-round vote. Does anyone need to discuss this? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 18th point of the agenda: Ad. 18. Selection of members of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, in accordance with Article 8. Law on the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19729	Some special need after your exposure, and I don't. I just wanted to clarify that I felt that it was necessary and important to have time and time with the initiative in front of this house, so that we could have this very important institution within our judiciary in full capacity. So, you have a proposal for a candidate. I have also held previous consultations at the High Court and Prosecutor's Council in the leadership and in the judicial authorities and received positive assurances of the proposed candidate's work so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19730	I thank Mr. Belkić. Any other suggestions? There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the hearing. We move to the 19th point of the established agenda: Ad. 19. Request of the Joint Committee for Administrative Affairs to consider Proposal for a Decision on Amendments to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat Secretariat's establishment under a hasty procedure On 19 June 2008, the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs delivered the draft decision procedure referred to in this point with a proposal to consider and adopt it by an urgent procedure. The motion for a decision has been made. I'm opening a debate on a request for an emergency procedure. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to the 20th point of the agenda: Ad. 20. Changes in House membership, joint committees of both homes and delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH – Proposer: Clubs of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19735	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19736	You want it or you don't want it, just say it? Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19737	So I have to say that I thought, but after this call I almost gave up, not from this resolution, but from the explanation of the resolution. But well, so... some views about this resolution we could hear when we discussed the agenda of this session and hopefully now we're discussing in a quieter atmosphere than we had. Given that there are no cameras, so these events in Srebrenica have passed, too, etc. And I guess now there are no serious reasons why someone would really want this resolution not to be seriously considered in this House. Of course, parliament will define it in the way he thinks it. So last time I said it was a resolution, so it was adopted in the European Parliament and it means... it was changed in four places. And it has been amended in parts of Resolution 1096 – on measures to remove the legacy of the former communist totalitarian regimes. So it's some annexes that are embedded in this resolution that I can read, of course, because I thought, since this Resolution 1096, too, means a adopted resolution in another parliament, I thought this wasn't impossible to do here. Namely, I will read only this annex, so the first part speaks or Aaneks One speaks, means: 'The democratic state based on the rule of law of the sea to remove the legacy of the former communist totalitarian systems applies... the means of such a state. It cannot use any other means because it would be no better than the totalitarian regime to be removed." So that's to add part, then: 'The state based on the rule of law can also defend itself against reviving the communist totalitarian threat', meaning, only by legal, of course, means means means. Then, the objectives of the transition process! Since we're in tansion, I thought it was important that we have defined the objectives of this transition process defined and ultimately, here's a recommendation. So... recommends that the crimes committed by individuals during the communist totalitarian regimes be prosecuted and punished under relevant criminal law. So, as you can see, none of this means, in any way, it has referred more to BiH than the resolution adopted by the European Parliament itself. What I was sure of when I proposed this resolution is that in this parliament, even in BiH today, there is not a single party that supports total, meaning the totalitarian communist regime. I thought it was something that had passed, and that's why I thought it was logical, and I even believed that this resolution would not cause any special turbulence here or anywhere else. Of course, at least I thought it would be the SDP, because I thought they welcome this resolution so that they would completely clear themselves from the communist regime, given that it was the Social Democratic Party. And I thought that this was the most in favor of just those... so there wouldn't be a dilemma, so who belongs to who after all this is happening. Also, I didn't think this had anything to do with socialism, and today I don't think it has anything to do with socialism, let alone social democracy. But this resolution is a kind of warning and it is one of the objectives of proposing this resolution, a kind of warning that if it has any intention or intention to re-create a totalitarian society in these areas, whether it be communist or not, but if it is a totalitarian society, then this society is clearly against such intentions. I used to think that this might be a message to the authorities in RS that their attempts, meaning, there, that, by creating a system in which, unfortunately, a lot of things is not completely democratic, that this is in some way a message that simply we in these areas have had enough negative experience with totalitarian 61 regimes and that we are all absolutely unique in that we are against such systems regardless of what they are communist or others, if meaning they are oriented in this direction. I don't think I should explain these views individually. It would be good if those who disagree or colleagues who have had objections that they had in the commission phase of the amendment, so perhaps today I should respond either to one of the amendments or if there is a need today I am ready, of course, for all the misunderstandings about this that as far as I can answer as I can as a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19738	Thank you. It's a replica, isn't it? Honorable representative Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19739	The Honorable Chairman! Mr. Novaković, just get into that resolution that this system applies to, so you don't come back to power. I'll vote for that resolution, so it won't be a new totalitarian system, but when it comes to you, if you're thinking about us, you're wrong and you don't need any resolution here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19740	Okay. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19741	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I answered the discussion for two reasons. The first reason that I was a member of the Commission for European Integration, where this resolution came into debate, in writing I declared that I was against this resolution for a number of reasons, but I said I would give my argument to Parliament. The first reason is that this is the European Parliament resolution and that, by logic of things, should be presented and ratified in this Parliament, if we want to be, let's say, on the basis of European evaluations, an evaluation of these systems. Secondly, I believe that this resolution has been put outside the European Parliament resolution. The resolution of the European Parliament has six points, and here is the proposer who, from some knowledge, has just received co-operation with the other party... the materials so he passed it on, and it is not the other party. He gave 12, which means he added a man by six, expanded the same in this, that is, in this resolution is the condemnation of the Central and Eastern European system, which absolutely... because that resolution has already been in '48. years convicted and someone named Tito and the party didn't promote him at all, but that's why we had certain consequences. Maybe if it hadn't been done then, maybe today we'd be in a completely different situation, but not getting into those assumptions. The third thing is what it means by that resolution in point 3. The European Parliament here is said to be "The Parliamentary Assembly acknowledges that despite the crimes of totalitarian communist regimes, some European Communist party has contributed to the achievement of democracy." It's typical, i.e. this point is strictly, i would say, brought to the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, i.e. now as it's called, it's not... SDP, come on. If the Bahtić fits, we can say so. Therefore, I think this resolution as a European resolution of the European Parliament, I have no objection that 62 is ratified in Parliament without these annexes and supplements, because in this annex, I said, that this resolution is now being imposed as a resolution above the European resolution. In point 11, we ask European parties, communists to condemn... that what absolutely, I mean, cannot be more Catholic than the Pope, believe me. I don't think in all of this I didn't think that this resolution was malicious, but in the problems that we have today at human rights violations and all that is happening, I think we should discuss it first and discuss everything that happens to us after this phenomenon and fascism and nationalism, and only then or in part of what it's called and what it's called, I'd say, totalitarian communist systems that I absolutely claim -- I've never been a commie, I've been a member of the Union of Communists since I was 45 years old, right now, to tell you that I've been regularly paying membership fees -- that system has allowed me to finish school and allow me to have so many and so many employees that today people may even regret that system, not for the Communist party but for that system. From those...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19742	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19743	Well, you're not a people, you sick Bahtić. Go out and look with your eyes, for those, for these reasons.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19744	I'm just asking you, I'm asking you to refrain from throwing and listen to each other and when you disagree with each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19745	And I would ask, I suggest, that this declaration is downloaded until the moment we discuss the totality of what I have said and the fascism and the nationalism and other crimes that have been committed, because I believe that this time is simply not for this resolution or, in other words, if we will, then bring the European Parliament resolution on the condemnation of totalitarian regimes, to adopt it anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19746	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Okolić, then Bahtić, the replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19747	Well, my replica is going to be made up, I just want to go through one question, and I'd like to, Mr. Bešlagić, if you could explain to me, I don't understand what this means to the commie, and what does it mean to be a member of the Communist Union? Well, if I could clear up a few things later, I don't know if you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19748	No microphone shared discussion 63
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19749	If you've apologized, let's move on. Just please don't ever invite me to warn anyone again, so please don't invite me to warn you, because I can only warn or interrupt the sessions, so it's hard to keep order. Dear Representative Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19750	It's a replica, isn't it? I thought, well, I couldn't agree with my colleague, Selim Bešlagić, when he, she, she said that most of them, and so on. The vast majority condemns this totalitarian regime. When he mentioned a colleague of Staljin, nothing was different. Calculate per capita who killed more, how many Yugoslavia's former inhabitants, how much where Staljin lived, so you will see that the former regime of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia has killed more than Staljin. And what did you do after '48? A year? You killed people without courts, what were you doing in the Casin region, what were you doing on the naked island? _________(?) ... We're gonna need a stenogram. [[no microphone turned on]] Exactly, you will get everything and, gentlemen dear, here your president publicly says, "We are ideological and political and legal heirs to the former KKJ." And you say it publicly, and the only legal thing you can't be is, you're going to have to, that's, that's the property of all the political parties and all the citizens, and that's the second thing you don't even say, is, so. In my opinion, I think you're... sitting down. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19753	I'm just asking you to...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19754	You want the property of the Communist Union when you're left-handed? Then listen to the arguments here! That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19755	The following was reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19756	What do you say, drago? 64
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19757	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19758	Okay. So, our colleague Momčilo Novaković knows how to prepare quality for the debate and discuss it very correctly, and I think he's doing his job here well. He's a good evaluator. He's a eloquent man. He's so experienced. But today I don't think it's a good idea to choose a theme, that it simply can't be convincing on this subject. And I don't think he did, that he didn't do it very well. It was probably the need to react to those... some resolutions about the condemnation of neofascism etc. that this was his answer. Maybe in today's vaccine they wouldn't have done it, about a month ago it probably provoked him. Why didn't he choose a theme? Because, as far as I know, he was a member of the Communist Party, so there was a time there 20 years ago to say, "People, this is not okay with what's going on, I'm leaving this party, not sitting in it until the last day, so when that party dies, after 20 years, when you make sure it doesn't come back, say it's not okay what happened and sit there." Also, being in the SDS, passing him and the war and what happened after the war, and we know what was going on, and then we talk about the connection between ideology, politics, parties, war crimes. So, being first in the Communist Party, then in the SDS, and then preaching about how ideology knows how to affect... it leads to horny things. Maybe he'll say something about SDS in 20 years. Looks like that catharsis's coming in 20, 30 years. Why isn't it quality? Because it was just copied from the Council of Europe Resolution. She's so globally talking about how to invite all the Communist and post-Communist parties to re-evaluate the history of communism in their countries, if they haven't done so far, and that's how we from here in Sarajevo invite them to China, to Campuccia, somewhere out there who knows where to question their own. It was necessary to process the matter of communism in BiH, to say what was wrong, what was wrong, why it failed, what was to condemn, what was not to condemn, what was good. And then make such a resolution and there, I think, were invited people who were victims of it, this regime, and not who were part of that regime, to do it. I think the SDA will be restrained, because it can't be against condemning any totalitarian regime. It compares these days, these months, what Fascism did, what Communism did, Stalinism, as an extreme form, did, Communism. So we can say that somewhere around 50, somewhere 60, about 70 years ago, he ate history, depends on how many people. That then we all ended up at that starting point in '90. Because we said, it's okay to start at the point where we were in '45, this is a failed experiment one. The railways were built, infrastructures were built, schools were raised, wages increased, pensions increased, but tenfold slower than in European countries where human rights were, where you had competition, where you had competition, where you had human rights. It went ten times slower, and then eventually it all collapsed into itself, and we said, "This is gone, people, it's gone global." He ate our communism for 50, 60, 70 years and ate some millions of people, some millions of years in prison there for those who criticized. Fascism killed Nazism in 10 years, a few million people, and these took 50, 60 years to also kill a few million people just because it slowed down that totalitarianism. So we can't say today that we're against convictions, but we can't be against this resolution either, so if one 65 is ever done, right, if it's made by people who are invited to do so who have a mandate and a moral right to do so, we'll be happy to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19759	Thank you. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19760	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, here we have a resolution entitled 'Proposed Resolution on the Conviction of Communist regimes'. I just want to remind you, because part of the debate was about completely different subjects, i.e. the condemnation of other events in these areas, i.e. in the history of our spaces and of ours and a little closer or more, and in that sense I would suggest that we take care of the subject that is ahead of us. ...I listened with care to the promoter of this resolution. It was a little unclear at the beginning when counterpart Novaković said that the assumptions were fulfilled that we were seriously considering, here I was really listening, we are considering this resolution, because between the other things it passed and Srebrenica. Well, I can't bring into the context of Srebrenica and this resolution that lies ahead of us or the promoter and Srebrenica or the promoter and this resolution, etc. So maybe it wouldn't be bad, if it was really still standing on that, if maybe it would explain a little bit. I would make one correction, although, of course, there is a correction of the wrong quote and a pronoun and also my colleague Bešlagić used the construction of the 'European Parliament Resolution'. I don't know if we're thinking the same thing, whether it's 'the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe', which is completely different. And I'll remind you, for one reason only. We are a full member of the Council of Europe, and all the documents and resolutions adopted in the Council of Europe apply, of course, to all Member States and to none of the Member States should have the documents adopted where an active member is, in particular, adopted in their parliament. Because I mean, then we'd just be dealing with, is, what the Council of Europe does. However, of course that does not mean, therefore, that there is no need for any special procedure other than that carried out in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, if that is the same thing. However, it can be elaborated in more detail, if, in particular, the system of recommendations and documents and recommendations if they are specific to a specific case, let's say, of the country concerned. So, I would just remind you, for example, that the Council of Europe has adopted a lot of documents and recommendations on various topics, including, say, the arrest and prosecution of war crimes indictees, the ban on the denial of genocide, the ban on the activities of non-fascist organisations, were all under those headings or parts of some other resolutions in the system, in a set of recommendations, so different recommendations and documents of the Council of Europe. And in that sense, I'm surprised that, let's say, we've not responded to one of those before or in particular, let's say that the proposer hadn't responded before, and there's been a reason recently. And in this House, let's say, that, possibly, the laws relating to this issue are passed, so we had a negative position exactly on the legislator club of this resolution. 66 However, what I want to mention is generally our relationship to these resolutions and documents. And as far as we even know, let's say, there's a way of working or obligation, let's say, the Member States in, for example, the Council of Europe, because here we all call for that resolution. Do we, for example, respect or do we really implement all the recommendations, not selectively, start from elementary knowledge to how to accept recommendations, documents, etc. And in that sense, I would just like to remind you of a recommendation that was, as I was informed today, a good part of the debate that lasted almost two hours. And I would remind you of the letter from Tomas Hamerberg that you all MPs, colleagues and colleagues received last year when it was the way of voting for the Ombudsman, when we received a recommendation from the High Commissioner for Human Rights on secret voting and when it was explained in part and of course and at least by a minimum or by achieving a minimum of objectivity when elections are being made in independent institutions, and just as I remember the formulations of good practices in other parliaments. I only mention this as a reason why we accept things, something we remember well, something we call on, and some things don't exist for us. So let's be honest, so when we talk, for example, or give... the specific weight of some document, suggestions, resolutions, etc. Covering yourself with a European umbrella. Let me just remind you, we are a full member of the Council of Europe, we have a delegation up there that works, which actively participates, which votes in the Council of Europe, which makes decisions, which also has a mechanism to respond properly through working bodies and political groups when we have documents of this kind, why we do not react!? Why didn't we from the SDS or the MPs' club or specifically the promoter, when this resolution was adopted or discussed in the Council of Europe, have we also had a proposal for possible objections and suggestions on how to react to this delegation? Or do we know that all that is adopted above is not to be copied here, adopted, debated for hours. Because what if we don't bring or bring something different from what we've brought up as a full member of the Council of Europe!? I may have had a little bit of a different discussion than usual, and it seemed to me that we were a little off topic, and I know that this function is timed when and how to talk here, but let's cut our experiences a little bit, so let's focus a little on some of the rules of the game that this Parliament is working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19761	Thank you. The following has been reported by the esteemed representative Ekrem Ajanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19762	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, a good part of my discussion has already been said by my two predecessors, in fact, the predecessor and the predecessor, but here I feel the need to say my opinion on this resolution as well. Certainly, the very title of the proposal for a resolution on the condemnation of the communist regimes seems to me that it is far too widespread and that at some point it does not have so much importance, because judging now... here in BiH somehow does not matter. But certainly the adopted resolution in the European Parliament, or as my predecessor explained, has something else that she says in that resolution, which is that each member should analyse what is happening in his country, and therefore make certain recommendations and conclusions. I would go from one assumption, which is that this is the least spoken of in this resolution, especially about BiH as a state, because certain conditions were created, new to the 67 previous state which was much wider and where there were, let's say, a lot of things that... had to be condemned, which people, i.e. MPs from this assembly connected when... about the ban on minimising the Holocaust, genocide, etc. Starting from this assumption that the goal and resolution are not to make certain mistakes that have been made in certain dictatorial regimes, and certainly the communist regime is a dictatorship of proletariats, I, as a doctor and humanist, think that all dictatorial regimes are inhuman but, on the one hand, it makes sense to discuss it again, because in this Parliament there is always a saying or a fact - we are followers of the communist regime. So, in the minds of certain people, there is yet to be a complete resolution of certain things about communism as one movement of proletariat dictatorship. But on the other hand, I could never raise my hand or my voice to adopt resolutions from the past, and forget to solve certain problems and certain things, condemn certain things that have happened in the present or recent past. For this reason, I believe, at least as far as I'm concerned, that first when it is adopted in this House as a 'Law on the minimisation of genocide' and condemned genocide of all of us, we, no matter what party, are seen as Democrats and say that we condemn these things, that we condemn all where certain repressions have been carried out and... not only in one place, not only in half of BiH, but in all of BiH, but in Srebrenica, when we all experience it together as our obligation, because not only is it done by some people who live here, but also by the obligation of our Parliament, because we have accepted the Resolution on the ban on genocide and ratified it, the Resolution on the Holocaust and all other environments. So we must first solve certain and burning problems and then go back to the past, and in order to get back into the past, we must well analyse what happened specifically in BiH, so let me tell you, and in order to be able to think about anything concrete about any judgment and to talk about anything, we must bring first the "Lustration Law" to see who did what he was doing and what he did in any way. It is not the same as being a member of a party and fighting for certain human rights and being a member of a party, either, and performing certain repressions against people, regardless of what the party was called. So, to cut short, I agree with my predecessors, I think at this point, as far as I'm concerned, you couldn't vote for this resolution. I think we should postpone it for a certain time, and before we have to make progress in the near past what happened and condemn it and then move on to the past to make mistakes in the past, build a future that will be of quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19763	I thank the honourable representative. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19764	Dear Chairman, first of all, I would like to say that I have no intention of defending the communist system in no country in the world, nor in the former Yugoslavia. I have no intention of defending it for at least two reasons. The first is that next to me, of the 42 MPs in the House of Representatives, there may still be five, five MPs who were never members of the Communist Union. It would therefore not be 68 nor logical that I, who was never a member of the Communist Union, defend the system from those who were to a lesser or greater extent the creators of the system. The other reason why I don't want to defend this system is, which is mine, I'm talking about myself, life and political commitment: the fight for human rights and full respect for all human rights and civil freedoms. When I say that, I want to say that neither this communist system, the single-party system is why I'm fighting, because it wasn't a democratic system either. So I'm not leaving the position to defend that system at all, but I certainly want to say here that it's responsible and objective to try, right now in the 21st century, to talk about the 20th century. If all of our problems for these people, this country, perhaps even in Southeast Europe, were only since '45. By the '90s, we'd probably be happy people. However, the facts that no one can bring down say that they are not. Why would a tweezer do that to me today just take out that time interval? Does anyone want to say that the system in the Kingdom of SHS, later in Yugoslavia since '18. Until '41. It wasn't undemocratic. Yes, it was undemocratic much more totalitarian than it was that system after '45. In that system, you could come in and kill the president of the HSS, his associates, make a dictatorship, close whoever you wanted, etc. So that's the system until '41. Since '41. By '45. What happened then? Invisible genocide: Jasenovac, eastern Bosnia, Visegrad, mass Chetnic and Ustasha crimes etc. We've been coming since '45. '90s. where I said at first that it wasn't my life and political commitment and, if one man was innocently killed in that system, I condemn it. And he's not one, he's got black spots in that period. And that should be condemned. What happened after '90? Only until '95. years of mass war crimes, genocide in Srebrenica, etc. I'm just saying that you should objectively and correctly approach this subject, not in some fragmented way create a distorted image. There's a lot of convictions, but there's a lot to say and it's been positive. From the creation of ZAVNOBIH, the restoration of Bosnia and Herzegovina's statehood to descripting, especially in the first decades after '45, health policy, social policy, etc. Of course, there's a lot of why it's like that, but there's a lot of positive things that we can say were positive. I'm surprised here, so I asked for the last time to get this off the agenda, how come in the '95 BiH Parliament? To this day, it can't go "No Genocide Deny Act"! How come they can't stop the Chetniks and get up? How come we don't have any acts condemning Radovan Karadžić's politics? How come there's not a single declaration in this House that would show up after the genocide in Srebrenica? How come there's not a conviction of genocide in World War II? All this cannot go through, but according to this resolution, we should find that the only crimes seem to have been committed by the communist system, not to mention the restoration of BiH's statehood, should not be mentioned ZAVNOBIH, it should not be mentioned the role of anti-fascists in preventing mass crimes, especially in eastern Bosnia and Western Bosnia, throughout the former state. Bosnia and Herzegovina, I must say, needs first of all a denacification. And if we want to follow European principles, we should follow them first. Europe first finished the job in the first two or three decades after '45. Then came a declaration like this. I'm not going to talk, I'm going to skip this part of the attitudes of various anti-fascist organizations, but I can say that this resolution is incomplete, incorrect, in good part and inexplicable. It is very interesting this Article 9, he says, 'The danger of the communist totalitarian threat'. We all know that today in BiH you will not see anywhere that any firearms or cold weapons are lined up by some communist organisations, nor is there any more communist party in BiH. I don't know, there was some, I think, in Banja Luka, etc., but it's not parliamentary. However, in this 69 country we have some other fascist organizations that line up almost every two or three months with long knives, daggers, etc. and they threaten the returners and pose a threat. If this resolution were to be adopted, it would mean condemning the Partisans of Neretva, Sutjeska, Kozara, and we still have no position on what was happening in Jasenovac, what was happening in eastern Bosnia, and here is to Srebrenica. If this were adopted, it would mean that the only Tito villain was in the last century, and Draža Mihajlović, Pavelić and many others would not have been. It's the Roman Pope in '71. received Tito, which is the only statesman he received or received by five American presidents, which is the creator of the unclassified, which is the only one in '41. He raised his uprising against fascism, which was the only one against Stalinism in '48. years, etc. What Čerčil, de Gol, Vili Ajzenhauer, Eisenhower, Montgomeri and many others said positively about him – it should all look aside. Perhaps if we were to skip a lot today – here, this would be the last one to say – maybe one such resolution in the future and make sense on condition that everyone in this Parliament who was members of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, who thinks we should vote for this, if we said we would vote for this, and because we vote that this was the case, for moral reasons, we resign this parliament, because we were part of that system. Especially what was undemocratic in that system was these intelligence services. From the UN that was transformed into UDB, and the UDB later to SDB, the State Security Service, etc., but it is one of the same intelligence, i.e. counterintelligence services. So, if we analyzed only that part of the repressive apparatus, we would come to the conclusion that I would not offend anyone, but only if we left the Council of Ministers of BiH, would we see from our existing ministers who was in the UN, UDB, or SDP, without counting further. So, not to spread too many stories, we need an objective, realistic approach, we don't need any hiding. The best thing would be to have Mr. Novaković withdraw this before the vote, but if he wants to, let him vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19765	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19766	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19767	It's a replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19768	Short replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19769	Come on, try it. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19770	I mean, well, the man spoke very nicely, but let him do it in practice. I have to say here, the flyers that are glued to Tuzla, which I got in Bihac's mail, the death certificate of BiH, the fascist signs, all this is doing SDP. Here, he says, 'died after a long-standing robbery by... mourned citizens'... It's your SDP. [[You don't understand anything.]] This way Hitler didn't work in World War II, believe what SDP looks like to Tuzla. Did they, colleague Bećirović...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19771	You're not normal.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19772	Are you crazy? You speak that demagogue, you're worse than a fascist, sick, typical example.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19773	Replica, the esteemed representative of Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19774	Here I had to, uh...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19775	Can we have some of our colleagues here?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19776	I had to get out of this room for a while, but I hear I did well, because my colleagues in the opposition say that their opposition colleague kept one political watch here. But what I heard about when he was graded, I'd write a missed theme, not enough, one. You see, here to hold one praise to Tito and to argue that he was received by the Roman Pope, as he says, as if there was another pope, according to counterpart Bećirović. You see Pope Ivan Pavao II.. He received a man who had executed, tried to assassinate him. So that doesn't say anything, it just speaks of the size, the size of the pope or the Roman pope who received such a criminal as Tito. And if he was an absoluteist and he was a man of the regime, that's all he says here, Bećirović said he was received by five US presidents. Imagine how long that regime lasted. That five of them were able to take him in. And that, Mr Bećirović, that Europe has condemned other totalitarian regimes, I also agree, and I will use it, I will not answer for the debate, I agree with my colleague Izetbegović, and in part with this Bešlagić. When my colleague Izetbegović told us what we have to talk about about this Council of Europe resolution, I also agree, and I would only suggest to my colleague Novaković to change the title, to write here that this is a 'Resolution on the condemnation of the communist regime in the SFRY'. So, the Council of Europe, whose member we are, has condemned all the communist regimes, and we will condemn those who concern us and who were in the country that was the predecessor of today's BiH. It's SFRY. Thank you very much. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19777	Thank you. The next one is distinguished representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19778	Mr. Chairman, today's session seems to me to be going completely into very casual, arbitrary accusations, so I'd say insults. I would not now return to those who have spoken such words, to be honored, but such discussions as we had, we could hear earlier in this house, not contribute to what we aim to create conditions for co-existence, to negotiate, to move forward, etc., etc. We're not going forward, we're going back. But if I didn't get into that same trap, I'd just stick to this resolution that's on the agenda and I wouldn't spread the agenda to everyone and everything that's in one way or another arbitrary on my mind, like some colleagues did. First of all, this resolution in this form is unacceptable to me because it is completely general. The title itself says 'Resolution on the condemnation of communist regimes', so to all who existed and who existed. This means that we condemn the anthem and now, etc., and the text is mainly about totalitarian communist regimes. So, all of a sudden, we have a title that applies to everything, and the text talks about other regimes and condemns totalitarian, totalitarian regimes. So this had to be defined what it was, what totalitarian regimes are and where they are. On the other hand, it is quite clear in the first sentence that it is geographically reduced to a specific location: totalitarian communist regimes that ruled in Central and Eastern Europe. I ask the question: Is this geographical notion the meaning of the former Yugoslavia, Albania, etc. So from that point of view, this is a completely, completely vague document. Here it is spoken and called... to be condemned because there was no rule of law and respect for human rights etc. I ask you: Do we, in the country in which we now live and in whose Parliament we sit, have the rule of law and respect for human rights? If we have in mind the fact that we, here we are sitting, raise our hands for, raise our hands for laws that are not the fruit of our work, but who came in the way they came, I am now not going much further and much more of these other things, where it seems to me that we do not have a lot of right to read a lesson about this issue, and at least in Europe we have the right to read a lesson on this issue. Furthermore, totalitarian communist regimes are still active in some countries. It would be good to say who they are now. Is this, here, the Chinese communist regime a totalitarian regime, etc., etc. Do we now have the right to call China a resolution like this? It is said that part of it was needed, the assembly believes its clear position in BiH and the international community. Which international community? Is the international community present here in BiH or elsewhere? So I'm only talking about what makes the text as a text completely unacceptable to me, that it's too general and casual. What we would have the right to talk about, is, here, the communist regime that was in BiH, I wouldn't even go beyond BiH, and I think it was the same as there. But from that part, there is a possibility that certain parts of which can be discussed should be singled out. Is the Resolution of Informbiro, what did she mean, are we going to condemn it? Did anyone mention UDB? You know that this institution has taken from our peasants and sent to Albania to survive, left here 72 hungry to put an end to hunger and so forth. What did that mean? Or what it meant to take away the land in '45. The year we're not talking about coming back to those from whom it's been taken away? So we would have had on a similar subject within ourselves to deal with as much as you want, one such resolution in that context, but that really speaks of very concrete things. To be clear, when it comes to communism in BiH and that period, look, he's been going through a phase that other democracies have been going through, and here I am, this is my personal opinion -- there was more democracy at the end of this communist regime than we have today, that we understand each other, except for these multiparty choices that have led us to where they are, but that's my personal opinion. What I meant to say was, I went back a little bit, so keep in mind that some, if you look at some other regimes, what they've been going through and what human rights have been to people of different colors, different races, and in these democracies we swear today. So you can't take one big historical period and then condemn the regimes. It is necessary to take a partial look at the things that have been given, and to commit themselves to that period and to specific things and specific questions that deserve to be condemned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19779	I thank you, too. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Replica, the esteemed representative Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19780	For a stenogram to remain this message Mr. Zorić sent in his discussion, and he literally said Tito was a criminal, and democracy is that man can say it freely. What are you gonna do, he thinks so! However, I would like to say that I believe that most in this House don't think so either. The man who created the movement of the unclassified, the man they spoke of, not all the key Western leaders, the man whose funeral of 150 UN states was attended by 130 statesmen at the highest level! That's not how you come to a criminal. The criminals – and this should be said very clearly in this parliament to Mr Zorić – Anto Pavelić, Maks Luburić, Džafer Kulenović, Hakija Hadžić and other leaders of the Ustasha movement who passed such racial laws in the first year of their term so that in the first year and second year hundreds of thousands of people, Srbin, Jevrej, Rom and anti-fascist Bošnjak, Hrvat, would pay for such politics. And if Tito has weak sides, and there are such, there is one great good thing – there was a great prize for fascists and criminals in these areas.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19781	...in the same way we don't think, but here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19782	I rarely use a replica twice, but now I have to. So, I'm not slow at all, I'm not slow about some criminals mentioned here by Mr. Bećirović, I'm still staying with Tito being a criminal. Among others, I will not go any further, he is responsible for the death of my two uncles. He could have prevented it, he didn't want to, he killed them and hundreds of thousands of others on the cross road after 9 May 1940. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19783	The replica was twice. Prodanović called for a discussion. Do you want to discuss it too?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19784	As a proposer.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19785	As a proposer, yes, it is. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19786	Mr. Chairman, although we must agree with one fact, which is when we discuss our near past, more than half of us, unfortunately, were adult, mature people at the time of communism in the former Yugoslavia. So, I think that there is more emotional than rational thinking here, and that is why I am not surprised by our emotional thinking, but rather surprised that a historian, such as the esteemed Bosanac Denis Bećirović, is constantly falling into a trap of defence of something, and he has nothing to do with it, he says. So, I believe that Honorable MP Momčilo Novaković has proposed a solid basis for our face-to-face with the recent past. We cannot claim that something was good if our emotions objectively – we are children of a single-party totalitarian regime. He, if we read serious, serious studies that had recently come out, let's just warn you about Endro Ejfevud which political ideology, published a brilliant book and analyzed the system, the third edition came out a few years ago, in our languages it was translated, he says that it was true that Yugoslav communism was some milder form. But basically there was a call, unfortunately, even what generated the tragic war conflicts at the premises of the former Yugoslavia. We can't get rid of that. No Niko is saying that the former Socialist Union in the former Yugoslavia needs to be talked about something bad. But there is no democratic regime in the one-party system. There's no such thing as anywhere in the world. We should not forget that, regardless of the positive shift. We can't even be amnested by this reality that, unfortunately, resulted in thousands of innocents in prisons. The children of some are in this House. We're not talking about social justice, what we've been through so far, but we have to say that it shouldn't happen anywhere. Also, we should not forget that unfortunately, the continuations of one-party totalitarian ideology have become some of the nationalist parties in the early collapse of communist countries. And it's part of a special story. So, in this whole situation where we are in this face-to-face with the past, my opinion is that our parliament at this moment does not have enough capacity, courage and courage to bring significant resolutions that would condemn not only this story but what we must first and foremost go towards reconciliation, what we need to disable the language of hate, language of impatience, language of national impatience, language of confiscation, that is, what narrows down the rights and freedoms of every citizen and every nation in this country. This is in a certain sense a problem that is particularly present in BiH. Certainly, it will be necessary to face a tragic past where we must condemn all crimes. We must condemn the death of anyone innocent in this country. We need to find a way to make it the same, because such tragic situations and such resolutions that would result after such resolutions should allow us... to face the past, 74 to disable any, any possibility, any repetition in the future. So that's the essential question. I'm in that sense, I'll say in BiH, we can talk as much as we want. No, Mr. Bećirović, the story of BiH's statehood speaks of communism. Peoples at all or states don't just come from decrees. We can't say, you know, now he brought this, let's not forget that the country's greatest leaders had a close friendship with the people in whose countries it is: what genocides and what horrors they've done! I'll mention, say, Haile Selassi. Millions of people starved, while the tyrant's horses ate sugar from gold vessels. That's reality, I should be asked where someone from the entity comes from and where the greatest religious head of a concession before or from one of the leaders. It's a completely relative term. So you know how many statesmen are significant the number of tyrants or dictators by name! I don't want to mention anyone's name, I appreciate what it was, but we didn't have the ability to control it. If you have one party, one intelligence service, one army, if you're talking about brotherhood and unity and eventually escalating it with the most terrifying nationalism, the result is tragic and such regimes cannot exist. In BiH, too, there were terrible exercises, leading the so-called. The law and equality of symmetric judgments, so once you find the Musliman you punish, the second time Serbian nationality, for the third time in Croatia. What did we do? It's objectively, we just put out the fire with apparent stories about the enemy of the people and then what happened happened. I wouldn't want to take any more of your time. My proposal is, with full respect for the motion of the motion for this resolution, so we need to follow what the European Parliament has done adapted to Bosnian Herzegovina's conditions. Unfortunately, I will say only that, that neither Slovenia nor Slovenia, I am convinced of this moment as the most developed and, I am sure, it is difficult to speak the most democratic country of the former Yugoslavia, has not passed a resolution on the condemnation of the communist regime. She hasn't brought it yet. But that doesn't mean we shouldn't be working on this. I believe that we should return this resolution to the competent Commission for Human Rights, which would draw up a document that would be acceptable to the majority of Parliament, and then adopted. I also urge the House of Representatives to make an earlier conclusion concerning a similar resolution, of what the international community is warning us to do, that the committee in charge try to do so. The greatest success in the BiH Parliament, in both houses of the BiH Parliament, would be to adopt at the same time three or four resolutions that would clearly say what the previous thing is. Then we would send a clear message of what we want. We shouldn't argue here if this is good, if it's not good. It's not good. The previous regime was, I must say right away: you cannot in individual terrorist facts, which the previous regime also supported, evaluate. We are interrupted in the development of democracy and the arrival of a single-party system. Just as if it were now generated here in BiH, the single-party system, it doesn't matter what we call it, it's known that its name would also end the development of democracy. So, I think that the committee in charge should seriously consider this with the proposing, to consider, I would not want this resolution, I think, not to be adopted, but to be made, that it be adapted to Bosnian Herzegovic conditions in the circumstances in which it is, to condemn what was its subject, too, but also to make these conclusions that Parliament has adopted earlier an attempt to translate into a resolution that would be acceptable in this Parliament. Thank you. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19787	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19788	I have most of the comments on this latest exhibition of Mr. Prodanović, within my three minutes, of course. But before that, as far as Blajburg is concerned, it would be good not to speak in mind, and at the very least to consult some of the latest work of professionals dealing with this topic, at least at the Institute of Contemporary History in Zagreb, and to look at the roles and British forces, American, Yugoslav, etc., who did what, how many criminals were there, how many innocents etc. So it's not a subject you can talk about within three minutes. However, I have reported this, Mr. Prodanović's claim. He says, "There's a problem call in that system." It's not like there's been a call of trouble in that system before, and that system, although it lived in the illusion that it solved the issue of nationalism, didn't solve it, obviously. It's very incorrect to say that we are, this thesis, saying, 'You are '45. Stop in the development of democracy." What democracies? Do we even know the circumstances of the '45s? There were two choices. On the one hand, one is the National Liberation Movement, on the other hand, the King, the army in the country, or the Equality Movement, and one of those two options was to come to power. That the one that didn't come in '45 came in. We'd have a condition: '29. They divided Bosnia into banners, broke its statehood and territorial integrity. In that Kingdom of SHS under the king, and we stopped it in '45, they are not as a people to recognize either Makedonac, Crnogorac, Bošnjak or many others. They wouldn't admit them safely after '45. with what attitudes they were. And the communists made a mistake here, because they're all one people in '45. They forgot, even though they didn't forget it in the key documents in the war, but they fixed it in the late '60s. A year. So, what we're talking about is that the development of democracy was interrupted in '45. Those were the circumstances. Not to mention the others who, in the most part, are fascist officers, they've made people look bad in crimes, etc. And it was a choice. And at that point, I must say from those relevant forces that could pull the country, it was probably and certainly the best choice at that moment. The fact that, Mr. Prodanović, for those 40 years in the one-party system, we agree, I do not justify it, there has also been a violation of human rights, etc., has happened, however, as I say in the last 100 years we have not had any state without mass violations of human rights, so this was no big exception either.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19789	Replica, the esteemed representative of Prodanović, since it is his, then the distinguished representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19790	I'd hate to take up time in replicas, but I'd like to do it one more time. The fundamental issue of democracy in every country is parliamentary multiparty democracy. The former SFRY, or the Federative People's Republic of Yugoslavia, was a single-party country, was the result of the thieves' interests that they did at the time, the democratic regulations were halted, and I am not talking about the 76 former Kingdom of Serbs, Hrvat, Slovenac, or the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, as democratic as it was in relation to democratic societies. But they have interrupted the processes of democratisation. Furthermore, in the former SFRY, or communist Yugoslavia, there was no market economy, there was state property, or social property, even worse, the worst variant, which significantly reduced the process of democracy's development. And when it comes to the right of all the nations of the former Yugoslavia in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia to their full autonomy and national personality, but objectively we are 60 years, these are all Eastern regimes, so unfortunately for our tragedy, we have been through the worst here. It's amazing that the great Soviet Union didn't fall apart by war conflicts. We've all paid a huge price in all of this. objectively, what's leading us? Now, all our efforts lead us again to a common great country that will be called the EU and one membership, a major military bloc called the NATO Pact. I didn't. I don't have any reason here right now. So, I'm not talking about it right now, but right now, I was in it, I was fascinated by what was, normally, because we existed in the closed system and when I first got out I couldn't believe where we lived. Now out of nearly 4,000 people in BiH, 3,000,000 never came out. It's only when they see when they open up, then they'll see how much this is part of democracy, but no doubt this is a democratic way of putting our attitudes out, which we couldn't at the time. There was one party, one party that delegated the candidate, and the exact model was known. It's not a democratic regime. You have to understand that it's not democratic, that he's had a terrible mistake. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19791	Honorable representative Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19792	Although I was... that I did not report to these communist dilemmas today and that I am not talking, but it is really impossible for my colleague Bećirović to speak, and that from this nonsense he had told me in such a short time, it is not known when it is worse or when it is in a replica or when he is in a discussion. And I don't know if you, Mr. Bećirović, notice that, I don't know, I don't know that you don't, but it doesn't matter, stupidity is worth the answer. That all your discussions today and in the previous period – do you notice how much it is, how much is the connotation of anti-Serb in that. You were still saying today, everything that was about Serbia, everything that was about the previous state, everything was about the crimes and everything else. I don't know if you feel it. Do you feel that, in the previous period? Someone mentioned it to me, a colleague of Prodanović, some period of democracy that was interrupted by the arrival of the communist system. And that was to show that period too, now is little time to tell you about the achievements of that state. Why Greece chose the second time, and it went the way it went. Now you want the goats and the money and you want to say it, and we had a great time, but someone there is third to blame for being poor and for being economically lagging behind. And in the part where it was a powerful economic state, when democratic processes were in these places and the world forces intervened to share the map as they divided, so it's not like this space had no democratic relations in 1800 and some in 1900 and then we know how they broke up. And that's another story now. But when someone mentioned that there were some valuable things, you tried to justify it, that they were servants of the fascist regime in Serbia. In the former Kingdom of Serbs, Hrvat and Slovenac there were things that were not good. But there was also a mass of things where people were high-ranking and raised certain standards for which Europe 77 was butchering at the time. And what was contentious to mention, to say that there were good things, that the world forces interfered, and after the map they divided as they divided. But according to you, no, and it was just the servants, I don't know what, who, I haven't heard a single sentence from you say positively. It's hard for you to say, I know, positive about Republika Srpska and I can see that you can't say a positive sentence in these two years, so it's hard for you to say something positive about the Serbian people. So at least in history, in the part where there were positive things, political parties of different nationalities that co-operated together and went to elections. '45. The election's stopped. Before the war, there were elections, some parties went out, so after the election, they agreed. And the fact is that that's when it was stopped, and we're back on that track today, but the fact is, that's when it was stopped. Why are you trying to devalue it now? I'm not even defending the period that was most ideal, so there were certain values that we remembered after 50 years. We remembered. We've gone some other way, so what now, we're looking for an excuse again who's to blame. Some countries have waited for us on this path, and the fact is, they have gone far. We had, perhaps, a question of whether of our own free will. It's the wrong choice and in that wrong choice anyone can find himself in some way.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19793	Dear Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19794	Dear President, colleagues, colleagues, MPs, I would like to remind you that the external trade deficit has been since we started... Since we started to sit down this morning, we've grown 30 million marks, and I suggest we do something for these citizens where we can't make popcorn out of them, and leave these topics to historians, let them determine the truth. They'll do it much better than we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19796	I thank you, too. Dear Representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19797	...I'll try to finish as fast as I can, then. You see, I think as a proposer I should give an answer, if nothing because clearly this resolution produced and some aspects that I really, really did when I proposed it, I didn't think it would produce. It was enough to note that this resolution is not going at all and that the conditions practically needed to be adapted to BiH. I repeat, the resolution, this resolution, I said with which, I added, was adopted in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and these remarks could go, meaning the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, meaning, because I had no ambition to describe the situation in BiH through this 78 resolution at the time of communism and socialism. So, no, this resolution doesn't have that ambition. I repeated what was given there. So, it's added, I think it's a sentence for us, that it's a good thing to add that part of the text, let's say in Article 11, which says that'separation of the power and freedom of the media, protection of private ownership and the development of civil society', which can be used. So, first of all, I put in something that I don't think is at this stage of development that is in most of the countries of the Council of Europe that have adopted this resolution without this member. So, it is not me's ambition to propose this resolution that I define the situation in BiH. Not today, not 50 years ago, not 150 years ago. Is she geographically missed, as counterpart Dokić says? So you see how long it was then geographically missed for the Špance who also voted for this resolution, or the Englez, Talijan, etc. So, not the purpose of this resolution, I repeat, was a description of the situation in BiH, but a conviction of totalitarian communist regimes. Be careful, the word regime itself cannot be viewed in a positive sense. So this is always seen in a negative sense, and here we talk about the negative aspects of the communist system, or the communist regime. Of course, this applies, my colleague Jovičić asked me, so it refers to the totalitarian communist regime. And I said that he could be a warning that in these areas no other totalitarian regime is created, and it doesn't have to be communist. So any one of them will probably have the same connotations as this one. As for, I would not repeat, so... somewhere, some remarks here, I only have to tell my colleague Bešlagić that the attitude (3) when it comes to some positive examples of the Communist parties, I would not say that it refers to the Socialist Party of Yugoslavia, rather than to the Communist Party of Spain and Italy which has made a significant contribution to the development of democracy. So, more like the two states. Of course, again, although there is a part of the Socialist Party, we are not talking about the same party. So we're talking about a communist, communist regime and a Socialist party that can't be identified, means it can't be identified in any way. Here, fellow Izetbegović, I could answer some of his remarks in different ways. I was never a member of the Communist Party, and I was a member of the '84 Socialist Party. Until '86. A year. So I was a member of the Socialist Party of Yugoslavia since '84. Until '86. [[Common discussion]] So I wasn't a member of the Communist Party. Could the SDS have talked about this now or not? Well, you see, the perception of SDS in the Federation is equal to the perception of the SDA in RS. Perhaps the perception of the SDA is even worse in RS, if it can be worse. The problem, well the truth, the truth, is different truths, Mr. Džaferović, that's what it's all about. So, please, I said that I could answer in different ways, I could have responded more harshly than this, I chose to say that we are looking at the SDA in RS, or the Serbian people, not us, probably, and here in the Federation, looking at the SDS. We have the moral right to write what we wrote because in our programme the fight against communism was '90. A year. So we have the moral right to condemn the communist regime. As far as I'm concerned, I don't mind, of course, I don't mind that we throw out three or four positions from this resolution and we get a European one, the one adopted at the European Parliament. Adopted - Unadopted, so this resolution? At least at this point, 79 would be important whether it will be adopted or not, because if adopted, it will find telegraphically that this resolution has been adopted. If she doesn't adopt, she'll be under debate for a long time. And that is why it might be more appropriate for me as a proponent for the variant not to adopt this resolution, so that we debate for a long time and that it lives through different debates in this House for a long time. And in the end, you see, mixing partisans, communists, we've mixed up here, anti-fascists, etc. of a simple condemnation of the communist totalitarian communist regime! Indeed, we have been able to get a lot of work into what is in itself saying that it is not possible to do a resolution that would, in fact, aim to describe the situation and our relations in BiH and to look at developments in BiH. I think whoever has that ambition, only then will get us into trouble here, into a much more, probably, bile debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19799	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19800	Go ahead. Replica, the esteemed representative Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19801	Well, I mean, you can, Mr. Novaković, try everything equal, which you don't, is you. However, it is not black and white alike and it is not the ones who defended and attacked equally. Those who have committed crimes and those who have refused to commit crimes are not equal. That's not what we're saying. That's how the whole world sees it. They wanted to ban '96. The SDS, they didn't want to ban the SDA, they wanted to ban the SDS. I'll just give you one detail. I've been passed by Professor Čampar from the Grbavica. I put him in my apartment. With a rheumatized woman, 70 years old, his hair grew to this point, he shouldn't have gone to the hairdresser's for five months on the hunchback. And before that, before he crossed over, he had to give his apartment to the RS. I'm 72 years old, and my wife is 80 years old, and she's a rheumatist, and she's our apartment! We're better off on the street! We better give it to the RS to strengthen it that way. So he can sign it voluntarily. And everything in that style. That's the kind of authority the SDS organized there on that part. All the non-Serbs were cleaned, all the Catholic churches, all the mosques were scrawny, Srebrenica and another hundred small Srebrenicas were made. You can't get away from that ever. It's a waste of time. One more thing, they ask us where the Srbin are in Sarajevo. The SDS insisted that Sarajevo be divided, so as to know what the Serbian part of Sarajevo is in the 21st century. The SDS organized, you understand, an army that killed 2,000 Srbin on this asphalt here, killed its people, expelled them with grenades and hunger and water shortages from this city. The SDS organized it. When it came... we invited Srbin to stay on that Ilidža and in that Vogošće, to stay people. We begged them to stay. The SDS has arranged for the burning of apartments to happen to remain in Ali's state and then today they ask us where Srbin are in Sarajevo. That's the truth, Mr. Novaković, what we can do. You can say whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19802	Replica, the esteemed representative Novaković. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19803	I don't know what I'd say to Bakir right now so he realizes he's read very little about BiH except what he read about BiH and the developments in BiH by '95. A year. Probably, if he read a few things, it'd be a lot clearer to him. Not because of me, not because of the SDS, but because of him. I could name thousands of examples here right now, I guess it's not the SDS '94. '93 was active in Sarajevo. I don't think he was in Sarajevo at the time, so I could now quote a lot of testimonies then, to bring them here, books to bring you, Mr. Izetbegović, to read a little about what happened in Sarajevo. I hope you won't accuse the SDS of doing this in Sarajevo at the time. And I could do a lot of things. I really have no intention, I just said what perceptions are in RS. If that were true, we wouldn't all want to form some truth commission, so we can determine the truth. It's more true, Mr. Izetbegović, much more than you want to hear. I understand you absolutely. Look out, this one suits you. You don't even want to take someone else, because you'd be confused with already well-congested attitudes. But that's not what I was talking about. I wasn't talking about the position of the SDA according to this resolution, or moral and immoral law. And believe that you supported her, I would support her, because I would think that you have the moral right to propose this resolution because you were against communism too. And here, when you suggest it in another form, I now publicly say that I will support it, although the perception of the SDA is quite different from the one you think it is, but here I will support it. We're not running away from anything. RS President Dragan Čavić and then the president of the SDS made his position clear and our position on Srebrenica and our relationship with Srebrenica. So we didn't run away from it, but we made it clear. I guess I don't have to remind you, you shouldn't have read it already, you could have seen it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19804	Replica, the distinguished representative of Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19805	Well, I really expected it to stop at the content, or the meaning of the proposer in this resolution, what at least I thought was the point. However, it has obviously gone into some other things and it is very symptomatic that every time you search for hair in an egg and that, when something comes from one side, at any cost, the content of what you are looking for in some way is directed in another direction, so here, Mr. Izetbegović, if everything you have said is that you have done RS or SDS and probably Srbin are grateful for your democratic relationship. And indeed, all those who fled from terror are grateful and spoke very nicely about what your answer to what was done on the other hand was. You, if I were to talk about the Serbian position now, it would probably be difficult to agree here, but let's just say, in Kladusa, in Cazin, in Bihac, what you've done to each other beastlylyly is not a question of Serbian. So it's not all clear on either side, so we can just walk in and keep our pucks on each other like this. Pictures from Bihaq where the Bošnjak drags the Bošnjak the way he dragged him before that angry mass, are not commendable. And they're not exactly kept lessons in terms of who you think they are. Everything here wasn't ideal and great and we all know it and we know where it's going. And it's also known that it's been accepted that it's all settled there until the last but, at the same time, no one will accept that there's only one truth there and that you, you'll have the right to it, and you'll probably insist on it, but the fact that these are democratic times, that these are also facts that we're talking about, confessing everything that's happened and we've admitted it in the way that we should have done it, and through institutions and the acceptance of institutions, we've accepted that this is how it is, but at the same time, this kind of flat-rate assessment, with respect to what I've said, where you can't deny it and you can't avoid it, and you can't explain anything about why it happened if everything was ideal on that side. Here, let's accept that all of this is the blackest and that some of them deserve it, but why did this happen if you had democratic intentions?? And I would remind you, if you had sat down first, all of what you thought about the SDS and what you thought about the Serbian people, I would remind you that you had sat with them first, I would remind you that they had visited the world of images when the then president of the SDA and the president of the SDS sat down and shared power and arranged everything else. I mean, you're carrying part of the responsibility for that because you started that story. The fact that she came out the way she came out, you made her come out to be a narcissist.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19806	Honorable representative Jovičić, replica. Just take it easy in a row.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19807	This is us, this is BiH, this is our truth, this is our every point of the agenda, these are our laws, and we're here to make things better. I welcome the friendly relationship between fellow Members, but they are not sincere. This isn't gonna get us anywhere. Mr. Izetbegović, from your corner, you're right. You're not from my corner. Even if the SDS had invited everyone out of Sarajevo, what would these people have done if they had stayed, when you are a handful of Srbin here in Sarajevo today, and no single Srbin is in any position. A handful left. What do you think everybody else is? What would they get from your power cake here in Sarajevo? Even if the SDS called, here, to come out. Mr. Izetbegović, I really appreciate you. Let's open a thematic session and just five days to discuss this, and I'm always at every point in the war crimes prosecutor's office pleading to clear this up. We'll make the situation better and we'll make some laws easy, but when this comes up, then we'll all remember, and then we'll say, we're Bošnjak first, first we're Srbin, first we're Hrvat, some of us are and others, and then we'll say this is a multi-ethnic environment that, well, something works. It's not like that. We're not being honest. I don't mean you. I appreciate what you're saying. And that's what I say, but that's from your point of view. Mr. Izetbegović, it is true that individuals from my people committed terrible crimes. Right, individuals, it's not any people's fault. But it is true that individuals of your people committed terrible crimes. That's why I'm feeling the consequences here today. That's why there aren't many of my whisperers. And, well, I survived. I don't invoice it for you, I don't invoice it, God Bog, the Bosniak people, but criminals in all the nations who have terrorized people. For me, the camper is sacred, no matter what nation he has, Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat, saint. I appreciate the word "freedom" the most today. Health is the most common thing for a man, but what good is my health if I'm not free? You people do not know what the word is: freedom. So please, not at every point, and when this resolution is, inserting this past is unfortunate for us. Let's make a deal as people. Here I suggest you pick the site where it was the most, where you want it. The first I will go with you to mark it and together set up a wedding, Mr. Izetbegović, you and I. Come on, give me some courage, come to Bratunac. So that's where we build tolerance, that's where we build trust. Let the people see us together. We can't do it together, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't. And we won't stand out, as always some story we're separatists. Let's build together. You, Mr. Izetbegović, I am not your rank, I am not even party vice president, I am not even party, here I am nothing, but the people have some, some reputation 82 I have with the people, and one Hrvat, they choose their site, you choose, I choose, and the three of us go there and lay a crown. The people see us together and they say, "Bravo, here's what they're doing!" But not like this, not productive, believe me. You just irritate us, and we won't irritate you, we'll accept what you say. But it wasn't all that. Where was I 44 months – 1334 days? It's eternity. So let's look at it all, and I'm not important, all nations matter. What do you want more from me if I tell you - I condemn every single person from my own people who committed a crime against anyone, everyone. But I also condemn an individual of the Bosniak people, of the order of the Croatian people, of the order of any nation in the world. And the one who kills the children in Iraq. I judge everything. What do you want more, Mr. Izetbegović, here, please as a man, don't do this in every spot, please. We're not going anywhere forward, believe me. We're talking about this resolution. We don't even have to accept it. What's it got to do with '95, '93, '94? in Sarajevo with this resolution? Don't please, as a man please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19808	Replica, the esteemed representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19809	I'll be brief. I'm sorry when we get back to these topics. You should look forward, not look back. Unfortunately, it pulls in, it's not a third replica, it's a second, it's not the same to have two stains on your cheek and two thousand stains on your cheek, you know. When you have two stains, you can walk somehow. When you have two thousand, your black cheek. I'm the only one who doesn't say that spray is the people of black cheeks. I never accuse Srbin as a people. I have a friend of very many Srbin, my godfather is a Srbin, you know. I have nothing against Srbin. But you, too. Our army was looking to stop the crimes, the other one systematically did them, and that's how she systematically encouraged them. And another thing, you ask why this is all, what it's all about. You know, let's get this over with sometime. Let some commissions deal with it, that we are dealing with Bosnia's European future, but some governments there these days want to ask, when they cleaned up the non-Serb part of the territory, those who remained, eh, are they for that part to break away from BiH. And they're opening that wound again. And then Izetbegović blames it on something, so it's my fault. Tomorrow will be how I call for war in BiH. Because they cleaned out half of BiH's non-Serbs and now those who stayed there want to ask, they have their human right democratically to decide on the future, after the others have been killed and expelled. And don't do that, so you won't provoke me or me to talk or to let things like this happen. That's what I'm asking, if you ask me what I'm looking for. Don't start again.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19810	Dear Representative Okolić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19811	I'm going to rephrase very briefly, but before I do, I'm going to say that really this debate of ours, from this declaration that was meant to be aimed at one decadent goal, went to the point where this doesn't go towards a good reconciliation and that we look a lot at mirrors, instead of looking at the driver's license, and that the institutions that are responsible for everything that happened in the past are negatively condemned and prosecuted, etc. But here's where I'm going to replicate Mr. Izetbegović. And this may be lucky that there is no direct TV transmission, so those people you claim to have begged them to stay in Sarajevo and may not hear, otherwise they would certainly have responded. I know a lot of people, and I've asked a lot of 83 people why you left at the time of the signing and after that, etc. So when he told me the reason he left, I'm telling you that I wouldn't stay here, and maybe you wouldn't. And therefore, it is not correct now to abuse these people and to claim that you begged them to stay and not provide them with the basic safety of life.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19812	I hope it's gone. He has a respected representative, Sadik Ahmetović, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19813	Nothing, here, I think, by pushing different resolutions, we're only making the situation complicated for nothing, and we're not prepared to vote the '95 genocide verdict. A year. So this parliament is not ready. So, what we know, what we saw on television, what we all know was, if we're honest with ourselves, according to the future of BiH, according to everything that's true, let's go chronologically from going. Here's the vote for all the next resolutions, but let's vote for this one. So that resolution was here in parliament some years ago, and it wasn't ready to vote. Where is this relationship to the victim? I don't think there's any point in having this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19814	Reputed Representative Remzi Kadrić reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19815	I wouldn't want anyone to think of this as perhaps some lawyer, Bakir Izetbegović, but I just want to, at least that's how I understood that when he spoke about the SDS, he was talking about SDS decisions, SDS decisions, SDS authorities, the SDS General Board and other SDS authorities during the period when Radovan Karadžić was headed by the SDS. That part, they also have documents on it, decisions by the SDS before the war in the course of the war, etc. So, during the period when he led and led the party, Radovan Karadžić and, of course, it is known how the SDS then decided. This, about Dragan Čavić, these things are quite familiar. That's where the SDS made it, but I want to say that, that's what it is, I think that's what Bakir Izetbegović was talking about. (?) [[no microphone turned on]] And he was the SDS who made decisions on his organs. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19817	I thank you all. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19818	You will receive documents where SDS, before the war, made decisions, what decisions he made, what Bakir...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19819	I thank you all for allowing very constructive discussions to move so quickly forward and to be as close to making important decisions for the citizens of BiH as you all swear, every day, and today you have sworn a lot. But here's democracy, so let's move on. Since I'm no longer registered, I'm now concluding a debate on this agenda point. We're going to the 23rd item of the agenda, Ad. 23. Proposal for the conclusion of Mr Rifat Dolić's representative on the development and submission of the BiH Council's information on state and status of property of the state, businesses and citizens of BiH in the countries that have been decomposed by the former SFRY, with a plan for activities on its protection and takeover by legal owners I remind you that the distinguished representative Rifat Dolić at the 30th session submitted a request for this item to be placed on the agenda. At that time, his proposal did not win the entity's majority, so there was an agreement in the College as the Committee. After no agreement was reached in the College, Dolic was adopted at the 31st session of the proposal for a conclusion. The following procedure included the proposal of MP Dolić in this session. You've been given a proposal for a conclusion by a representative with an explanation. According to his proposal, the proposal for a conclusion should read: - It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and submit within 30 days for the debate at the House of Representatives 'Information on State and State of Property, BiH firms and citizens in the countries that have been decommissioned by the former SFRY, with a plan for activities on its protection and takeover by legal owners. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19821	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, appreciating time I will be very brief, no more than two minutes. In this request, so to include this item on the agenda, I gave a decent explanation why I consider it necessary and justified, I gave text 85 of the proposal for a conclusion that Mr. Chairman has just read. As you get this material, I'll, let me just point out in a few sentences what's most important. I believe that this is the least this parliament can do for property, so I think this is the least this parliament can do for state, business and citizens of BiH in the countries of ex-Yugoslavia, which has been the subject of robbery and kidnapping for more than 15 years. The example of Agrokomerac-Comer's assets and his shareholders served me only as concrete, which I know best. But it's not just Agrokomerac's assets, it's huge assets and other BiH state firms and citizens that are measured by the value of hundreds of millions of KMs. In the meantime, I have also heard from a number of other companies and individuals and have confirmed the cry for action and to save what else can be saved. I'm not clear on two things. The BiH state returned property to everyone else, in accordance with the Treaty on Succession, and BiH's property in those countries has long been the subject of robbery and kidnapping, and institutional confiscation frameworks are being sought for what remains. Secondly, we are so committed to obtaining loans abroad, looking for fresh capital for investments, and looking for charity, and we are so indignant to protect our assets and what is indisputable to this state, its companies and its citizens. I think that one such information would, firstly, give a more realistic picture of the status and state of this BiH property in the countries of ex Yugoslavia and, secondly, I think it would open the Pandora's box on this issue and encourage activities to protect what remains of this property and what remains to be saved. I don't think there's any reason not to adopt this conclusion because we don't have the right to close our eyes to the kidnapping of BiH's assets abroad, and to be gallant in returning property to all others, who were in BiH. For this reason, I ask for the support and adoption of this conclusion because it is a minimum that this home can do on the path of protection and return of property belonging to the state of BiH, its companies and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19822	I thank the honourable representative, Dolić. I don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to 24th Point, Ad. 24. Giving consent to ratification: (a) The Financial Cooperation Programme between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Ministry of Industry, Tourism and Trade of the Kingdom of Spain, (b) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Macedonia on Cooperation in the Protection of Natural and Other Traditions, (c) the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Canada – the Canadian Project for Youth and Health in the Balkans, 86 (e) the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Norway on the financing of reconstruction and restoration of the façade of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly building. The materials for this point you got in the first part of the session. You've been given the opinion of the relevant Foreign Affairs Committee. On these materials for all of these acts, the Committee gave a positive opinion and proposed to the House to give consent to their ratification. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. In college, we agreed to take a break until 6:30. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19827	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19828	Here you are, the esteemed representative of Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19829	Dear Chairman, since there is no colleague Rajilić, on behalf of the SNSD Club, I am withdrawing the proposal for this conclusion. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19830	So, here's the proposal for a conclusion of Honorable Representative Rajilić's been withdrawn. [[Common discussion]] We move to a statement on the sixth item of the draft law on additions to the Law on Administrative Disputes (second reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 28 votes "yes", without "against" and two "abstained", I find that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Administrative Disputes has been adopted. We move to a statement on the seventh item of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Features of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer Beriz Belkić (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 29 votes "yes", three "against", one "abstained", I find that this bill has also been adopted. 89 We move to a statement on the eighth item of the agenda of the draft law on the termination of the Law on bottled drinking waters of BiH (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 30 votes "yes", without "against", two "abstained", I conclude that the draft law on the termination of the Law on bottled drinking waters of BiH has been adopted. We move to a statement on the ninth item of the agenda of the Public Roads Bill (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 21 votes "yes", three "against", nine "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. We don't agree. You will be informed of the results of the alignment. We move to the 10th point of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Taxes, with the Opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget – Proposer Momčilo Novaković. I remind you here, we have a negative opinion from the Commission. We are voting on the Commission's opinion. If the opinion of the Commission is adopted, the proposal for a law has been rejected, if it is not adopted, the Commission shall be given guidelines and a deadline for the submission of a new opinion. Please prepare to make a statement on the Commission's opinion. Vote now! With 20 votes "yes", 12 "against", one "abstained" and a sufficient entity majority, I find that the Commission's opinion has been adopted, which means the bill has been rejected. We move to a statement on the 11th item of the agenda Report of the Joint Commission on the text of the Fiscal Council Act of BiH. We're voting on the Joint Committee's report. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 23 votes "yes", three "against", seven "abstained", enough entity majority, I conclude that the Joint Commission's report on the text of the BiH Fiscal Council Law has been adopted. We move to the 12th item of the agenda Annual Information and Security Policy Platform – the applicant of the BiH Presidency. (voting on a semi-annual platform, with a report from the Commission) Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! With 27 votes "yes", without "against", six "abstained" and a sufficient entity majority, I find that the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform of BiH has been accepted. 90 We move to a statement on the 13th agenda of the Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2007. The report is received to the knowledge, if we accept it, we receive knowledge. Please prepare to plead. Vote now! With 22 votes "yes", three "against", eight "abstained", without a sufficient entity majority, we do not have an entity majority. The results of the merger, you will be notified. Within this point, the conclusions were proposed by representatives of Snježana Rajilić on behalf of the SNSD Club, Rifat Dolić, Husein Nanić and Momčilo Novaković. The proposal is to postpone the statement of conclusions until we have a report on the fate of this. We move to a statement on the 14th point of the report on the work and financial operations of the Public Business News-Publishing Organisation "The Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina" for 2007. The SNSD club submitted its proposal for a conclusion at three points. I suggest that the conclusions of the SNSD Club be stated in the package. Here, I'll read one. It is the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers to make a proposal for a law on "The Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina" and to deliver it to the parliamentary procedure within 60 days, as well as to urgently resolve the issue of legal status of the Public Business Newspaper organisation "The Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina". 2. It is the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare a comprehensive analysis of the report on the financial operations of the Public Business of the News and Issues Organisation "The Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina" for 2007 as well as the proposed conclusion of the House of Representatives and to adopt a proposal for comprehensive measures to address the problem in this institution and to deliver it to the House of Representatives within six days. 3. The management of the "Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina" is tasked with bringing the editorial policy into line with the requirements of the users, making such a significant note more functional. These are the proposals for three conclusions of the SNSD Club and we are coming forward in the package on the proposal for conclusions. Please prepare. Vote now! With 13 votes "yes", 10 "against", 10 "abstained", an insufficient entity majority, a consensus. The following are the conclusions of the esteemed representative Momčilo Novaković, who reads 91 - The Council of Ministers is obliged to deliver a written opinion on these reports to the Parliamentary Assembly. - A statement on the 2007 report on the work and financial operations of the Public Business News and Issues Organisation "The Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina" is postponed until management and management of companies, and the Council of Ministers delivers views according to remarks given in the debate at the House of Representatives. The Proposer insists individually. We're going individually. The first conclusion is our first statement, the honourable representative of Novaković. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 16 votes "yes", 15 "against", two "abstained", an insufficient entity majority, and a proposal for a conclusion is going to agree. The second conclusion of the esteemed representative Novaković. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 13 votes "yes", 17 "against", there is no general majority. I find that the second conclusion is not accepted. As part of this point, Remzija Kadrić's representative submitted the amandman to the Opinion on the Commission's Report, which reads first and foremost, the words - the legal status of "the Official Journal of BiH" - are being deleted. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 19 votes "yes", seven "against", six "abstained", insufficient entity majority, I agree that this amendment is going to agree. We're going to vote on the Committee's report with conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19832	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19833	We can if these are accepted, then they become an integral part. But we can also postpone when there's a statement on this, when we have this, the results on the compliance. So he can do both. So we can postpone until we have the statement results for all of this, so we're going to have the whole one. We move to a statement on the 15th point: Appointing the Ombudsman to the Ombudsman Institution for Human Rights of BiH (Proposed list of the Ad hoc committee to appoint three ombudsmans to the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution). So we move to 15th point: 92 Appointing the Ombudsman to the Ombudsman Institution for Human Rights of BiH (proposed list of the Ad hoc committee for the appointment of the Ombudsman in the Human Rights Institution of BiH). We have had several proposals in this debate today, so we will first make a statement on these proposals and I will also inform you of what is agreed before the Continuing of this session at the Enlarged College. So the proposal was to put the Ad hoc committee's proposal to make the statement through a secret vote and put it first. Stand by. Vote now! With 13 votes "yes", 19 "against", one "abstained", I find this proposal not accepted. The second proposal was that, unlike the one proposed by the Committee here, it means that the vote is being voted, that a single list of candidates is being drawn up according to the number of points and that a statement is being made in that order. So I'm going to put that proposal to the vote. If this proposal is not accepted, the statement will be made according to the Commission Report, by groups, so to speak, in order again as the Committee has proposed here, from every nation. Here, first they will go from the order of the Serb people, from the order of Croatia, from the order of Bosniaks and then from the order of others. If this proposal is accepted to be a single list, we have a single list prepared by the number of points, how much of the candidate has been given according to the report of the Commission. I hope the proposal is clear. So we are saying that the proposal to form a single list according to the number of points received and that the statement is done in order of the number of points that the candidate received from the highest to the lowest, regardless of nationality, to be clear. Is it understood proposal? So we're pleading on that proposal. Vote now" With 14 votes "yes", 18 "against", one "abstained", I find this proposal not accepted. And we're moving on to a plea according to the Commission's proposal. First, we declare the candidates of the Serbian people. And then, first we declare Mrs. Rada Kafedžić. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 14 galls "for", 12 "against", six "abstained", with an insufficient entity majority, and now we have a problem. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19834	There's no coincidence here. Shall we: we vote on everyone and whoever gets the most votes, around him may be agreed or disagreed. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-14-0.u19835	I'm just going to ask you not to take your word for it before I give it to you, that's the first thing. And secondly, I respect all of you and I have here next to me a respected secretary of the House who, when it comes to procedures, listen more than you think about procedures. With all due respect, if you don't decide otherwise. So, according to the interpretation I have from the Secretary of the Committee, since the law says three ombudsmen are being elected at the same time, we can postpone a statement on all candidates to reach agreement on this candidate, whether or not there is an entity majority. So if we had all three members of the College, seven to go with the votes against, we would, if we didn't get the consent. But that's the view of the Secretary of the Commission. I would not like to make this choice any way of saying – she said, so to speak, to make interpretations even more complicated than it is complex. So, here, so I think at this point, that's the interpretation I got from the Secretary of the House, this point stops with a statement to an agreement in the College. There's another proposal, so there's another proposal to take a short break, so we take a short break, so whatever we agree, and we're going to have to vote it out so that one of them doesn't make decisions. A brief break, an extended college, and to agree on how to overcome this issue. [[Common discussion]] I'd like a 15-minute break. Those who aren't members of the Expansive College that don't differ, but I really wish we had a clean state, not to be... [[PAUZA]]
