ParlaMint-BA_2008-03-20-1.u16931	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 25th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is the third day of the session. I know you're all tired and that the believers of the Catholic religion expect us to end this session at a reasonable time today. I agree that the session is attended by 41 MPs. Dear Ambassador Erić is justifiably absent. This session shall be held in accordance with Rule 62(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, under which the agenda may also be proposed during the meeting. You all know the circumstances under which we hold this session. I don't think there's much to explain this situation. The proposed agenda has been delivered to you on the bench. So, I'd like to warn you about a few more things. We at the College are unanimous to vote on any report from our committee, which you got on the bench, is the same result. In case we accept our commission's report, the law is down. In case we refuse our commission's report, a legislative procedure has been suspended. So no matter how we baptize him, he's gone. And therefore, given that we have already received the procedure and in printing is the request of the MPs to hold the next session, which would only be one item of the agenda, these same laws, according to the 127 business procedure, I expect there to be no big debate about this report, because there is nothing concrete we can do. And that's why I invite you all to keep in mind and consider what I said in advance about religious holidays. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Here you go. If there are no reports, I'll conclude the hearing and find out that 1. Proposal for a law on the independent supervisory bodies of the BiH police structure, with the Joint Commission on Defence and Security report; 2. Proposal for a Law on the Directorate for the Coordination of Police Authorities and Agencys for Supporting BiH Police Structure, with the Joint Commission's Report on Defence and Security 2 I am opening a debate that he would suggest we unite, given that the points are identical, that we have already discussed this in the same way. If anyone wants to make a statement, please. If not, I'm closing the argument. I'd like to make a statement on the Joint Defence and Security Commission's report. As you've seen, so the report is negative. We vote in accordance with Rule 112 of the Rules of Procedure. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 18, "against" 22, one "abstained". The report didn't get the required majority. So the law is down. We're voting on point two. Report by the Joint Commission on Defence and Security within the meaning of the Proposal for a Law on the Coordination of Police Authorities. The same way we vote. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 18, "against" 22, "abstained" one. He didn't get the report required by the general majority. So, he should return to the Commission, but the business opportunities are exhausted and we no longer have a legislative opportunity to do so. We're finishing this session. I'll take a break by 3:30 when you get a draft agenda for the next session. The seat's over at 3:00.
