ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19059	Representatives, honored guests, please take your seats to begin our work. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 31st session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, at our session, apart from the representatives, our regular guests were invited: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of the OHR, the OSCE and other international organisations in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our home and representatives of certain NGOs. At the session, a representative of the Central Election Commission of BiH was also invited to discuss their 2007 Work Report. I welcome all present representatives and guests. I also welcome the representatives of the media and I would like to begin by informing you that we have informed the directors of the Public TV Service in due time this time to organise a direct TV broadcast session. According to service information, I find that 33 MPs are present at the session. The absence from the session was justified by representatives Beriz Belkić, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Sadik Bahtić, Slavko Jovičić and Zlatko Lagumdžija, and a brief delay was announced by distinguished representative Vinko Zorić. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move on to the agenda proposal, I would like to say a few appropriate words. Although I am convinced... that everyone has been keeping an eye on the events in Luxembourg this 16th month, I would like here at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives with great satisfaction to say that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between BiH and the EU was signed in Luxembourg on that day. On this occasion, also with great satisfaction, I would like to stress that this high house has made a major contribution to meeting the conditions for signing this for BiH a very important agreement. With the signing of the Stabilisation Agreement, in addition to the benefits it will immediately deliver, BiH is a guaranteed place in a united Europe, but of course follows in the coming years to meet all the conditions and standards that are necessary to meet our 2 countries and officially become an EU member. Therefore, the current satisfaction of this BiH achievement should be extended by intensive work on our commitments in order to meet all the requirements for EU membership during the period set by the Stabilisation Agreement. I sincerely hope that there will be no more significant obstacles to this and that we will reach that desired goal. Also, I would like to remind you, distinguished MPs and MPs, that as soon as the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is officially delivered, the College of the House will convene a session following a hasty procedure to give prior consent to its ratification. We're moving on to the agenda now. In the invitation to the session, you received a draft agenda for this session. We included those points in the agenda that we did not implement at the 30th session as well as all points that met the business conditions for consideration. We have also indicated this time in the invitation the possibility of including in the agenda and other materials for which the conditions for consideration may be obtained today. I'm getting circumstances, so we have a change of agenda. From the proposed agenda, item 6: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Value Added Tax Act – Proposer: Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković for the reason that the relevant Budget Committee has requested an extension of the deadline for submitting opinions on principles and principles. The agenda is complemented by the following points. The minutes of the 30th session are also included in point 1. I remind you, for objective reasons, the record couldn't be included when we convened the session because objectively it couldn't complete the transcript session so quickly because on June 4th we had an extension of both the 29th and 30th sessions of the House. At the 14th place of the agenda, the point was added: Changes in the membership of the committees of the House and the joint committees of both homes – promoters: several club representatives. Here, these are the changes made in the proposed agenda. You have received a revised and updated draft agenda on the benches. I'll just have one more explanation. In the accompanying act, through which you were presented Report Ad hoc of the Ombudsman's election committee, it was stressed that the election of the Ombudsman was also expected at today's meeting of this house, so yesterday at the Extended College we decided that we should leave, here, more time for the MPs to study the Commission's report and that this report will be included in the first next session of this House. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19061	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that another item of the agenda be included in today's agenda: drawing conclusions on resolving the issue of de-certified police officers. So, the debate, I believe, would not be extensive. As part of that, I would suggest a conclusion that MPs would get on their benches. About, so I was with the representatives yesterday... The OHR and its only requirement is to hold a special session of the Council of Ministers and to discuss their problem and the conclusion would go that way in this House. Thank you very much. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19062	I thank the honourable representative. Any other suggestions? Dear Representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19063	Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected media representatives, guests, as we all know, BiH signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement two days ago, and this is certainly good information for all BiH citizens. However, I think that as far as the agreement needs to be seriously addressed today and that all those obstacles that BiH is facing are being removed on the way to full membership in the EU. So I suggest we put in a new agenda today. So, on the basis of Article 65(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I submit the following amendment to the agenda of the 31st session of the House of Representatives, with the following point, which would read: Discussing the letter of the High Representative and EU Special Representative to BiH Mr Miroslav Lajčak on the harmfulness of nationalist and anti-state policy in BiH's EU integration process. In addition to this proposal to include the mentioned item in the agenda, I am also delivering the text to the High Representative and the EU Special Representative as a discussion material on this agenda item. Given the importance of this issue for the future of BiH, as well as the seriousness of the findings and facts cited in the letter, I propose that this be one of the first four points of the agenda of the 31st session of the BiH Parliamentary House. I would like to remind you that the High Representative and EU Special Representative has once again drawn attention to the objectlessness and harmfulness of nationalistic and anti-state rhetoric, and thus neglecting BiH's European path. European integration must be above the day-to-day policy, and as the High Representative himself says very often, we are hearing statements that raise tensions in BiH. The High Representative himself in this letter and the EU Special Representative reiterates that BiH is internationally recognised, unquestionable, and expects BiH authorities to actively engage in the realisation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I therefore believe that today we would send a positive message to both the EU and the BiH citizens to open this issue, to come to some conclusions through the debate that will define both the BiH Parliament and all parliamentary political entities to be committed, first and foremost, to the realization of the agreement that BiH signed two days ago. So, I'm delivering a proposal and delivering material to discuss this agenda point, with the expectation that we'll have the strength to put this on the agenda today and come to the right conclusions, all with the objective of realising, I repeat, the agreement mentioned. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19064	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19065	I think this initiative by Mr Bećirović can fit into item 12. There's no need to supplement the agenda. Here, MP SDA Mr. Nanić has already suggested a similar thing. Therefore, anything you intended to say can be expressed within that point, and then suggest a conclusion in terms of how you said it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19066	Thank you. Dear Representative Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19067	I think what Mr. Izetbegović was talking about and what I was saying wasn't the same thing. We have this point, that is, this initiative, which is under regular number 12. We are certainly on the agenda today, and it refers to other things. This is about creating a political atmosphere in BiH without which it is impossible to realise and implement a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and what therefore the High Representative and EU Special Representative are telling us about, so we do not connect these two things. However, it is about different topics, although both are ultimately talking about our path to the EU.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19068	Thank you. The esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19069	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, apparently the EU's story in this House will certainly be in the next period and much more often than it has been before. However, in order to avoid any hollow rhetoric, demagogy and various other proposals that are not in the interest of a faster adjustment of BiH on the way to the EU, it seems to me that these small topics should be united when we discuss and here when it comes to the order of ratification of the Agreement, but also to extend these topics to the general atmosphere in BiH towards entering the EU, where the opposition's role in BiH's EU accession would be included, their contribution to this so far, their contribution in the coming period, so that, in my opinion, not by running away from any story, especially by not running away from the anti-dejton story that is coming to BiH from all sides, I want to say that it is not good to deal with individual segments and general stories in the manner in which this is proposed. So I think this initiative is segmented, under-expanded, and there will be time to touch that part of this total story when these topics come to the agenda. Thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19070	Thank you. Is there more? Dear Representative Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19071	Well, I would first like to remind myself that the mandate of the High Representative in BiH exists on the basis of the Dayton Peace Agreement, and also mentions the Bosnian powers of the High Representative and now the EU Special Representative. And I'm not for everything the High Representative points out to to be characterized in a way that's demagogy or hollow story. The High Representative in BiH, from time to time, is calling on certain important issues for the country, in line with its mandate, is certain findings and facts. In this case, it also announced on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and on the latest developments in BiH. I think the facts and findings that the High Representative presented and in this letter are serious and that they represent a good basis for all of us to talk about this topic and to come to certain conclusions. I think the letter of the High Representative is also going in a positive direction because we are called upon, without distinction to which political party we belong, position or opposition, that when it comes to the European path of BiH, we should be able to be as unique as possible, in order for this country to move forward and get to its strategic goal as quickly as possible, which is full EU membership. I believe that we all believe in this goal in the BiH Parliament and there is no reason why we should not discuss this on the basis of what the High Representative in BiH wrote and, I remind you, with the aim of creating a better political atmosphere in which both the position and the opposition will take part, in order for this country to move forward. So here is another appeal to put the letter of the High Representative on the agenda today, to discuss it and give a new impulse to speed up the realisation of what is in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Of course, we can make everything a problem, even from this letter to the High Representative, etc. but I think that here we should show a little more all together political wisdom and maturity that we really send one positive message, a message of a much more positive political atmosphere in BiH and towards the EU and towards the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19072	Thank you. I'm just asking you to deliver this proposal. Okay, thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation: the esteemed second Vice-President Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19073	Since my words are quoted as demagogue and hollow stories, and you add that I said that's what the High Representative said, it's an incorrect allegation. I said that this initiative coming from the SDP MPs' Club is a demagogy and hollow story, such as the initiatives they have proposed so far, and the way they have shown that they should fight for BiH's European path. 6 However, I would also like to point out once again that these letters of the High Representative but also many others, which have been written and addressed to the SDP, should be part of which we will talk here but also part of a comprehensive story that will not be segmented and used for daily policy purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19074	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19075	Gentlemen, the chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to emphasise the fact that we have repeated several times that the purpose of the Kolegijum that prepares this session is losing meaning. We had a chance yesterday in the afternoon at the College to gather all the valid initiatives needed today for this session, knowing its significance and what happened a few days ago, to take this seriously. And with that, obviously, that of those old habits, we can't give up, and for SNSD it's unacceptable. The SDP is too big a party to be a high representative's courier or to be an interpreter of his letters, and especially when the high representative no longer writes that some are being written or thinks that he should write and his letters are no longer what they used to be, so that one such letter that we respect and respect would be a central topic besides all other important events that were in BiH and outside the previous days, which is related to BiH. That's why it's unacceptable for us in this way, after this important event, to approach these topics. Someone said well at the beginning, although it is incorrect to compare it with one correct initiative by Parliamentarian Nanić, giving the opportunity to say so. There's enough material to talk about these serious things and what they want to do a little bit if it's to pollute, but in this way it becomes, and as I recall the high representative of the previous days speaking in a positive tone about BiH, at least at this point, and there's at least no place for another story right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19076	Dear Representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19077	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed ministers, guests, colleagues, you see,... it is very difficult to plead without having material here and, secondly, that we have no goal of putting some point on the agenda. So we're going to figure out whether we're going to support this initiative or not when we get the material right here in front of us and when we see that letter and, of course, when we see what the goal is. It seems more to me that the SDP here wants to send a message to the High Representative, not to the citizens of BiH, given the latest some... conflicts between the SDP and the SDP's message to the high representative who went from the presidency member or from the party's president and others. I believe that there was also a message from the High Representative towards the SDP and that this SDP initiative was the result. 7 But I repeat, we will define ourselves when we get the material and when we see what we need to discuss, and we cannot choose ourselves by heart, just on the basis of one oral proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19078	Thank you. Dear Representative Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19079	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, I don't intend to have any more serious discussion. Legally, it's the right meaning of MPs and clubs to propose, but I don't think this is the time to open questions like this, after signing here's the information we got from the president. What would be our responsibility as the House of Representatives, or one of the homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, is to see where our responsibility is in implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. It's the only thing that would be responsible for this country, for the public. And I think there is a point 12 on this trail initiated by distinguished representative Husein Nanić and I think there is enough space for us to determine today and politically and institutionally what these are obligations that BiH has made and what are the laws and reforms that should be implemented on the trail and messages of the High Representative, and not only the High Representative, but the EU. We have seen that the highest officials from Solana through Rehn have also sent messages that we should also... here in Parliament... and analyze and elaborate through a single programme of implementation of these obligations. And I think that would be the best answer. I think that this initiative, which Mr Bećirović is talking about, can be included in that, and that today we are not wasting any more time than we are going that way. Here, that's a proposal for me and the HDZ Party 1990.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19080	Thank you. Dear Representative Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19081	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I would like to ask two or three technical questions to clarify. Namely, I'm following this correspondence. I don't understand the letter, which was sent by the High Representative, when he directed it and whether it was an official communication of the High Representative with the institutions. So these are very important elements before I can define myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19082	Can I just take a minute? 8
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19083	Thank you. Dear Representative Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19084	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course there were plenty of reasons here and reasons for the different polemics and replicas of which I would give up in order to create, at the beginning of today's session, a favourable working climate. But I must say that I am amazed at the reaction to a normal legitimate initiative which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which is no exception after the General College session, also came from the SNSD Party a lot of initiatives, at the session itself. So, after the Expansive College session! So it's not about any precedent and it's about one thing, I think, a good intention that just some colleagues don't want to see. It's not just a letter, it's about the contents of the letter and the problem that we have in BiH. We want this parliament, perhaps without much debate, to have one general conclusion that in a situation where BiH is priorityd by the creation of a political climate in which the rhetoric that has been expressed in this Parliament and in the society of rhetoric and hatred and insults, etc. be forgotten and that, starting with the BiH Parliament, we are all sending such a message to the entire Bosnian Herzegovina society and creating an atmosphere that we are more efficient in implementing what is now waiting for us after this signature. Here, that was all intent and essence. Everything else, I don't think they're well-intentioned and that they don't want to see the essence of the initiative. This proposal to consider this within the 12th point, initiative and counterparts of Nanić, I do not think, is not the same thing. A kolega, Nanić, rightly asks for information from the Council of Ministers as far as BiH institutions are aware and able to now act and implement it, and here is the creation of a general political, social climate for this realization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19085	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19086	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, let's get started. No Niko here will appreciate us on the basis of how much we've said and done nothing, but how many laws and decisions we've made here. Both the High Representative and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement will be best answered with the laws we will bring here and the obligations that BiH has. In this way we will make a positive climate in BiH in which we will be able to bring these things. 9 Therefore, I suggest, it is legitimate to suggest this. We've made our point, how do we feel about that? Put it to the vote and let's do the agenda, let's get to work. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19087	I support your initiative. All you need to do is help me get back to work. Dear Representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19088	Well, Mr. Chairman, I don't know if I'm going to help in that sense either, but here's my suggestion. It's general that we don't hang around a lot of different initiatives. We have a way when we vote to support them or refuse them. The proposal for an initiative is legitimate, but here, I'd like to look back on a concrete initiative. I think that we now need activities that are affirmative after this signing, and this one possible debate in Parliament is totally destructive and it is not at all in the context of what the High Representative wanted to say. And he himself, in one place, says that the whole situation with us depends on a positive political atmosphere. By putting possibly this initiative which is completely legitimate on the agenda of this Parliament is the creation of a destructive atmosphere. My proposal, while I have already taken the floor, is that here is the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which I hope will come quickly to this Parliament, to then prepare a serious debate on what Parliament needs to do in the coming period, and if it is possible to simply create an action plan and to be, let me say, the backbone of creating a positive political climate regarding this event that is significant to BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19089	I thank the esteemed representative Dokić. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on the agenda proposal. We have two proposals to supplement the agenda. Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović, is there a need for me to repeat what this is about? I don't think there's any need. It's a brief proposal for a conclusion. Please prepare to vote on Mr Ahmetović's proposal. Vote now! With 25 votes "for", six "abstained", enough entity majority, I find that the proposal of the respected MP Ahmetović has been accepted. We have a proposal for a respected representative, Denis Bećirović. Here, I think enough has been said about the proposal, there's no need to convince him. Please prepare to plead. 10 Vote now! With seven votes "yes", 12 "against", 14 "abstained", I find the proposal not accepted. I conclude that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House for the 31st session established the following 1. Approval of the minutes of the 29th and 30th meetings of the House of Representatives; 2. AgentsMomčilo questions and answers; 3. Novaković for a Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on conflict of interest in BiH authorities' institutions following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of BiH (second reading); 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Administrative Disputes (first reading); 6. The appointment of three members to the Joint Committee for the Consensus of the Law on the Fiscal Council of BiH; 7. Report on the work of the Central Election Commission for 2007; 8. Proposal for a conclusion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the debate on Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2007; 9. Proposal for a conclusion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics on the discussion of the Information of the President of the Council of Ministers of BiH on the work of the State Commission for the Examining of Truths of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Židov and others in Sarajevo in the period from 1992 to 1995; 10. Proposal for a conclusion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee in the context of an information debate on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2007; 11. Proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Transport and Connections in the context of the discussion on the business of the Public TV Service of BiH and measures to overcome the situation identified by the audit reports on the financial operations of the BiH Public TV Service for 2005 and 2006; 12. Proposal for the conclusion of the honourable representative Sadik Ahmetović, who is tasked by the Parliamentary Assembly of Parliament to hold an emergency session, with the aim of considering the requirements of de-certified police officers and informing this House; 13. The House 29-session initiative by President Husein Nanić, which reads "The BiH Council of Ministers is in charge of also delivering information to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the readiness of BiH institutions to take over commitments related to the implementation of the SAA"; 14. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on a) Proposal for the conclusion of the Committee of Representatives of the 29th session of the House, held on 4.6.2008, with regard to the Sefer of the assets of former SKBiH, SSRNBiH, SSBIH, Halilović, 11 b) Proposal for the conclusion of the SDA's Club of Representatives from the 29th session of the House held on 4.6.2008, in connection with the preparation of information on the assets of former DPO (SK, SSRN and Nanić), Husein) The request of the representative Rifat Dolić to be included in the agenda of the 30th session of the House 'The proposal for a conclusion on the establishment and submission of information by the Council of Ministers of BiH on the state and the status of property of the state, businesses and citizens of BiH in the countries of the former SFJ, with the members's plan for the implementation of the Rules of the Treaty of the Treaty on the 15th and the Rules of Law of Law of the Association of the 15th. Giving consent to ratification (a) the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Turkey on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes, (b) the Convention on the Protection of European Wildlifes and Natural Habitats, (c) the Agreement on Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and BAWAG P.S.K. Bank for Labour and Business and Austrian Post Office DD – Medical equipment procurement project for Mostar Clinical Hospital, d) Credit agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and BAWAG P.S.K. Bank for Labour and Business and Austrian Post Office DD – Medical equipment procurement project for Mostar Health, e) Credit agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and BAWAG P.S.K. Bank for Labour and Business and Austrian Post Office DD – Medical equipment procurement project for Cantonal Hospital "Safet Mujic" Mostar. We're moving on to the realization of the established agenda. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 29th and 30th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19093	I thank you, Chairman. Members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament and guests, I would like to make a brief comment. I thank you, first of all, for the quick response from the 28th session... by Minister Sadović and this is about using so-called. light and sound signals privileged, under quotes, cars on the roads of BiH. From this response that I have received, unless there is another legislative possibility, means the legal possibility that cars on the roads of BiH use such markings, I can really say that there are a huge number of illegal users of these so-called so-called. benefits. According to this, only 17 vehicles in BiH would have the right to use. And that, I want here... here's no cameras but here I couldn't keep this quiet, so I can only use vehicles accompanied by police and police and those vehicles have those powers. However, I do – probably the longest I travel in BiH from Krajina, the furthest place is here – I really meet a huge number of these vehicles and I know that cantonal ministries have etc. And I want to warn you, here and here in the presence of the minister, means on one phenomenon,... a very extended, illegal use of these... light and sound signals on the roads and certainly this data from this issue will benefit me for further activity on this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19094	Thank you. Are there any more reported? Dear Representative Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19095	I also have to say I'm not happy with the answer. I've only got a formal response, and you've got it, and the rest of you. You can see. But here's why, as my colleague said, for the sake of the public, look, I will repeat the question and comment on the answer. The question was: What did the Council of Ministers and the Presidency do to address the issues of ownership and protection of BiH's interest in the Adriatic pipeline? 13 And now, here I have received an answer which is as from the Council of Ministers, in fact the answer is given by the pravobranilaštvo, and they say: After a detailed consideration of the issue raised, the D.A. as well as the legal representative of BiH's assets and property interests, etc. Thinks it's a... very important issue, very complex because of the currentity and importance of the same and, in the end, says that... they didn't do anything because the law doesn't allow them to do it but that it should be done by a responsible person from Energoinvest. Actually, this doesn't seem to be anybody's job, it's nobody's property, and the property is, I mean, state property and, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, but I think we should ask one point of the agenda, special, at least repeat the question. But we won't get anything. I think Parliament really should put the issue of BiH's assets outside BiH on the agenda. Here, let it be an initiative this time. I suggest that the material be prepared well, I don't insist on it very quickly, it's no pre-election, but I really think the question is too important to get an answer on a quarter of the page. Here's the thing, as I learned from the media, I have to say I don't have quality information, except for what's in the media, but it's about billions of marks. And we're too small a country and too poor a country to just go through these things, here, that's my comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19096	I thank the esteemed representative Huskić. There are no more notifications to comment on the answers received. We are opening up the possibility of asking new parliamentary questions. Here, the esteemed representative Azra Alajbegović, followed by the next respected representative, Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19097	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have one question for the Ministry of Civil Affairs, which I would like to ask to be forwarded to the Interrectorial Conference, and it is related to the interpretation of Article 28. BiH's Framework Law on Higher Education. The issue of the Interrectorial Conference is: How to specify the scientific work and its implementation relating to the application of Article 28. Framework law on higher education. At the same time, I am initiating the initiative: That the scientific work is adequately defined and that the scientific work is treated not only by works that have a sign of scientific but works with a sign of case representation, original articles, magazine articles, as is usually common practice. I would then forward the initiative, one more, to the Interrectorial Conference, which is: To specify the status of papers published in relevant journals related to the deadline of these papers during the selection process, given the fact that the papers published in the term of the selection procedure in the academic community are absolutely not treated and are not references, both for the previous call because the competition was completed, so neither for the future calling because they did not enter one... time-unexpected space. 14 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19098	Thank you. Dear Representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19099	Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have one request today and one parliamentary question. I would like to appeal to the College of the House of Representatives: to direct an emergency or an emergency for the delivery of answers to my parliamentary questions which I have asked at previous sessions. According to my records, I am looking for 14 or 15 answers that I have set up in earlier sessions to various institutions in BiH. The parliamentary question is addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers to the Ministers of Civil Affairs: whose responsibility is and what can the Resort Ministry do to improve the situation and introduce more order in the treatment of BiH citizens with severe heart disease and some other diseases whose successful treatment is possible in just a few hospitals or clinics in BiH and which, waiting for order of operations, radiation and others, often die or enter the stage of incurability? Unfortunately, we are daily faced with examples of severely ill BiH citizens, whose successful treatment is possible in just a few hospitals and clinics in BiH. For severe heart disease, these are Tuzla and possibly Sarajevo, for cancer diseases whose treatment requires radiation or chemotherapy is Sarajevo, etc. For treatment in Banja Luka and Mostar there are obstacles in insurance institutions and often obstacles that I as a man cannot understand. It is often heard that certain hospitals do not recognize certain findings; for example, magnetic resonance from other hospitals, and that order is waiting for several months. Faced with this condition, the sick citizens and their families are looking for a variety of connections to come to an order in treatment that often reaches out for bribery and corruption. In spite of all this, it is very often late for a sick person and he dies in waiting, for the disease progresses so much to enter the incurable phase. I am often referred to by citizens of the Unsaniscan Canton for the help of this species and I am through friends and acquaintances, I must admit, in several cases managed, conditionally speaking, to help the sick and his family to shorten their waiting for surgery, radiation and discovery, and I personally did not ask for any bribes or anything else. Unfortunately, I was on several occasions and a witness where the sick citizens did not welcome the order for heart surgery and radiation alive, or their disease in waiting so advanced that... their healing became hopeless. In situations like this, in front of me and in front of others as humans, there is a double dilemma. If we don't do something, what we can do, we carry the burden of being able to help something, and we haven't. And secondly, if, under quotes, we help, we are burdened that in this way we may not have made it difficult for someone else who is waiting in the same way for treatment. This is a problem for the whole of BiH, but this problem is most faced with citizens of the UN-San canton because of their distance and, I must say, because of the often excessive administration of the Health Insurance Office. 15 As much as this question seems miniature to another person, for me, facing such things, in the 21st century, painfully and morally burdensome because it is about human lives and especially knowing that these problems were far more qualityd 20 years ago. I don't expect the Resort Ministry to answer me or to solve this problem because it's unrealistic, but I would ask that my question be taken as an initiative or an appeal to do something about this issue because the situation is alarming and, I would say, it's getting harder every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19100	I'm begging you, just a moment. I ask you to... here at this first point, so working, we try to convince ourselves that we do not abuse business provisions because the parliamentary question should normally be short and clear issues. So, not abuse the point, we can all do it, as an opportunity to give a lecture to all of us here, so none of us, and especially to members of the Council of Ministers, are clear what you asked. I'm saying this now here's to your otherwise too long explanation, not just about this representative issue, but about the other way around. So I ask you, and please, everyone else, let us limit ourselves... to the Rules of Procedure and work accordingly, it will be easier for us all and for you, believe me, and more pleasantly and we will achieve much better results than to compete here. Do you have a need for business intervention? _________(?) I don't. Thank you. The following came to ask the question, distinguished representative Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19102	I thank you, Chairman. I really meant to ask for a direct answer today, given that it is a very short question and clear from the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Since there is no minister here, and that a situation has been created for a long time and is not responding to the request, I mean officially I want to ask a question. Since after the 8th joint session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly held on 23 April 2008, so nearly three months ago, I asked the Secretary of the Foreign Affairs Commission to deliver to me, in electronic form, the materials of the ministry that we MPs received in the paper version, i.e. The information on the state of the DKP network in BiH, we have reached the conclusion that we will discuss at one of the next sessions, and in order to facilitate the preparation that I need, easier preparation for the session, since to date, means even after the emergency by the Foreign Affairs Commission secretary, I can't get that document, I really can't figure out what this is about. 16 I thought, so I ask a direct question, so I'm looking for a written answer: Why didn't I get to this day from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and why...can't or won't deliver an electronic version of this information? At the same time, through this parliamentary question, I apologize for taking maybe another half minute. By using Parliament's website, it can indeed be seen that it does not give a full picture of Parliament's activities, particularly commissions and MPs. Next thing. We have also received as MPs a question as to how we want to obtain materials: are they written in paper or in electronic form? We have responded,... I have answered, probably most MPs, to this and given the practice of parliaments in the world that MPs have their own website, within the framework of the BiH Parliament – the parliaments of their national parliaments – I am really setting up, here I stress this problem, that it is necessary to make... a plan of activity in terms of the quality of work of this Parliament and the use of the Internet and advanced technologies.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19103	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19104	I have one parliamentary question. But first of all, I would just like that for the next session of the House of Representatives to be provided with a list of all parliamentary questions to which we have not received an answer, and unfortunately the list is quite large. So that's what you're talking about today, here's what I'd like to ask you to deliver it to us. My question is about protecting domestic meat producers, especially domestic chicken producers in BiH. Namely, in a conversation with domestic producers, I have come up with a series of information that I want and in this way, through a parliamentary question, check first. Namely, Peruttina Ptuj from Ptuj, Slovenia is a company that deals exclusively with peradar production in Slovenia. According to information I received, Peruttina Ptuj BiH is currently offering frozen chicken at 3 KM per kilogram action prices. If it is taken into account that the normal market price for chicken meat is about 4,3 KM per kilogram, then it is clear that such prices aim to make it impossible to sell domestic chicken meat. Of course, Perutnina from Slovenia has enough Brussels resources from her country of origin to withstand such prices as are essentially asphyxiating domestic production. I therefore ask one specific question from the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of the Council of Ministers, which is: What concrete measures are you taking to protect domestic chicken producers in BiH? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19105	Thank you. 17 I don't have any more applications for... He has a respected representative, Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19106	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have received a reply from the Council of Ministers to the question: When will the Proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act in the section on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act be found in the parliamentary procedure? And I'm happy with the answer. I'd like to put a sentence here, which is why I'm going to ask a new parliamentary question today. The law amending the BiH Customs Tariff Act, which is proposed by the Council of Ministers, can return to the parliamentary procedure after obtaining proper approval from the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board. My question is to the Management Board of the Direct Support Board: Will it give any approval in 2008 to amend and supplement the Excise Act, the Customs Tariff Act and the Value Added Tax Act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19107	I thank you, too. Dear Representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We will today, hopefully, decide on the conclusions proposed by the Transport and Communications Commission in the context of the debate on the functioning of the Public TV Service. And my question is not directly related to it. The public is known that the Management Board has come out with one request for an increase in the tv fee. It is also known to the public, I hope, that BiH citizens pay other public services, not through taxes, but through municipal and cantonal budgets. In fact, there are 14 public radios and televisions in the Federation of BiH, which are financed mostly from the municipalities' budgets, i.e. canton. Several years ago, the international community took the most important part in some public broadcaster reforms during that period, and it was then a recommendation to privatise municipal and cantonal public broadcasters. The RS has taken this very seriously and I think all municipal public votes are privatized, while in the Federation it is not... done. The Communications Regulatory Agency has just because of such a recommendation, and because of this process it has decided to issue licences to public broadcasters for only two years, not 10 years, as is the practice of private media. Media reported that the Council of Ministers made one decision before, I don't know how many, a year ago, that municipal and cantonal public media are privatizing. My question is: 18 Has such a decision been made? It's a matter addressed to the Council of Ministers. And if such a decision has been made, then the following question is: Why has the RAC not implemented its permits, because he is obliged to implement the Council of Ministers' decisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19109	Here you go. Dear Representative Dolić: Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19110	Chairman, my business intervention refers to the way you commented on my parliamentary question. I don't think that's in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure. You're right.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19111	Yes, it certainly is in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, just read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19112	Absolutely not. First, let me tell you, as far as the question is concerned. In every question I've asked, the question is sound and ultimately the questionnaire. You can possibly make an observation to me about the length of the exposure, put it on each other, and I'll stick to it. And please refrain from these other comments, the ones you've now had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19113	Thank you. And I have called on you to refrain and believe that I will not have the need for any intervention when you refrain from too long comments and explanations of parliamentary questions. We're all on our way. So this is not just what I'm saying to you, but I'm talking to the House of Representatives here. Here, since I don't have the opportunity to be announced, I'm going to ask one question. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I've been thinking, I must say, before I ask a question, I will now use myself with what I urge you not to do. I was thinking of interrupting the session at the time of the hearing. And, after I ask this parliamentary question, I'm gonna interrupt it, so you know, because this really doesn't make any sense. I would ask the Council of Ministers' chairman and several ministers at the Council of Ministers at the moment, but they are not here, either. I understand that not everyone can be here, I respect that. But I do understand that there is a need for this home to be informed of who can't be, that we know who's justifiably absent. But to ask ourselves questions and wait for answers in 15 days, you speak for some six months, I am not prepared to accept such a way of working and the relations of our executive authority towards this home. 19 And now I will ask the President of the Council of Ministers and the responsible ministries. After reading it in the press, I didn't get a chance to hear it here, that if Bog did, only in the second quarter of next year would we be able to issue the first biometric passport, to answer me, "Why does it take a year, why does it take a year to issue the first biometric passport?" Those who have little interest know that this is one of the key conditions for visa liberalisation for all BiH citizens and for, if Bog so, visa waivers for BiH citizens. If we solve technical issues this long, we will never become an EU member, here's what we all stand for. So, and I'm asking... for your understanding and for this moment. Here, from this place, I am giving a half-hour break and calling on the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers here publicly, asking the service to give them the same invitation, to appear here in the hall, to continue the work. Thank you very much. [[PAUZA]] ...honorable guests, please take your seats to continue our work. We're continuing our work. I would like to inform you that in this apartment we have requested information from all cabinets of ministers of the Council of Ministers about who is here in the building, and who is justifiably absent and we have received information that the foreign minister, the minister of finance and vaults, the minister of transport and communication and the defence minister are officially absent from the country. I thank the members of the Council of Ministers who responded to the invitation to attend this session. And these are mostly those members of the Council of Ministers who regularly attend the session... and thank them for that. We keep working. Moving to point 3 of the established agenda: Ad. 3. Novaković for a Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of the Government under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19116	Mr. Chairman, I first wanted to ask the Proposer: What is this fundamentally new proposal, given that at the last session, when we rejected the law, we concluded... that we need root changes, here is Novaković, and will hear that we need rooted changes in the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions, that some of his provisions, I would even say, and humiliating? I see that it is rewritten, and I want to read this one part that applies to all those who, say, are relatives, are considered close relatives, relatives in the front line, relatives in the slope line to the third degree, relatives in the matrimonial class to the second degree and the child of the spouse. What's new about this stuff and did we last find out through all these discussions that these provisions are really humiliating? On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to a total illogicality that only confirms that the force of pressure on the red colour, in this case, on the red button is much stronger than any argument, because the new promoter is everywhere in these proposals, in every place where he mentions election officials, included advisers. I would just remind you that through the law, which we passed last time, the advisors were thus demoted that they were reduced to the level of the heads of individual departments within the ministerial sectors, and they are here under this law, and so were they equalised with the MPs, because both their father-in-law and their father-in-law can't participate... in any positions as well as when it comes to the minister, as well as when it comes to the MP and the like. I know that this is also prescribed and that this is the position of counselors from the period when foreigners made us this law, but that's because they know what the counselor means. In our practice here's what we're doing. So we forbid there some third generation of advisors to participate in public functions, etc., now that I don't explain it, and with a salary, we degrade it to a level, I repeat again, the head of some department in some department. Or to be even more specific, given that all advisors are not in the same position, that some are in the position that corresponds to this, I suggest that wherever the counselors stand to say: with the exception of ministers' advisers and deputy ministers because they are reduced to the level of department heads within individual ministries. Thank you very much. So, mostly for the first reason, I'm not able to accept this law, because in this sense it offers nothing new. We also talked last time about practices in countries in the environment, in the EU where even ministers or MPs can participate in boards and so on, and we've been brought on, here with new variations, demeaning ourselves, I would say. Thank you very much. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19117	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19118	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I really apologize for the delay in the beginning of the session. I've seen a lot of colleagues there, so I thought we hadn't left yet, so right at first I'm quite clear on how this text of the law came from. So this is the text of the law proposed by the Interresor Working Group. So, I didn't make this text of the law, but it seemed to me after last session that we lightly and too quickly rejected this law, and that's why I decided immediately after that, so a few dozen minutes after that, to propose this law and to draw out an amendment from it that the Constitutional Commission adopted, which was not able to adopt because, according to the interpretation it gave itself... it was an amendment that acted on a member of the law that was not in the law. So it was simply our interpretation earlier that it was impossible for amendments to affect members who did not treat the law on amendments to the law. So, I just pulled that amendment out which was accepted, and everything else, with another amendment, was adopted on the Constitutional Commission here – the proposal of the Interresor Working Group. Of course, now we could discuss whether this is a good solution or not. I don't think it's a good solution, but I think it's better than the one that's in effect. Why did I rush to do it right away? So, after all, local elections are going, lists are going to be checked for local elections, and it's perfectly normal for people who will be there on the lists, if nothing, to know the rules completely clear before we're done forming those lists. That's why, and that's the only reason I've suggested going by article 127, to open up space to have better solutions, at least on that,...now in the selection of lists on a local level, than these are now. Of course, it is understood that the activities that we have given our conclusion here in the Council of Ministers continue to be given to the Interresor Working Group to do a new law. We have adopted such a conclusion that there will be a new Law on conflict of interest and this... does not touch on such a conclusion and in such a position of Parliament, we remain in that position, and I and all of us here, I suppose, must make a new law. Here, these are, firstly, the reasons for urgency and, secondly, some clarifications only when it comes to this text as it is. Of course, we can talk about the position of advisors now, the position of councilors, I guess, how whoever has a friend in a position, then he defends his position. We should now see how many council members in the congregations have no income in these affairs and are in this law and the provisions of this law apply to them and are obliged to respect them, etc. So, I didn't really mean to answer or think to answer, more could answer these questions by chairing the Interresor Working Group because this is the text of the law, I repeat, which the Interresor Working Group accepted with only one amendment, yet adopted on the Constitutional Commission, which was not disputed for anyone and which was adopted unanimously there on the committee. Thank you. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19119	I thank the honourable representative. Correction of the incorrect allegation: Other Vice-President Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19120	The correction of the false assumption is that last time this congregation lightly and irresponsibly rejected the law. I think that the Constitutional Commission has easily and irresponsibly accepted an amendment which is contrary to the nomotechnical rules of how laws are made and... one very important thing regarding the transfer of powers and opportunities in general for entities to pass their electoral laws, which best outlines the President of the Central Election Commission, which is addressed to the President of the National Assembly of the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19121	Thank you. Dear Representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19122	Well, of course, you see, I said that the law has just changed for that member who was controversial. So he's out of the law, and I didn't really say it was easy, but I said that I got the impression that the congregation means he was too fast or too easy to go over the fact that the non-compliance of this law leaves the existing state. So that's what I was thinking, and I don't think we've taken anything lightly or refused here, so in this House. I'm sure everyone thought seriously before they pushed one of these buttons.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19123	I thank the honourable representative. The word has a respected representative, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19124	I am the whole text, which was signed by the distinguished colleague Novaković as his proposal or by the three members of the club, as far as I understand it, and since it was pulled on the computer, that text of the Interresor Working Group, there was a shift in ranks and just so we know, so if this goes through, that we know what goes on in Parliament. This is, therefore, something that is not subject to change, this is a member of 127th and, if it were, as far as I was able to, by following the texts, to follow it, but for every possibility I mention it and how much I understand a colleague of Novaković, so this is the text proposed by Interressor Working Group plus amandman I. ustavnopravni Commission, without amandman II.. Constitutional Commissions relating to jurisdiction. So that's it, if there were any disputes, so know what's been adopted. So that's one thing, if adopted. Another thing, since this is the Interresor Working Group's law, I would ask my colleagues, when they talk about this law that they don't go lightly into some grades, because the simple text of the 23 law itself, it's a little hard to follow, it's complicated, and it's changed twice before, so now they're changing, they're not attacking something that doesn't really stand, because, for example, Mr. Dokić, you mentioned that broad circle of relatives. But that concerns the financial interest. This is therefore the situation where the minister, for example, prohibits the conclusion of a contract with any of his relatives regarding any financial interest. I think it's okay, when it comes to financial interest, that he can't vote in the government and us here in Parliament. He's been constrained, he's a very constipated circle of close relatives when it comes to status, board membership, and he's gone, he's gone, and the mother-in-law is gone. It's just now, it's now relatives... in this real line, and so it's... children and parents and spouses of the elected official. So, family household. Therefore, this law is a few steps forward in relation to the existing situation, and I think that last time Parliament made a mistake in not adopting it. But that's Parliament's decision and what I can do now! The third thing is the thing that will only develop here in Parliament and throughout BiH. It is a question of the application of this law, i.e. an institution that will apply this law. And that thing is developing. That is why the law failed last time because the Constitutional Commission in its amendment said all laws on conflict of interest in BiH apply the Central Election Commission and the Court of BiH, because these are the authorities responsible for implementing this law. That's why the law didn't pass in the House of Representatives, and now there's no law. There's certainly no such thing in the basic law. And we today if we bring down what Mr. Novaković suggested, we will not fix what we should do, for which there is no will. And I think it is wiser to adopt what we have, because it represents an improvement in the text, and only one, I think, very serious debate in BiH regarding the application of this law, because all our acts point to, therefore, the Electoral Law and the earlier law and the complete system, that all laws on conflict of interest in BiH must apply one institution, therefore. There is no single protection, there is no single approach, unless there is one law enforcement body in the area, which is therefore the Election Commission, the Central Election Commission of BiH and the Court of BiH, and there is now controversy on the trail. We had in BiH until February 2008 the system based on the earlier law and one of the Central Election Commission's instructions. The Electoral Commission put the directive out of force in 2008. This law is not regulated because there is no will to settle it in this way and now the debate is opening. However, remember what I said today, however, this will have to end by all...from the Law on conflict of interest in BiH using single bodies, so the Central Election Commission and the BiH Court. Believe me, that's the way it is. And what's trying to do in the entity of the RS when it comes to their law, I think it's deeply the opposite and I agree with the elements written in the letter of the President of the Central Election Commission. And it would be good if we had the strength to, perhaps on another occasion, solve the issue, and if not, it would be resolved. So, now, today is not a subject and I suggest that we support Article 127 and the law itself because it represents a few steps forward in relation to the existing situation. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19125	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation: the esteemed second Vice-President Živković. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19126	First, I'll go back. So this letter, which was sent by the President of the Election Commission, was sent by the President of the Election Commission, not by the Electoral Commission. And the question arises is whether this is an act passed through the Election Commission and whether the Election Commission agrees with this letter. The other thing is that we do not prejudge things, counterpart Džaferović, about what BiH and its institutions will look like, especially if the Constitution and the laws do not regulate it. I believe that you are wrong and that it can be done by an institution at RS level to deal with issues that are within their jurisdiction, such as issues at the level of BiH, which are their responsibilities. There is no reason for the Central Election Commission in Sarajevo to decide which board member in Derventa violated this election law. They also have opportunities to create electoral commissions at entity level, which also allows the Electoral Law, which also allows for the BiH Constitution. The way you think you're doing it is to be meant by a central BiH-level institution, it's not acceptable to me. I don't know what and how the international community will deal with this, but there are times when the international community has imposed laws through a high representative. We can just... sit down and negotiate in BiH, and you're obviously calling on the High Representative again to do things he said two days ago that he won't work anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19127	Thank you. Replication response: Honorable representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19128	...only later will we get a reply to the replica, this is now a replica. Mr. Živković, so you have the right to think as you think, and of course there is nothing I can do about it, except that I can oppose one such opinion. I have no intention of giving lectures here on the Constitution, on the electoral system, on theories that are related to conflict of interest, but let's all know that, let's say, if the situation develops the way you speak, that one very dangerous thing will happen in BiH and I don't know where it will take us, and that everyone who takes care of this country, among other things, of course and the high representative with his mandate, and let him do his job, which is that for the first time in BiH, one of the powers of a state institution will be destroyed and divorced and to her work, but also transferred to the authority of entity institutions. Don't forget this. One practice has been made, and this may not be as difficult a case as a teaching example. That's what I'm talking about. And I'm gonna stop here, and I'm not gonna move on, so there's a lot of stories on this subject, but there's really no need to expand the debate now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19129	A debate or a replica? Dear Representative Kalabić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19130	Well, I can, I can handle it under discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19131	I asked this because there have already been reports of a debate, so I asked. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19132	Okay, but I'll say we try to finish this topic, given that it's a very, very serious thing and, what Mr. Džaferović said, he wasn't talking about the essence but about the form. And by who knows which way it is shown in BiH that, no matter what price it is willing to pay, the form is satisfied, no matter what the essence is, what the essence is. The point is: let's act like this, the form is to act like this, and the point is that the Dervente boardman lost his mandate and banned him there by sanctions, as he goes, political work, all that follows, because he's found himself in some karate club that got 7,000 marks. The parliament last rejected the election commission's position in a way that refused where mathematics spoke of 50,000 marks. It's the essence of law enforcement. So that's the essence of law enforcement, and now it's said that it's going to be better solved this way as it's now imagined. And when we put that in parallel with the Public Procurement Act, where it also showed what centralization means at all costs, which means when you take a bite that's too large for you, you know for institutions you have to have the capacity and everything else that follows, not just a formal decision made in one way or another to do it. When you're dealing with the essence of that law, you'll see how we got to a dead end because someone at all costs pushed such solutions that he pushed. That's how we're in the same situation here. I don't see any reason for it to be regulated in a different way, because if we have a fair presence in the law on this matter, then we can come up with a question where in another plan they're going to put themselves and how they're going to decide, but if you have this kind of approach, and you're still defending that it has to be that way, then you have a problem. And what I was going to say in the end: the sudden concern of the SDS for one of these laws, including some other political parties that have shown that this is heavy matter, is very problematic, and would throw away another light if the Election Commission could now tell us who all the proceedings of conflict of interest are, to tell us the names, last names and I ask them, if there is a chance that they say today, to say that, to see what the situation is, whether quick decisions and hasty after this law and certain solutions are due to the fact that there are some items in the drawers, which I don't think is good. If we adapt the law to individual cases in a party or in a private way, then that's not good. The only common position for all of us is that there's a lot of work to do here, but if we have this partial approach like this, to satisfy party interest or individual interest, then we probably won't come to a solution because you now have a situation that we haven't regulated any regulation that a public prosecutor can be your spouse today. So you have this situation that is what it is. You have a situation where, I don't know, the mayor of the municipality can be without his wife being the president of the court and something like that. So we didn't finish the job here, but we want to get some solutions out of the way, so we're gonna move on. I think we still need that one whole approach until we're done, until we get all this right, then we get to a whole new law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19133	Thank you. Dear Representative Novaković: Replica. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19134	Well, you see, dear colleagues, this isn't a SDS project. I said that at first. I proposed a law signed by Mr. Živković as a member of the Interresor Working Group. I wasn't a member of this Interresor Working Group, and if we look at it that way, then this is a SNSD project, not the SDS. So I didn't propose law in the Interresor Working Group where we participated, but in which you participated. What my motive was, I repeat it, was your motive when you were working in the Interressor Working Group and what you said here, I repeated it by letting us once again have the opportunity to accept a solution that is better than the existing one, and worse than what we need. And don't attribute it to the SDS, it really has nothing to do with the SDS, believe me.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19135	Thank you. Dear Representative Kalabić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19136	It says here: The request of the MP Momčilo Novaković to consider the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest. This is what it says. If he has any other documents, let him say so. If it's a practice, Mr. Novaković, we have a 10 place where we're stuck, where you could step off like this. Here you can get involved in 10 here are the other things down there that are standing... it's a little bit symptomatic that you've just now offered good services to BiH institutions and a sudden concern that you solve it, something that I can't solve here. Last time, we shot down what the Interresor Working Group did that Mr. Živković worked in. But by voting, we expressed our position. And I expected someone else to look for a way out, which is exactly the SDS that usually looks for a way out always but the other side of the one she's now offered. That's why it's symptomatic of me. I told you why it's symptomatic of me, I'd get answers: if the Election Commission didn't vote over, you wouldn't have it in math. What kind of math math is that? 4-5? I guess 2 and 2 were always 4 and in the Electoral Commission about numbers and mathematics and digitron are reputed. If it's 5,000, if it's 50,000, I guess it's quite clear. Now, if they didn't, then I wouldn't tell you this, I think that you correctly understood this, then I wouldn't tell you if you had what the Electoral Commission drawers contain. Then maybe you'd deny me too, maybe I'd take these words back, but I'd like to see who's... running the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19137	Thank you. For the debate, I have registered the esteemed second deputy president of Živković and the esteemed representative Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19138	The reason and way of working in the Interresor Working Group was, I must say, correct and the goal of making improvements to the law, not to reach the ideal law, because it was not possible. This was not possible also because, among other things, the OHR and OSCE stance that the law they imposed at the 27th beginning did not go into radical changes. However, this parliament has given the Interresor Group the task of making a whole new law that must be adapted to the laws and that we have in the environment in Serbia and Croatia. Meanwhile, out of this good intention of making such a law and, among other things, coming out of the Central Election Commission to meet, so as not to selectively interpret the law and to be able to implement it at all, many things have happened. Things happened that the Central Election Commission decided on its decisions, so we had it as a point of order, not waiting for this law to come, to prevent people from being in conflict of interest. It happened that some councilmen, so we're going to mention the boardman in Derventa, we're going to mention that SDS committeeman in Brcko who, in my opinion, was being wrongly punished because for 500 marks he had with his private baker a contract with a hospital in Brcko, and all of his salaries he had as a councilman were given for humanitarian purposes. And it happened that the Constitutional Commission, in my opinion, in an absolutely inappropriate way, wanted this situation to be resolved, what could not be solved in the Interresor Group, in my opinion, in an inappropriate way, and that happened. And for that reason, I changed my mind about the intentions of others who worked in the Interresor Group to improve this law. And now I'm asking myself, why does someone want to do it because we saw in that drawer that there's someone else from Brcko who needs to be regulated? And some other things they won't say here. So my relationship with this law, because of this everything I've stated, has changed since I voted for this law. I think it's an improvement but the way some MPs wanted to change it, some members of the Central Election Commission, have actually shown their true intention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19139	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Some colleagues have already said a lot about what I was going to say, so I'm going to be very brief. You see, on this Law of Conflict of Interest, I don't think there are any colleagues here who will say that this is a good law and that should not be changed. This law was also declared in a certain way by this House at the last session when we discussed the resignations, i.e. the resolution of the foreign ministers and the two deputy ministers in the Council of Ministers. That's when this parliament admitted two things. First of all, he derrogated the law that he brought himself. So he didn't respect the law, he didn't respect the decision of an institution based on that law and had the authority to enforce that law. And he didn't respect the Council of Ministers' initiative. And in an attempt to change that law, it failed. And now, so we're getting into a situation where we're seizing ourselves, what they say, we have a problem, we try to solve it, we go into an even bigger problem. And an even bigger problem arises from a strange decision by the Central Election Commission which devastates itself of the further obligation to implement this law, a state-run law at all levels. So it happens just over half a year before the municipal elections. I am now asking the question: that we have the best now and I don't know what kind of law on 28 conflicts of interest, which is now an institution in BiH that will conduct this in municipal, here is specifically municipal elections? Therefore, they will knowingly enter into violation of the state law, and there is no institution to register or process it. That's why, and this good intention of fellow Novaković, I don't see that it will fix anything, no matter what the proposal is. For me, the central issue remains – and I will talk about it a little bit more when we discuss the Central Election Commission's report – as is possible, under whose pressure it is decided that the Central Election Commission will break down its obligations. I know, no entity laws have been passed, and they should have been in place within 60 days of the entry into force of this law. But it is no excuse that after three or four years of this practice, eight months before the elections, the Central Election Commission is dissuading those obligations. Let him relax, but we need to know the compensations, we don't have a replacement for the situation. And I think this is a very irresponsible role for the government in a very complex political issue. That is why I think it would be good, however, if we still have time, which are deadlines, given the upcoming elections, that we might try again to make an effort to bring this to an end and in one correct way that we will be able to implement in practice. Without this authority from the Central Election Commission, until this issue is resolved in entities, I don't think we've done any work, regardless of the quality of the amendments and the addition of this law. And you see, on condition that laws are now passed in entities, they are expected to be fully in line with state laws, and then, if so, there are certain bodies to implement that law in entities. What does that mean? Fleeing from the Central Election Commission continuing to do the job. This means, or implies one doubt that these bodies in entities – will essentially not implement this law as it is, that they will have some criteria and arches to implement. Of course, this law needs to be changed in a better way so that it can be normally implemented without drastic human rights violations. That's what you were talking about last time. That's it. So I say, we have, unfortunately, been brought into such a situation that at this point, neither by Article 127, without this provision, who is in charge of implementing this law, we will do nothing. At least from the point of view of implementing future municipal elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19141	I thank the esteemed representative Križanović. Dear Representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19142	It's kind of a replica. I fully understand the intentions of counterpart Novaković and I am convinced that they are very good. But there's a replica right there for him. At one point he claimed, here, if anyone had any acquaintances, so he recognized them there, then there's a reaction. Unfortunately, we often have key things and rules that are tailored to whether anyone knows or not. I pointed to one absurdity, and the opportunity was, behold, a last debate and the current debate and that these things were repeated, and that the arguments were not respected. But this is also about individual approaches. Surely, counterpart Novaković thought that this 29 intervention also removed some individual illogicalities and made things better. And I assure you that we will do more damage if we adopt this law now ad hoc and resolve let, here I accept, and absurd questions that exist, than to wait and respect the conclusion of this Parliament from the last time that it insisted that we work on a fundamentally new law, in line with the European standards that will make... the institutions of BiH and it is high time for us to take some of the good recommendations that came from the international community, because it is obvious that we did not understand well in this respect thank you. ...with these, here's the changes, we'll continue, here's our Central Election Commission, to put ourselves in a position to make political cases by interpreting the laws. This law was made so that it can be compared to... one thought of the esteemed bishop Nikolaj Velimirović, who says, everyone is more obvious that the oak is more obvious than the grain on the oak. But if you look too much at the pine on the oak, it suddenly becomes more obvious than oak. The essence of this law was to prevent corruption. But in that oak of corruption and that law there are so many different Jews, various kinds and different sizes, in which politicians and the Central Election Commission look at each other from time to time, that he became himself the opposite, and that he creates new political cases, as we had in the last time, voting for three members of the Council of Ministers. Therefore, once again, it is my suggestion, if I have the right, that counterpart Novaković withdraws this law, to shorten this time, because it will obviously not go away, to shorten the time, and to insist that as soon as possible... a new, or brand new law, which will respect every citizen of BiH in the way it is done, here, and in the European countries and the European Union, where we want to be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19143	I thank the esteemed representative Dokić. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Moving to item 4 of the agenda: Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of BiH (second reading) At the 28th session, we adopted the bill in the first reading. The Joint Committee on Defence and Security submitted the Report on the Proposal for a Law on 3 June 2008. The report found that there were no amendments to the commission hearing. The competent committee accepted the text of the proposed law. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. Dear Representative Novaković. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19145	I have a question for the legislator, so the minister present here. We're witnessing these days, so we've even put one conclusion on the agenda today, and it's about the decertified cops. I wonder if the provisions – here, I have tried and failed to figure out whether the provisions of this law have anything to do with this, or whether the provisions of this law improve or worsen this case in any way or similar cases that may arise in the future? So, a very... brief answer I need, because I failed... from these provisions of the law to... such a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19146	Thank you. Are there any others reported? I'm asking the Honorable Minister to give an answer to the representative. Security Minister Tarik Sadović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19147	The Honorable Chairman, Deputy, Honorable Representatives, Media Representatives, fellow Ministers, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers is the result of a presidential statement by the Security Council, which addressed the problem of decertified police officers to the extent possible. From the questions raised by the honourable MP Novaković: Does the provisions of this law mean a step forward in resolving the existing status of de-certified police officers? So the answer is yes. Under the same conditions as other BiH citizens, the law stipulates that de-certified police officers can, and under the same conditions as other BiH citizens, apply to a public competition for a job in one of the police, state police agencies, and what is the exception, and this law provides for the general conditions for applying for a competition for candidates, for police officers and the age limit of 35 years. So, de-certified police officers can apply beyond that limit, so 35 years old, so under the same conditions as any... other citizen of BiH, of course,... according to the Law on Police Officers. The amendments and additions to this law are therefore in line with the opinion of... the international community in BiH, the OHR Office, as speculation appears in the public that OHR's position does not correspond with the presidential statement of the Security Council, I can tell you that OHR's position is in fact in line with the presidential statement... Security Councils and, in that sense, other police agencies, cantonal, the MUPs have made changes and additions to this law, so here we are. Of course, we have a problem with de-certified officers who strike hunger in front of OHR. They think they've been wronged a great deal, that they have the right to some other things, such as compensation, connecting the job, I don't know what their demands are. Unfortunately, therefore, the presidential statement and the international community's position in BiH is very clear and very rigid, so only...a re-application to the public competition is what the 31st presidential statement essentially means. And that's how they look at solving the question of de-certified police officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19148	I thank the Honorable Minister. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić came to the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19149	I'm going to ask the minister to wait for the question, as long as he's here, I'm not sure that later on, when we talk about this second proposal, the conclusion will be discussed. Since your political party MP Mr Ahmetović has proposed this item of the agenda, I would ask you to take this opportunity to tell us: What is possible, given what conclusion we make and decision, it will be referred to you again as a minister. Now that we're not playing some kind of hidden game, the public is probably watching and listening and expecting you to tell us, "What else can we do and what should we do to possibly help these people without breaking into the story of any demagogy or deception of them or anyone else?" I would ask you because, just for the reason that, when we discuss it, I'm not sure, you're probably here on this point planning to comply with your obligations, and I don't know when we're going to get into a situation, and if you're going to be there.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19150	Thank you. Let's see if there's any more discussion, so maybe the minister, if you need to answer all the questions and dilemmas. Dear Representative Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19151	Here, part of my question was actually taken entirely by Mr. Kalabić. I'd just like to, so I'd like to add... to this question two more items, and that's: Is the school, the high school that the de-certified officers have, is an adequate school on these competitions that they can now report to as police officers? And secondly, what happens to de-certified cops who have already... become biologically old enough to have obtained retirement conditions? This question of mine has actually come from conversations with de-certified police officers, since I, as a member of the Human Rights Commission together with Mr Ahmetović, was on a short visit to de-certified police officers. These are the two items that they particularly insist on, and 32 I would ask that this statement by Minister Sadović be a statement that will be delivered to the decertified police officers, because they really follow the work of today's House of Representatives and expect us to do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19152	Thank you. Are there any more reported? There isn't. Please, Reverend Genjac, second time sign in electronically to make it a little clearer.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19153	I'm sorry. Dear Chairman, I think it is not good to put the minister in a position to give an answer in advance to an initiative that comes down to holding a Council of Ministers session. I agree that there are problems here, but let the Council of Ministers hold a meeting, so let them talk and find the modality. Maybe there'll be an idea. There are limited possibilities indeed, but there may be some ideas. And I think it would be good to separate these two issues, the adoption of the law and the adoption of this initiative,...the possible adoption of a conclusion on the Council of Ministers' session. I mean, so it wouldn't be good if the minister at this opportunity, regardless of which party is the initiative from which ministers function as members of the Council of Ministers, and I think it would be good if we could vote to hold a meeting of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19154	Thank you. I have specific questions for the minister,...the minister can answer and may not answer. I don't want to say what the minister is going to answer and how he's going to answer, but I have questions, so whether he wants a minister and in what way. Here you go, so come out, so say, I mean, I can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19155	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished MPs, therefore, this is an electoral one, to address this issue the electoral authority of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, but in technical terms police jurisdiction is...in jurisdiction... The Department of Security, and in that sense we have formally appeared as a proposing of this law, as many police agencies have done before us, I repeat. I would like to remind you of a letter which Mr. Rafi Gregorijan, the first Deputy High Representative, on behalf of the OHR, sent to Dr. Safet Halilović, me and Mr. Bariša Čolak, former members of the so-called Monitoring team, which was supposed to resolve the issue of these de-certified police officers in line with the Action Plan, which at the time 33 brought the Council of Ministers, and then put out of force. This letter was also sent to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Of course, other relevant individuals and structures of government were also available. I would remind you of a few very clear views in that letter. So, I read and quote: According to the terms of the United Nations Security Council President's letter of 30.4.2007, the process of employment consisting of an internal competition, I ask you to distinguish, therefore, from an internal competition, published by the police authority only for former police officers who have been denied certification by the IPTP is not allowed, or not in accordance with... therefore, an internal competition, a competition which would solve the issue, is not allowed. So, only a public competition is allowed for all... citizens to participate. Also, this concerns most Parliament, the amendment,...an invalid law on BiH police officers that would regulate the issue of compensation, the possibility of extrajudicial alignment with the applicants who pass the application process and ask only for the regulation of the importing of the employment position and the payment of outstanding earnings, subject to termination from the conduct of the court procedure, are not compatible with the conditions laid down in a letter from the UN Security Council president since 30.4.2007. Of course, Parliament is the largest legislative body of government. He can't take it. He can act in amendment to the law and install all these things...in law, but then risk conflict with the UN Security Council, with representatives of the international community in BiH, etc. So here I repeat once again, so the Council of Ministers, the Resort Ministry and other resolution ministries have done only what they were able to do. Whether Parliament will define itself in another way to address this issue and, of course, with certain risks, it is indeed beyond my jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19156	I thank the Honorable Minister. The word has a respected representative, Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19157	As I understand it, although we as well as colleagues Novaković were not very clear from the content of the law how we're going to help decertified police officers, because there's all the time that something can't be done, that something is not allowed, that means some restrictions with some negative omen are but, as I understand it, however, from the reasons of the law, this thing is agreed between the international community and the representatives of the decertified officers. And now it's some...minimum to start from. So I realized that also de-certified police officers agree that this law was adopted today as a first step. And I don't think there's any other one of us but to adopt him. And then today we're going to have the next agenda point, which will talk about the next few measures, the way to help these people. Obviously, the international community has gone too far here compared to these people. And now he's stubbornly holding that attitude and not letting them out. So we're going to have to look at what to do, what our answer to 34 is to be such a one... attitude and attitude and the relationship of the international community, and yet to help these people realistically, but in that next...later provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19158	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19159	Since we are talking about how now who realized what the minister said and what the essence of the problem was, this is not how I understood what my colleague Izetbegović was saying. First, I understand, between the lines, what the minister said, the conclusion you're thinking of making – hang the cat on the tail. That's what I realized. So don't send the Council of Ministers anything, we've done everything we can. That's how I realized, if I didn't get it right, then it's my problem. And I now understand from the minister's statement -- there is no respected colleague Ahmetović -- that this commission, instead of going to the police, should have sat down and written amendments to this law. And I'm not sure that—now I misread—that the people of the association are in agreement, I'm not. If they are, then it makes it easier for the whole thing, but I'm not sure, I don't know now, I don't know, I just understood the message of the minister, about possible solutions and the only thing people from the same political party, MP Ahmetović and minister should have agreed before that not to get into this situation, but well, now, what's there is, we have the next point so we'll see what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19160	Thank you. No more reported on this agenda item. I'm closing the debate. We move to the fifth point of the established agenda: Ad. 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Administrative Disputes (first reading) On 5 June, the Council of Ministers delivered the draft law procedure set out in this point. It's being considered in regular procedure. The Constitutional Commission is relevant. We received the opinion of the relevant committee on constitutional basis and principles on 13 June 2008. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda: 35 Ad. Six. Appointment of three members of the Joint Committee to bring BiH Fiscal Council Act into line
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19164	Dear gentlemen, gentlemen of Parliament, distinguished guests, allow me to welcome you all together and submit a third report on the work of the Central Election Commission for 2007. In fact, it is my intention to submit a shorter exposé on the work of the Central Election Commission in 2007, because you have received a broader report earlier in the material for the session of this high house. I submit this report in accordance with the BiH Election Law, more specifically, in accordance with Article 29(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The BiH Election Law, which regulates the submission of an annual report by the Central Election Commission to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The report you received, the Central Election Commission adopted at its 10th session of 13.3.2008, after which it was submitted to you for consideration and adoption. The report refers to the overall work of the Central Election Commission for the period from 1.1.2007 to 31.12.2007. So, apart from the part of the report concerning the implementation of the Election Law, the report suspended the Central Election Commission's activities at the implementation of three other laws, whose implementation was given to the responsibility of the Central Election Commission of BiH. It is about the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of BiH, the Law on the Financing of Political 36 Parties, and parts of the Law on the Council of Ministers, in fact, of that part of the law, which refers to the examination of candidates for the Council of Ministers, ministers and deputy ministers in the council. During 2007, the Central Election Commission carried out the tasks and tasks set out by the annual plan and programme. Since 2007 has not been an election year, a year of holding regular elections of municipal or general, more attention has been given to amendments and additions to legislative acts, as has been proposed from this higher home, on the occasion of considering the 2006 Central Election Commission's work. However, despite this, the fact: in 2007 the Central Election Commission of BiH in January and February 2007, based on the results of the general elections held in 2006, confirmed the results of the special elections for the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH 18.1. as well as the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH since 27.2.2007, and granted mandates to elected representatives of these homes. Then, in seven municipalities in BiH, early elections were held in Cacinec, Celinac, Donji Vakufu, Eastern Drvar, Calesia, Novi Sarajevo and Zvornik for the mayors of the municipalities mentioned. In the last quarter of 2007 because of the sudden death of Republika Srpska President, the Central Election Commission of BiH called early elections for the RS president, held on 9.12.2007. On the aforementioned early elections, you have all the data listed in the Annual Work Report, so I don't bother you with these details. In the report, you could note that during the period from 1.1.2007 to 31.12.2007, the Central Election Commission held 74th session with 469 items of the agenda, which preceded the maintenance of 150 sessions of the College, which discussed issues from the Central Election Commission's work cycle, with the application of, of course, the provisions of all the laws entrusted to us in jurisdiction. Subject Report on the work of the Central Election Commission for 2007, which you are considering today, is divided into eight parts, which make up one logical whole. The first part of the report discusses the already mentioned completion of the special election based on the 2006 general elections, then on early direct elections for the mayors of the municipalities and the president of the RS, then on activities to realise the project, passive registration of voters in BiH with a proposal for recommendations to launch a new project, a single electoral information system for BiH, which includes the development of an integrated software solution to the single election system for BiH for the entire election administration in BiH. The second part of the report concerns the implementation of the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions, with clear difficulties and problems that the Central Election Commission of BiH faces in applying and implementing this law. On the procedures launched, opinions given and sanctions given, you have more detailed – I think Mr Kalabić asked this question – in addition to this report, in the 9th and 10th reports. So, in this written material you've got. 37 The third part of the Report is dedicated, as I say, to the implementation of the Law on the financing of political parties with the outlined summary of the most important audit findings. The fourth part of the report discusses the implementation of that part of the BiH Council of Ministers Act for which the Central Election Commission is responsible. Part Five of the Report discusses international co-operation between the Central Election Commission of BiH as well as seminars and training organised by the Central Election Commission or attended by the members of the Central Election Commission of BiH, as well as the Secretariat of the Central Election Commission. Here, today is a comprehensive seminar of members of municipal election committees here in Sarajevo. The sixth part of the report refers to the public's work of the Central Election Commission of BiH. The seventh part speaks about the structure of the Secretariat or the Secretariat of the Central Election Commission of BiH, with the satisfaction of informing this high house that we have fully structured the establishment of the Central Election Commission Secretariat. There is still his personnel complete, or complete. And finally, the eighth part of the report refers to the conclusions and recommendations that some of them have already been made, which I warmly thank you for. And let me finally introduce you to the final report on the 2007 audit by the BiH Institutions Audit Office, which, of course, refers to the Central Election Commission. I will only quote their opinion in two sentences: The Financial Report of the Election Commission for 2007 shows the real and true financial situation on 31 December 2007 and is in line with the Financial Reporting Regulation and the Accounting Regulation of BiH institutions. In all materially significant aspects, the expenditures of the Election Commission were used for the purpose set by the BiH Parliament and are in line with the relevant regulations. I'm going to finish this brief presentation with one more request, that this high house supports our recommendations and beat them to their conclusions, especially in connection with the creation of a new Law on Political Organization. By the way, I should say that the Central Election Commission has prepared a pre-monitoring for the same and has provided you as an initiative, as well as a conclusion in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to provide full support and financial support for the implementation of the project, a single electoral information system in BiH and to ensure an adequate space owned by the BiH State for permanent accommodation and the work of the Central Election Commission. On behalf of my colleague, Suad Arnautović, President of the Central Election Commission, who is here... present, but is currently not in the hall, I sincerely thank you and here we are at your disposal for any questions if there are.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19165	I thank the esteemed Mr. Mikić. There are no reports to discuss this item on the agenda. I'm closing the debate. 38 I move to the eighth item of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a conclusion of the Constitutional Legal Commission in the context of a debate on the Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2007. I remind you that at the 26th House session, held on 2.3 and 10 April 2008, we discussed the Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2007. We then received the information, and the conclusions proposed by representatives Jozo Križanović and Momčilo Novaković were forwarded to the committee responsible, with the obligation to submit a proposal for the adoption of the whole conclusion to the House. Acting upon the conclusion of the House, the Constitutional Commission delivered to the House on 28 May a report showing that the commission did not accept the conclusion proposed by the prominent representative Križanović, and that it accepted the modified proposal for the conclusion of Momčilo Novaković, which reads: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the BiH Council of Ministers to urgently adopt the strategy and criteria in priorities in the processing of war crimes cases. I'm opening a debate on this conclusion. Dear Representative Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19167	So, logically, it sounds like Mr. Novaković's conclusion. However, I think we still need to think again, so just go to adopt half of this conclusion, which would read, and the SDA will, in that sense, make a proposal in writing, which would be reduced only, I say to the first part: that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the Council of Ministers to urgently adopt a strategy on solving the problem of... war crimes. So, let's help the courts in a wide range of ways... capacitate and speed up these processes, I think 13,000 people are waiting,...a huge number of them to be processed and to leave out the story of criteria and priorities, however much I say it makes sense to make some criteria and priorities, because it's going to be an impact... Here, we owe the Council of Ministers, the operational authority, the executive authority, to determine the priorities of the judicial authority what to do somewhere and what to do, and what to put at risk, the real danger of political interference, and from the national, political, party, entity, etc., from that platform. We have a decision... The PIC, a recommendation by the PIC a few months ago, contained in five points that are a prerequisite for turning OHR into the EU Office in BiH. Lastly, the fifth says it is necessary to ask BiH authorities to make a national war crime strategy. And I think we should kind of adopt that formula today, without these further stories of priorities and criteria. Is, as I said, here I repeat, she's putting the political interference at risk of operating in judicial power. That is why... Mr. Šefik Džaferović has taken his opinion because of this danger. Thank you. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19168	Thank you. Are there any more reported? There isn't. Dear Representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19169	At the last session, or regular session... we discussed the report and discussed the conclusions, and on the basis of these discussions and conclusions, we tasked the Constitutional Legal Commission to bring some sort of conclusion from those two who had. So, and the Constitutional Legal Commission has adopted, so, and proposed to the House of Representatives a conclusion that stands in the report of the Constitutional Commission and indeed there is no point in further changing this proposed conclusion. We can support him or not support him, of course, it's the right thing to do, but further investment in the conclusion, really, after all these discussions, wouldn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19170	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. I'm going to point nine, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a conclusion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, rights of the child, youth, emigration, refugees, asylum and ethics On the occasion of the discussion of the BiH Council of Ministers' Information on the work of the State Commission for the Examining of Truth on the Death of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej and others in Sarajevo from 1992 to 1995 at the 24th session held on 18 and 19 March 2008, the House of Representatives concluded the obligation of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rights, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics to consider proposals for conclusions presented in the discussion of the Council of Ministers' Information on the activities relating to the establishment and work of the Committee for the Examining of Truths of Serbs, Croats, Bosniaks, Jews and others in Sarajevo in the period 1992 to 1995. Following the conclusion of the House, the Commission sent to the House of Conclusions on 20 May: 1) The State Commission for the Study of Truth on the Death of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej and others in Sarajevo in the period from 1992 to 1995, which was appointed at the 121st session of the Council of Ministers, held in 15.6.2006, to submit a financial report and a report on work. 2) It is proposed to the Council of Ministers to make a new decision on the establishment of the Committee of Truth on the Deaths of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej and others in Sarajevo in the period from 40 1992 to 1995, according to the recommendation of No 05-7-613/25-06, which was adopted at the 126th session of the Council of Ministers, held on 3.8.2006. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I'm going to the 10th point, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a conclusion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee on the debate on Information on the state of security in BiH in 2007
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19173	Mr. President, thank you very much. My colleagues, my colleagues, in preparation for the 30th session of our home, I received in the material of the Joint Commission's proposal for a conclusion on the Security Information debate, which has been introduced and introduced since 27 May 2008. This is where the Joint Commission wrote that it proposed conclusions under: 1. That the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly requires the Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers to deliver: a) defined basic factors that endanger security in the priorities of completion, b) a clear and precise proposal for measures and actions to improve the overall security situation, with clear operators of activities and deadlines, including legislative, executive, judicial activities, etc. Then it was point two and so until point 10 with the signing of the chairman of the Joint Commission, Mr. Branko Zrn. In this sense, it is also completely agreeing with this work version of the proposed conclusions, which the Joint Commission on Defence and Security has submitted to us, and shocked or horrified again 41 as well as all Bosnian Herzegovic public with certain tragedies, and not to say mass crimes and murders, which happened again in BiH during those days, that I have tried to, by fully supporting this work version of the Joint Commission's conclusions, position in this conclusion number 1 under point (c) of the new indent which would say that in this sense: The House of Representatives... requires the Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers to make a clear and precise proposal of measures and activities to reduce the personal weapons of citizens and tightening conditions for the approval of the possession and carrying of weapons of individuals. In my explanation, I was very brief and very precise that we are witnessing increasingly frequent tragedies, public and family, because of weapons available in the house to children or minors, because of inappropriate use of weapons on worlds, weddings, celebrations, etc., because of increasingly aggressive accounts of criminals in public spaces, and then ordinary citizens are victims, collateral damage to these accounts and, finally, because of weapons that are in the hands of psychiatric patients, whether they are available to them or not, whether they have or not. At the time, there was just a current tragedy from Tuzla in which all of us, as well as the citizens of BiH, could be familiar with the fact that only now at some cantonal levels are trying to make legal regulations in the sense that man must get that one barrier, the right to carry arms, possibly a doctorial belief that he is not mentally unstable or not a psychiatric patient. My proposal does not go in the sense of dodging any individual human rights and freedoms. It's just, indeed, a tragic experience that our country had during the four-year war, a lot of lagging weapons, mass actions that our government and international forces have performed, that illegal possession of weapons or retained weapons in possession of doors, but yet we witness children getting hurt, that innocent little people who play in their backyards are wounded or that someone in the mental disorder phase kills their neighbors, their relatives, or... random passers-bys. Here, it was my motive that, if not entering competences, of course, in coordination with all levels of government and not usurping the competences of all lower levels of government, in some way and at state level, we try to contribute and show our good will and our willingness to provide and legitimate means of security for our citizens more than ever before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19174	Thank you. No more reports. He has a respected representative, Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19175	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I have two versions here, with my work version not being signed, and I suppose it's not yours either. Mrs. Malić, it is, it is, but it's not signed, so there's some reason why it is, but it doesn't matter now. I'll tell you that if you compare the conclusions of the 1st version of the work, which Mrs. Malić says, and the 4th conclusion of the same version, from this version that we have, then I think the conclusion of the 4th is broader and more quality and that it contains what was in conclusion number one. And it all comes down to 42 building a list of security challenges. And this material in this form has been spinning on the Ministry's line for over a year – the Defence Commission – Parliament, etc. I think the time has come for us to really very, I would say, seriously approach this problem. I also talked to Minister Sadović, and I'm glad he's here and he'll probably say something about this. Approximatelyly, I realized that the ministry has no capacity to create that list of challenges and watch what is... paradox here, this problem that Mrs. Malić is talking about, I'm talking about a long period, because,... there is one strategy that the Council of Ministers has done, there are research conducted by the UNDP, the data are truly devastating. There are over 550,000 weapons in BiH, and... a very small number is under control, the rest is just assumed to have so many, perhaps more. Also, 30,000 tonnes of ammunition has surpluses in BiH, 30,000 tonnes, which means 7 to 8 kg per capita. It is a potential danger that can become a tragedy every day, so thank Bog it hasn't been so far, but we know that these kinds of tragedies, explosions, were happening in Slovakia, Slovenia, Serbia, Albania, etc. Every country in the environment had a problem with that, we haven't had it yet. I think we should do this next. I agree and I can understand the minister... to avoid accepting that the ministry... does that list of security challenges. And look what's an even bigger problem: these excess weapons are not mentioned at all in the reports sent by the Ministry of Security because they get reports from the MUPs and just add them together, so they add data. And then it happens that in the proposal we have measures there to... adequately apply the Traffic Safety Act on the roads... etc., from holes in the road in that report... to ammunition, to mines, to human trafficking, to drug trafficking etc. I think it would be really high time and it would be very useful for Parliament to take a part of responsibility, one part of the commission, one part of the ministry, to create a working group in which both domestic and foreign people would be, so that no one would be the target for shooting when they make that list. And to make a list of one: what is it really, what are the problems in BiH and how to solve them. Now, now, as we do, it's like driving a car, in my opinion, without a marked path and without a tablet instrument. And we're going somewhere and driving, and there's nothing to refer to. So this problem is not just for the ministry, especially for its capacities and for its legal role, I understand that minister. But I think it's such a significant question that we shouldn't be silent to the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers is coming back, but that we should form a common group in which foreigners would definitely be involved. I know that EUPM and this EUFOR also show interest in these topics and should be included. Let's make ten or twenty of some problems that we might change in a year, but we have to start from something. Here, that was a concrete suggestion. I think it's possible to do that and that's the best solution. So, if we... if we return the report to each other to fix it, to upgrade something, everyone has an opinion on what the biggest problem is. The biggest problem is what happens right now. Someone is burdening this incident in Tuzla, someone who's in Bihac, someone when a mine explodes somewhere, somewhere when there's an accident, here they are now... when graduates... there are accidents on the roads etc. So, to sum up, I suggest that we make one common, here's what they call an inter-resor or interparliamentary joint committee and Parliament and the Council of Ministers and international organisations, to make a list of the problems most burdensome in this country and 43 ways of resolving them, and then we can see through the time period how this plan is realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19176	Thank you. Dear Representative Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow MPs, I think it's... The Joint Defence and Security Committee has made these proposals a little bit of a comfortable conclusion, and I think we should all go a little deeper into the analysis of these conclusions for the simple reason that we will not be able to make a solution tomorrow, or we won't be able to respond, and the taking of the obligation means, right, and looking for the realization of these tasks from that obligation, or in that way we might be able to enter into... a circuit that we won't be able to simply get out of. And I think and I'm afraid that we don't release the responsibilities of those who on the ground at this point can prevent some of these activities that are instigated here, right, one like this, and I think that this Joint Defence and Security Commission has a little... loaded, come on, folks should say, both the Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers, given the powers that they have at this point. I'll remind us all that we've been here a long time, not so long ago, has he talked about police reform? We mentioned... Mostar Declaration, the Sarajevo Action Plan, and we cannot escape that text, if, and what, the police reform that we have, is, in the words, because I have not voted for such a police reform and the SDA's Club has not done so either. ... We didn't end it the way she would have the authority to solve these problems. And now we don't have one such police force, or we don't have one Ministry of Security in that capacity, and we're taking over. We have to tell here who's responsible for something and what he can do and who isn't. Because take point 1 and read: The House of Representatives requires the Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers to specify, within 60 days, clear proposals for measures and actions to improve the overall security situation, with clear operators of activities and deadlines, including legislative, executive, judicial activity, institutions etc. Do we have jurisdiction or the Ministry of Security when it comes to legislative, judicial authority? What are his responsibilities, etc.? So we have to make that clear so that... we know what we're doing right now to realize some of these conclusions here. And perhaps it would be best to introduce after point 9 of Article 2 which says this will be applied when the Mostar Declaration, the Sarajevo Action Plan... implements a final police reform, which implies a reform of the BiH Constitution. That's how it stands. I don't think at this point we need to take on so much what we can't do right now. But we can say that he's in charge of these and those problems. In 44 BiH is police, because the Ministry of Security is not responsible, for which entity police, police canton police, should define these and those things, so that what is happening, with certainty, can be completely prevented in BiH, etc. ... Something like this is similar, here we were just discussing de-certified cops, is it possible that we can take over here today and in that sense some obligation to solve it, but here we were just talking about the way it can be solved. We'll talk about it, we'll make some decisions that we won't be able to make, and it'll remain a commitment both to the Council of Ministers and to Parliament to deal with it further, and we need to, when these things are, we need to be sensitive, we need to be rational, we need to know at this point what we can essentially... to do. Is this the proposal that Mr. Huskić spoke of earlier, or the return of this to the commission to specify exactly what the Council of Ministers at this point, or the Ministry of Security can do or not, here I would like to discuss it a little bit more, rather than just having these conclusions that we will not be able to realize later, so someone will find themselves again, remember to say that these conclusions have been made, nothing has been done by them, and no one will tell us whether it could be done. So in that part, we can get a little serious about these proposals and see what's realistically feasible when it comes to the obligations of both the Ministry and the Council of Ministers. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19178	Thank you. Replica: Honorable representative Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19179	I would like to replicate the two things that my colleague Sokolović said. First the other one, so what those two laws have nothing to do with this, doesn't need to be mixed, pears and apples. Secondly, two by two, what he and his colleagues have suggested with the amendments wouldn't in any way solve anything here, but it's not a subject. Look, here at point 1, it says: The House of Representatives requires the Ministry of Security to propose measures and actions to improve the overall security situation with clear operators of activities, deadlines, including legislative, executive and judicial activities, institutional and personnel training, etc. The material itself bears the title of the proposal for a conclusion on the information debate on the state of security. So it wasn't the commission sitting down and pulling this out of their heads, it was the information prepared by the Department of Security. And in that information, among other things, it's been said that, I don't know, laws... allow for low sentences that aren't, are they, destimulative for offenders, for example. in the drug trade that should sharpen legal penalties and that's that, that's our jurisdiction here, at least that's how I realized it, and I think the others are, there's someone else from the commission here. As for the... personnel training structure, here's the question: how many people are missing in the SIPA, how many people are missing in the Border Police? And if we don't talk any further, here, so everything that's written isn't written for nothing, I think the conclusions are very good, but not just the ministry -- that's what I said for the first time -- it can't just be realized by the ministry and this is a broader problem, and I think that the country's presidency should be able to get 45 involved in this problem and the Council of Ministers and the Assembly and the entity MUPs and all, if we want to do something. If we don't, we can always spin here, make... loops and constantly circle the same material from one to the next, we won't do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19180	Replica: Honorable representative Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19181	I don't know if Mr. Huskić understood what I was talking about. So part of these findings of the commission should be realised by lower police bodies in BiH and I don't see it there, because I know that the Minister of Security, i.e. Today Mr. Sadović... does not mean a system of subordination to order someone. And we hire him here to order someone down. In that part, I want to make us serious that we are not... giving obligations individually if we know in advance that someone has no authority to carry out these tasks, but to see who it is essentially and here is Minister Sadović and we ask him to solve this problem, because that is how the constitutional organisation of the state is today, and here is the police segment that works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19182	Before I give my word, which he asked for, to the esteemed Minister Sadović, I want to remind you all, it means that we are not discussing the Security Information for 2007 and the other information, we have already discussed this. I would like to remind you that in the context of this debate, we have had very many proposals for conclusions on this information. I would also like to remind you that, on the basis of this, we have asked our Joint Defence and Security Committee, which is the relevant committee, that after the debate, after considering all our discussions and all the proposals for conclusions offer us a proposal for conclusions. And we here today have offered nine conclusions, the result of our conclusion. So that's what we're discussing... that we're not reopening the debate about the state of security, the structure, this, that, etc. So we've already discussed this. So today we are only discussing the proposal for these conclusions proposed by the Joint Commission, and that is the point of the agenda. The word has a respected minister. And here, before, I apologize, dear representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19183	Very briefly on the trail of what you said, Mr. Chairman. In some ways, it is acceptable to warn fellow Sokolović that we should have the position of the Council of Ministers or ministries on these conclusions, to which extent it is respected or not appreciated to come up with some common... story and then could possibly be discussed on the basis of it to do so together...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19184	Thank you. 46 There are no more MPs reported, and the word has been given by the honourable minister, Mr Tarik Sadović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19185	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs, I have this proposal for a conclusion which, on the proposal, therefore, the Joint Defence and Security Commission, and on the debate on the Security Information for 2007 has been delivered... Representative's home for... adoption. I want to make it very clear here that the aim of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers' and all serious and responsible people, is to improve the overall security situation in BiH. So that's our common goal, and in that sense I understand all the efforts... of MPs, MPs, who go towards that goal. Believe me, it's my goal, too, and that's my goal. However, what some colleagues have already said in their discussions is that there is a significant difference between what the conclusions essentially entail and what we really have prescribed as the responsibility of the Ministry of Security. So I want to point out once again that certain things are simply inconclusive by the Ministry of Security, so if you want the Council of Ministers as a whole, if this is the way to make the conclusions. Please conclude the first is said - the overall security situation in the country. The overall security situation is cared for by at least 15 police agencies, including the Intelligence Service and a number of other government segments where numerous competencies are distributed or overlapped. So, look, the particular question is, How can we affect judicial activities? as it stands in the conclusion. On the other hand, if clear operators of activities and deadlines are determined, then you must specify, say, a certain obligation to the cantonal police, the Brcko District police, entity police, I don't know, intelligence. At the same time, you know you can't order them. You can, I can set deadlines and you can set deadlines with me whatever we want, but if something isn't in our jurisdiction, then that in terms of implementation becomes a problem. Here's to that lead, so... I'd like... one more degree of mutual understanding and don't talk... me and you in one language and another. So the common goal exists in that sense. Mr. Huskić's proposal seems very reasonable. So let's make one joint committee that will be representatives of Parliament, where it will be representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, if other representatives from other levels of security care should be established at the level of the country's list of security priorities. And let's say, that's where we're going to invest all the resources we have, to improve the situation in those segments. I absolutely agree with that, and I support it. And it's a little hard just to tell one man or one ministry: here are the safety priorities. ... On the other hand, in conclusion 2, it is also said: The Ministry is asked to update and justify the addition of assessments and visions in information on the state of security based on discussions and proposals submitted under that agenda item. And this is a very different conclusion, and I'm entitled to tell you I don't know what in what sense appropriate activities should be taken, and what's my biggest problem, I'm asking you to help me out here. In conclusion, 3rd said: The new production methodology, whose basic content elements 47 are defined by the Security Policy document, should be applied when drawing up future security information. Here, I'm telling you openly, I don't really know what that means. I'm asking you to tell me what model reporting is, I'll apply it. So in this information, I've applied a new model. If that model isn't good, tell me what the model is, draw it for me. He doesn't have to today, he can... sit down some body. Tell me, you do it that way and that way, I'll do it. But it really does leave a very defined conclusion, as I would say, undefined space in which to do it. About one more thing, it's in conclusion 7. The second part of the conclusion is said: there is a need to remove perceived weaknesses in the legal regulations in the area of security at all. So this either involves full police reform or involves the engagement of various parliaments at various levels to remove perceived weaknesses in terms of legal regulations. Here to... once again say from this place. The law on... the control of the movement of arms and military equipment is in the parliamentary procedure, we have instructed it, it is one segment, therefore, improvements and this other Law on Weapons, which was created by the Interresor Working Group within the Ministry, is located in some kind of public debate and we are looking for the opinions of many entities in BiH. We will deliver it very quickly to the Council of Ministers, etc. I hope he gets to this parliament, I hope, because I'm not sure that I'm just talking about these competencies: If... let's face the problems that people say the question of weapons is not a matter of state level, then what should we do?- I'm sorry. Here, it was just some dilemmas. I'm asking you to understand me as, like, one desire to improve the situation in this sensitive area by being partners and trying to change the situation, but on real grounds where it will be known and specify the obligations of all entities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19186	Thank you. Dear Representative Novaković reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19187	Well, you see, some things are not clear to me now, we have discussed all these conclusions here in Parliament. So we gave all these conclusions to our commission. There was supposed to be a minister in this House, I can't remember right now, and I think it was when we discussed this information. It would be good if everything we heard here that the minister said on the Joint Commission. I believe that then the Joint Commission of ours would either not draw these conclusions or, with these conclusions, we would have a warning from the ministry that they were inconclusive. I am saying this because often our warnings from here that our work commission is not taken seriously, that is, the work of our committees is not taken seriously by a number of ministers from the Council of Ministers, here it now shows, in fact, on this example, how true it is and how much it is necessary to change the relationship with these committees of parliament. If it had been done so, we would not have opened the debate about this again today, because we had already done it once before, and because we had already discussed each conclusion. 48 What is little is indicative of the fact that the members of the Commission from that commission today also discuss differently the same conclusions that they supported on the Commission. So that's a little indicative. It would be good if at least the Commission, members of our commission from here, had a unique view of what to do with these conclusions now. It would be good if they had a unique attitude. I think these conclusions are proposed not in a way, and I'd like to be corrected, not in a way that we dictate our tasks here, so now someone needs to draw the conclusion that we're going to make a working group, so let's define what the priorities are, so we're going to go into reform, and I don't know either. So these are some findings from which the Council of Ministers will draw what is in its jurisdiction, which is not, will send a conclusion to parliaments, we cannot order anyone at cantonal or entity level, they can be familiar with our conclusions, they can also carry out some coordinations. After all, we have coordination bodies established by these new... police structure laws. So it's possible that we can find space out here somewhere not to have this kind of discussion right now, here's nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19188	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda: Ad. 11. Proposal for a conclusion of the Transport and Communications Committee in the context of a discussion on the business of the Public TV Service of BiH and measures to overcome the state of play of the audit reports on the financial operation of the BiH Public TV Service for 2005 and 2006 I remind you that we also discussed the problem of the Public TV Service at the House, as well as that at the 8th joint session of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly we held a full discussion on the business of the Public TV Service of BiH and the measures to overcome the situation established by the audit reports on the financial operation of the BiH Public TV Service for 2005 and 2006. A number of conclusions have been proposed at the joint session, and it is up to the relevant Committee on Transport and Communications to consider all the conclusions proposed in the debate and sublime them in a single proposal for conclusions that Parliament's homes would consider and adopt. On 23 May, the Committee of the Transport and Communications House delivered conclusions that were unanimously adopted by the Commission after a comprehensive debate, as it stands on the basis of the submission. You have received a proposal of conclusions contained in eight points. In addition to these conclusions in eight points, the Commission has established and adopted two other conclusions, which it also proposes to the House for adoption. I hope you have this line of conclusions in front of you. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Dokić. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19190	Mr. Chairman, if I may, I would like a few... preliminary notes before the other MPs take part in the discussion and these conclusions. First, I should point out that at the very beginning of the session, we had two or three of them, and we decided that we would discuss those conclusions, which are in line with the agenda that you, Mr. Chairman, have read, I would not repeat. I stress this because there were conclusions that were beyond the context of the agenda. So we haven't even made such conclusions. Secondly, these two conclusions that you mentioned earlier, they were not explicitly in this form or similar form proposed by the MPs, but both of these things contained here were subject to the discussion of many MPs. And so, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to comment on those two. So, there were a lot of stories about the corporation and the things that corporations should do, so the first of those two conclusions that we have drawn from the discussion is that BHRTV of the Public TV System BiH, so all three services, in accordance with Articles 12 and 29. The Law on the Public TV System of BiH defines the organisational and technological and production role of organisational units in Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Mostar, and the number of employees in each of them. You don't need to be mentioned and reminded of how many there are and about the number of employees and how they will be and where there will be a lot of discussions without... foundation. So we're now giving them, if we adopt this conclusion, that here are all three services, i.e. the System Management Board is seriously discussing this issue and tomorrow when other conditions for corporate creation are met, here are one question that is defined to this extent or to that extent. And secondly, I would say also very important and so much about this thing has been discussed both at a special session of our home and at a session of both homes, and it refers to marketing. And this is one of the biggest remarks of the audit committee that marketing services are not done in a legally defined way, and that is why we here said that by the end of June 2008 they should adopt documents for the protection of public services... from unregulated and monopolistic relations on the marketing market in BiH and that the Board of Directors of BHRT informs the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives no later than half of July 2008. Since we adopt this conclusion with a certain delay, here's almost a month from the time we adopted them, it might be good now to move these deadlines, because by the time they do, I don't know if in 15 days or 10 days, less than 10 days they'll do these things. The other conclusions were drawn from those conclusions, numerous conclusions which were proposed, therefore, not in the original sense, but we sublimed and tried to find solutions that could be accepted from... this home. As some conclusion as to what I might... say and recommend. I think these conclusions put us in one active position towards the Public TV Service. With these conclusions, we have in some way not amnested what happened in the past and from the period when the international community and its authorities or experts, however you will manage, manage and etc., for the first time this year Parliament has debated this matter and therefore we felt it would not be good to now make bigger cuts on this issue, but to also give the board of directors and management a chance to do what they have to do or what they had to do. As you could conclude 50, we are leaving their obligation to implement all the measures that have been suggested by the audit team and we are asking them to inform us in two months and about what they have done and the effects they have done. And not to mention the other measures we're suggesting here to be done and to make a commitment to be done, there's no suggestion. I think Parliament's conclusions are their obligations, and once we get their report back, we'll be open here, then we can discuss both the responsibility and the Management Board and the management of BHRTV. Are they capable or incapable of doing that job that this parliament gave them? I particularly point out this because I spoke with some MPs before this session in terms of whether we should have sought more radical measures towards leadership if they were unable to do business or not. So we haven't amnested them from that responsibility, we've put us in an active position to give them a chance to explicitly look for what it is they have to do. If they are unable to do so, then we have a chance to resolve this issue in the next debate. I'd turn here. On the other hand, in two places through these conclusions, we clearly support and support, so we are giving support and looking for ways to help the Public TV system as a whole, not just the service. And that's primarily related to the satellite program. It's a clear message from this. If it isn't, I want to repeat it: all three public services should be on the satellite. So nothing's cool, all three public services. I can say that the Ministry is also in agreement and that BHRTV's leadership is compatible with it, because they haven't used 50% of the time paid for the lease, and these two entity televisions have the opportunity to fill out the programme. I'd say it's almost a deal, and with this conclusion, we're putting them in a position to be mandatory. There is another... one conclusion that points to the readiness of BiH institutions; when we say BiH institutions, we think of all institutions in BiH, it is a precise conclusion. To help with technological and technical equipment, i.e. reconstruction, and above all when it comes to digital broadcasting, broadcasting of programme transmissions. So we have here invited all BiH institutions in charge of this issue to engage in one or another way to help. And one more thing I'd like to underline is that it's very important. In the phase of preparations for the establishment of the corporation, BHRT is required here to urgently implement internal financial, technological, human and programme reforms, in line with the restructuring plan. The restructuring plan is, I want to remind you, the BBC's radio expert team, it's been done for a few years, it's supposed to be a commitment for everyone. That was the agreement at the beginning when it was accepted that they were working on the plan, you well know that BHRTV, meaning this channel for the whole of BiH, did not implement the measures. Therefore, we ask that these measures be implemented in accordance with the Law on Public TV Service and other options available to them, in accordance with the standards and recommendations of the European Commission, or the Council of Europe, which treats this issue. Here, that would be if it was for help, for decision-making.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19191	I thank the honourable representative Dokić for the very comprehensive explanation of the proposal for conclusions. And the word was signed up by distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19192	So, I'm not going to talk at all, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, about the content of these conclusions, and I think it's unanimous on the Commission and I think we've had a debate once. I just want to draw attention to one thing that seems to me, anyway, that it's as a result of a technical failure, and it's actually a very important thing and let those who write these conclusions take care of this. Here in Conclusion 2, it is said: To exercise the right to inform the public equally, and now says, in the languages of all three constituent peoples in BiH, in line with international acts, etc. Don't do this like this. So, apart from the constituent peoples, the rest of them live in BiH, also live citizens. So BiH is one colorful society and don't let us insult anyone with our conclusions. There are languages in official use in BiH, Bosnian, Serbian, Croatian. And let, instead of these words, be written here in the conclusions: in the languages of official use in BiH. That is enough for me, you can also write the names of those languages: Bosnian, Serbian, Croatian. Because we have to keep an eye on the documents we adopt so that we don't hurt anyone in BiH with our documents. I don't believe this was the intention of the Commission or whoever wrote it, but let them take care of these things, somebody's going to read this sometime.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19193	Thank you. The word came from the esteemed representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19194	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I would like to acknowledge to the Transport and Communication Commission that in a number of several hours of debates on the position, on the position of the Public TV Service, or the system, and all that this debate, which has led to, find one, as one form of synthesis, to say, this block of conclusions that is ahead of us. I, believing that it was just a technical failure, might return a little more to the chairman of the Commission, not to mention, of course, the introductory word, which he gave, and with most discussions, and with which I agree, but something has happened a little in the meantime since the Commission adopted these conclusions, which brings us into a new position. So here, colleague Dokić, in conclusion number 1 says: The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly has been informed of the content of the document The status and plan of the consolidation of BHRT's operations and is in charge of the Management Board to deliver in the third quarter to the Parliamentary Assembly etc. I'm just going to remind you that the consolidation plan as a key position envisioned a correction, i.e. a harmonisation of the RTT fee. The Commission adopted these conclusions on 21 May, and we received a copy of the letter from the Communications Regulatory Agency on 9 June, in response to the Management 52 Committee of the Public TV System, in response to the request for an increase in the TV fee, which says no conditions have yet been obtained/conditions for increasing the RTV tax. And here I am now asking that we do not come to a position that after eight or nine months of borrowing this conclusion we do not realize that because of what has not been fulfilled and not dependent on this Parliament, someone is responding in BHRT. I would suggest to the Commission to rephrase this conclusion, given this very new fact, i.e. information by the Regulatory Agency for Communications. I remind you, the Commission didn't even consider this because this was a June 9th letter, and the conclusions came from May 21st. So, I would suggest that the conclusion number one be rephrased. I fully agree with my colleague Džaferović's suggestion; in Conclusion 2 I suggest using the usual structure used in all our official acts when it comes to languages in use in BiH. I'm assuming that in Conclusion number four, the mistake was clouded. Because it is said this: the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers to continue paying for satellite rentals and to provide intervention funds for the needs of the Public TV, writes systems here, and based on membership in international associations. I guess this is about the Public TV service, besides, we're dealing with it, and the system is also made up of three public services plus corporations, which are not yet available. The corporation won't go on satellite once it's formed. Neither are entity public services in international associations. So, just maybe some other formulation. Given, of course, what we heard in the opening explanation of fellow Dokić. Furthermore, conclusion number 6 says: The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly gives full support to technical and technological restoration, and again stands the Public TV Service and invites institutions to help the process of switching from analogue to digital television. I'm also assuming it's a public tv service, not a system, because the corporation won't go from analogue to digital television. I, am I, colleague Dokić, I guess these are technical mistakes... or then you need some other formulation than this one, right? The seventh point, i.e. the seventh conclusion, says: The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly asks the Management Board of the Public TV System... There are no more boards of directors of the Public TV System, but one Management Board, but there are several boards of public broadcasters. So then – I guess it's just a system-service error again – if it's a service, then just to correct this. And I, of course, am a little funny right now, because I and my colleague Dokić, when we talk about the public broadcaster sector, that's how I communicate. In an additional two conclusions, conclusion number 1 says: Next to meet the establishment of a corporation, the boards of directors are in charge. I'm just asking which direction is this establishment going to come from, so we're going to meet? The Parliamentary Assembly is to assign the Management Board of the Public TV System to join the establishment of a corporation! Because I think this formula 'going to meet the establishment' as if it would come from somewhere alone, and I personally appreciate that maybe some formulation... would be better, right?' So, let's put in charge of the Public TV System Management Board, if I have to, I think, just remind the Public TV System Management Board that it's his legal obligation. But here's to task him to take all the activities in carrying out the legal obligation to establish a public broadcaster corporation. And then, of course, this conclusion that follows. 53 I Conclusion No. 2. I listened with attention to my colleague Dokić and I do not understand anything when you spoke about documents to protect against unregulated and monopolistic relations on the marketing market in BiH. It's a service market. I appreciate that we have many segments of all markets, all of the components of the market economy still unregulated, so I agree, but...we have the Competition Act and the law is regulated among other anti-monopoly behaviour. I'm not sure if we have both the law and the institutions involved that the boards of directors can adopt the documents of this kind. I mean, not that I'm not sure, but I'm sure I can't. But I also know that both the boards and the management, the management institution whenever competition is violated, or competition rules, or when there are monopoly behaviours in accordance with the Competition Act, in accordance with acts of conduct, or the functioning of the Competition Council in BiH, can address the relevant institutions and draw up appropriate moves. And in that sense, I would suggest that this be re-designed because, in that case, this parliament would give power from the area of the legislative authority to the Management Board of the Public TV System. So please just think, nothing would change the idea of what you wanted to achieve in this formulation, but we would be on the ground of the framework that the Parliamentary Assembly can give... The board of directors. So, I am now on this basis – of course these are corrections that can be made in two minutes – but with special attention I want to draw attention to what happened in the meantime since the Commission made these conclusions and what the Regulatory Agency has made as a decision, and what can be important in determining the course of all this regarding other conclusions. Well, I don't think it would be a bad idea for the Commission to make adjustments to this kind before voting. I think you can do it in a few minutes. Maybe just in terms of some transformation of the conclusions that would lead us to the field. Otherwise, I repeat again, in the end, with full respect and the Commission's efforts to get out of a lot of those discussions, I really don't know how you managed to single out and make a synthesis like this that could lead to, among other things, and the ultimate outcome of adopting conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19195	Thank you, too. Before, you wait, so there might be more suggestions. Dear Representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19196	Dear colleagues, listening to my colleague Azra now, I'm not sure we'll make an easy deal on these conclusions. I'll try to be brief. With full respect for the work of the Commission and for what it intended, I think that some things have been prejudged when it comes to obligations before certain measures and activities are implemented to see what they will do. As far as I know that certain control bodies and financial institutions are doing their job when it comes to the public service of BHRT and that it would be good to wait to see how these things stand. Because, let's say, when it comes to conclusion number four where it is requested: To interveningly provide funds for the needs of the Public TV system of BiH based on membership in international associations, 54 refers to the payment of the rent of the satalite. For example, it would be interesting to see if the Commission could answer how BHRT stands commercially and how it is possible that a smaller local television has more sold cards in the diaspora, several times more than BHRT. Who does this program go to, how does it happen, and what have these people done to get those funds or how they already have it? I don't think we're in a situation anymore in BiH that any bag without a bottom is kind of tolerated and we don't have any prior information on what's going on. If, if the intention of going out on a satellite is what it is, it's all commercialized, it's all kind of paid, let's see how, and we can easily compare it to the other BiH broadcasters who have managed to do it in a domestic way and have a far better score than these. And if someone doesn't want to do housework, they don't want to do it, and on some other basis they ask that every time the state pays, I'm not sure that that was our goal when we get into this, then I think it's unacceptable. But here, I'd like to make a decision on this conclusion, I'd like to get some information on what's going on, what's going on and on and on, and how's it been done? Also, about Conclusion 6 that says, or 8. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requires the Governing Board and the management of BHRT's emergency internal financial, technological, human and programme reforms, in accordance with the Restructure Plan, the Law on Public TV Service of BiH and other available opportunities, in accordance with EU standards, to prepare BHRT for establishment. One of the conclusions that could, let's say, be more clear is that: the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly requires the Management Board and the management of BHRT's emergency internal and financial, technological, human and programme reforms to be implemented before the establishment of the Public TV Service Corporation, in line with the 2004 Restructure Plan, the Law on Public TV Service of BiH and other opportunities available, in line with EU standards and recommendations. The fact is that someone doesn't want to carry out their duties and do their part of the job and wants to skip it, and that's impossible. It's impossible, and maybe we're in a situation and that if the way out of this is to launch an initiative to amend the Law on the Public TV System and the Public Service BHRT which might redefine the position of this corporation and maybe we'd avoid all these possible debates over certain things. To be clear, at a time when these regulations were passed and what time after that had done, it led us to a different situation and we probably have a different view of this problem than it was back then. And maybe we should sit down first and see how that thing is and then solve all these dilemmas that we have different opinions about today, and maybe, right, and that's the way out, so the legal definition of these institutions, maybe we'll get to a situation where we won't have this many dilemmas and we won't have different demands. I think it is really incorrect to avoid the story of entering this corporation without completing the work of obligations that one has completed, which the other will not finish, and in particular to decide on the proposals for conclusions that speak about moves for the future, and that we do not have this entry situation as these people there complete what we have given them, what was an observation and the public to a situation that can be very easy to resolve with one household business and a fair relationship with everyone in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19197	Thank you. 55 Pauses until 14:40. [[PAUZA]] We're at the limit of the quorum. Before we continue to work, I want to ask you, and I think it's in the interest of all of us, to respect the deadlines, even if we set ourselves, which are like this, I have to say, the benign nature, like the break. If it's half an hour, it's half an hour. Follow, follow as I do, every break lasts for at least half an hour than we determine, when we determine it. So here's to being correct to each other. A distinguished representative, Dokić, has applied for this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19199	I'm supposed to answer all those questions right now, which I may have forgotten; it's that I have a big head, but it leaks out of it. Here's a very short one. What Mr Džaferović is, I won't say the problem, suggested, here's what I'm saying is that this formulation is from the conclusions proposed by certain MPs, and here I want to remind them that in Article 26. The Law on Public Television Service or System is now irrelevant, using such formulations: that the public service programme will respect national, regional, traditional, religious, cultural, language and other characteristics of the constituent peoples. So that language is also mentioned here in the context of the constituent peoples. I don't think I mind if it was, but it doesn't change anything at all, I'm saying, and it's the legal matter you've been considering, Mr. Džaferović. You were even the chairman, I think, when this law... was passed. I think it would be a good idea if we weren't divorcing these conclusions that were proposed today. As far as I am concerned as the President of the Commission, I have consulted with some members of the Commission: every delay and creation of some new positions, I think it is to the detriment of this whole atmosphere that is being created, and in the sense that the chances and assumptions are being created that the public service is doing what must be done. In this context, I am a priori against that we now, after more than a month and a half of what we have discussed on these issues, react in conclusion to the RAC's decision on a matter. It doesn't matter what question. I just want to say that in these conclusions we must not go beyond the context, we should not have gone beyond the context of what was at the debate, and in particular take some new events. I mean, here and in conclusion, we're asking that in two months we have a review of what they've done according to the audit report, what these effects are now and what they'll have in the future, and that's an opportunity to discuss then, to define ourselves according to the board's request to increase the tv tax. Furthermore, I would say that this part that refers to an unsettled monopolitical relationship: this is not about competition at all, and we had no intention at all to take over and ask questions about any law that exists in this area. We ask leadership to make decisions under the existing law that will protect public service, so they themselves with their own additional decisions of monopoly, not competition. Should I remind you that 56 here is highlighted both by the Director and by the Chairman of the Management Board that 75% of the commissions are taken by some agencies and which have been subscribed to the minority to work on this marketing market. So it's not about competition, it's about preventing monopolies, and they need to do it, and I think this is one of the good positive conclusions. There is no error in this text when mentioning it in two places, not a service, so it is not an error. I did a little comment on it in the opening part, and I said that this suggestion creates an assumption that the Public TV service gives part of the time it doesn't use anyway, because you had a black line over the screen when you find yourself on the BHRTV satellite and entity broadcasters to use that lease as rationally as possible. And in that context, the director is also in agreement, and the minister is in agreement. So, I would like to remind you that the Council of Ministers has made a decision that the surplus funds, which are being made by the RAC, are being allocated to the area of promotion of telecommunications, as it is in accordance with the Communication Act, and that this job will be done by the Ministry of Communications and Transport. So, and those funds are a lot more than this. In this context is also the second part of the conclusion where it is said that payment is also recommended, as is called, these memberships, members of memberships, and this applies to all three broadcasters. Because both of them and each other have appropriate memberships and they are complemented there and I think it's very correct that they are in the same position, in the same position. And it's really a mistake at point 7, here it's said to be asked by boards of directors, not boards of directors, but by the board of directors of the system, and the board of directors of the system make up all the boards of services, so it wouldn't be a mistake if it were like this, but it's really a mistake here, so it's from the board of directors of the system. And my colleague Azra asked what this meant in the meeting. Another expression could be used, but it is not inadequate. The moment we reached these conclusions and there was a debate at Parliament, you know that the federal law on the Public TV System/Federation Service was still in the Constitutional Court. Now the court has made a decision, she's not yet important, that decision, as far as I know, I'm allowing me to make a mistake. When this decision is made in full, then assumptions were made legally to form this corporation. So in that context, we're talking about going to meet, assuming that assumptions and conditions will be created to form a corporation, but before that, here we're asking for this to be done. We asked for this to be done, because you know there's been a lot of controversy and in these discussions, here's what with 700 people, who they're going to belong to, where they're going to belong. Now, there's a chance for them before we go into that business to see how they do it. So we're looking in both human resources and organisational, and technologically, to define these three centres that need to be formed after the establishment of the corporation, so three centres: one in Sarajevo, one in Mostar, one in Banja Luka. Here, that would be, I think, the answer to all these questions. Yeah, and for counterpart Kalabić, for this part when he talks about corporations. As far as I'm concerned, I don't mind that formulation he made, but I don't see any big difference between that formulation and this one. I have to admit, she's more explicit, but this formula assumes that, too. Watch out, the corporation is formed by three legal entities. There's a clean bill going into the corporation. It's certainly not going to be someone who's mortgaged,...if he's mortgaged, he can even enter a corporation with someone who doesn't have any of those problems without talking about debts and stuff. 57 So this conclusion directly points to the need for this internal reform needed to happen so that tomorrow we could really make a corporation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19200	Thank you. Business intervention: esteemed representative Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19201	Thank you, Chairman. You see, it would be good to stick to a rational form. We had a very extensive discussion when we discussed the RT system, or BHT 1 service. And now we have, therefore, after this rich debate, a lot of conclusions have been drawn. This is the task of the Commission in the debate, as has been the case for this series of other conclusions, to make concrete conclusions that threatened the debate there. In my opinion, it would be rational to only intervene the amendment text of a certain part of the conclusions. Otherwise, we repeat the debate. I didn't get... If we want to do it again, then we're going to get involved, and we're going to rebuild the debate, and we're going to conclude that we need to re-engage. So, where are we going? So, I would ask you, the chairman, to discuss further the issue of this... just a concrete amendment to say in which section we disagree with some conclusion and what we propose to fix. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19202	I thank you for this intervention. I can only repeat that I agree with what you said. And I think that today we have ignored the name of the agenda point and what we are even discussing and that we have reopened the debate on the state of the Public TV system and service. I don't think that's on the agenda, but I believe you know that's not on the agenda. So I'd really like to appeal that we stick to the agenda, so respecting the fact that we've discussed this a lot, that we've had a lot of suggestions, that we've asked our committee to conclude that it's trying to do something that can be acceptable, which can be accepted here in the House. And they made the effort and did it. And we're contesting it now. We can accept these conclusions today, and we can reject them. So let's focus on that, if there is a need to explain why we should accept, why we should reject conclusions, that in that sense we are discussing until the end of this agenda point and, at the time of the statement, we will all have the opportunity to determine whether or not we will accept these conclusions or some of them. The next reported for the debate is the Honorable Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović, and after him, prepare the distinguished representative Velimir Jukić. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19203	Dear President, colleagues, fellow representatives, distinguished guests, respecting all that you have just said, we cannot, in fact, touch a wider subject, so that, in fact, the meaning of what we want to say, we can describe the right words. The Commission has made efforts and reached certain conclusions, but obviously it is not close enough to solve the problem, i.e. that the founder who has very clear responsibilities, which is that when he establishes something, appoints organs and provides funds, does not do his part of the job. And here it is evident that the Parliamentary Assembly as the founder, except that it has appointed the authorities, does not adequately do its part of the work, i.e. does not provide resources so that what she started could work at all. She left employees with unpaid salaries, unpaid taxes and contributions. I think, as founder, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, what message we send to other founders in other economic entities in BiH, how the law is implemented, when we have left what we set up without resources and there we have transparent unpaid contributions, unpaid wages, etc. I think it's a very ugly message and that we shouldn't do it, but that we need to secure resources and that the authorities appointed with these resources do the job in the way that we have to do it, or, if we're not satisfied with the organs, then to change the organs, name those who can do it. In particular, this refers to a parliamentary majority that should not allow a very ugly impression of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly with the inability to solve a very simple problem. So, when you've established something, you've appointed organs, you've secured resources, and right now it's the right security of resources to secure funds so that they can meet the obligations they have and that they can work normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19204	Thank you. Honorable representative Jukić, and let the distinguished representative Nanić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19205	Here, Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, so I would not want to fall into the trap of some of my colleagues to say, turn this into a repeat debate, but to rely on only conclusions. So I'm going to say this: my opinion is that the proposed conclusions do not reflect the real situation in the TV service and the BiH system. The situation is much more difficult and I believe that what is proposed in the conclusions will not help, that is, not the solution to the problem in this house, or this system. That's why I think I'm going to offer one of my conclusions, as I have suggested, which is to access the new law in the TV service and the system, which will, of course, take into account the existing situation and the problem that has arisen in the last two years and something since the laws that are in force today, because they are one of them, I will say, and have made a significant contribution to creating such a bad situation in the RTV service, system and public services in BiH. 59 So, without more radical measures and steps, there is no successful and quality solution to the current situation, and in particular there is no good and real perspective of the future of the RTV system and public service as we wish. And that's why I think that these conclusions should not be adopted today, because we're not going to achieve anything with them, and that we should go again with different conclusions, I've already said on what trail and that it's the only way we can solve this situation that it is. And Mr. Dokić, who served as minister in the past term, well knows the situation and has elaborated it quite well. And it's really a question of how some of the current issues and problems will be resolved in the next period. These years and something we've been saying is that the main problem is the adoption of the Federal TV Service Act. That's settled, but I'm afraid that's been solved almost nothing, because what's most important isn't solved. And this is unresolved relations within the corporation, unresolved relations between public TV services, large and very significant due diligences that are measured and tens of millions of marks in public tv sevis and, in particular, what is most important, the quality before us does not correspond to the currently available resources that we have available, material and human. And that is why I think that one law, as is ours, which does not foresee the existence of a programming council, which exists in almost all other public services in the environment – this programme council has at least 20 people, perhaps more, there are representatives of all layers of society from pensioners, scientists, unions, employees, employers, cultural workers, etc. who then, in a very high-quality way, discuss each and every one of them from their point of view about the programme, the programme content and its shortcomings, the quality of it, propose how to improve it, improve it to be what citizens in this country, or anywhere where the broadcaster operates, expect. Here, I'm not going to repeat everything, I don't think the conclusions are a solution and that we should go with significantly different conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19206	I thank the esteemed representative Jukić. The word has a distinguished representative, Nanić, and I no longer have any more applications.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19207	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I want, as a member of the Commission, to really confirm the views that the Commission chair has said about these conclusions, and I want only three facts, respecting the time of our day with which we are working, that we had the first debate at the House of Representatives on the situation in the system, that we were after that, and we had the conclusions that the Commission had received to draw possible, and after that, we had a debate at the joint session and we had 20-30 conclusions again, and the Commission was tasked with seeing the conclusions and offering possible conclusions that reflect the situation after the debate. And the third thing, the terms used in these conclusions are the terms, as far as I know – and I had certain dilemmas – used by existing regulations and are thus embedded here in these conclusions. 60 In that sense, I would suggest that these proposals, which have been made by MPs, certain additions, amendments, etc., be delivered in writing until they have made their views known to these conclusions, possibly so that they may be made known, so that they can be made known today about these conclusions, along with a recommendation, I would really ask my colleagues not to go back to the Commission, because I really... I think there are a lot more stories about these conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19208	I thank the esteemed representative, Nanić. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. I'm going to the 12th point, Ad. 12. Proposal for the conclusion of Honorable Representative Sadik Ahmetović Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović suggested that the House adopt the conclusion of the following content: The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly tasks the Council of Ministers to hold an emergency session, with the aim of considering the requirements of decertified police officers and to inform this house. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. He has a respected representative, Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19210	First of all, let me remind you that there is no proposal. I expected, and especially with respect to what Minister Sadović said today, I would like the motionary to make a statement... on what the minister said here and see where we are. I fully understood the matter, and therefore we were restrained about the decision to put this on the agenda, and I would like to see whether Minister Sadović's statements suggest otherwise.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19211	Thank you. The following has been reported by the honourable representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19212	First of all, there won't be any need for me, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, to get up and say what I'm about to say. So, Mr Ahmetović asked me that since he has some obligations, he went outside the session, the agenda point where we now come to, and that he should not be here in the O.R., then, if there is a need, I say... a few words instead of him as a proposer of this conclusion. 61 No matter what we have today had the opportunity to hear here in this room, we all know objectively that we have a problem in BiH and what is least we can do is an emergency session of the Council of Ministers and a review of the requirements of de-certified police officers. And I think it's okay and that today, in that direction, it should be decided by the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19213	Thank you. Dear Representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19214	... sorry there's no one here from the Council of Ministers right now, but I, as far as I know, at least from the media that I could read that the Council of Ministers has considered this issue several times. Therefore, the Council of Ministers had, could have and had in mind and had a presidential statement, had also taken into account statements concerning that statement, etc. I really don't see what it means to call a new emergency meeting of the Council of Ministers and to discuss what the Council of Ministers has discussed several times and, on the basis of these discussions, proposed a law that was on the agenda today. I would like the proposer of this agenda to make it quite clear: What does the Council of Ministers expect? So, what is it that he expects the Council of Ministers to bring to that emergency session? Well, if that makes sense, then I'm in favour of discussing it, if it doesn't make sense, or if there's no idea, or if it's no suggestion, but this is suggested just so that, here we can say that we've given attention to those people who strike hunger there, then, then I'm not for it, so... this way at all... that's what we pay attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19215	Thank you. The next is Remzija Kadrić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19216	I thank you, Chairman. This is on the trail of what Ambassador Novaković was saying. To be extremely open here,... indeed, slightly incorrectly to these people, to be extremely open, it is incorrect to give people and some promises, some false hopes, proposing this sort of conclusion, transferring the story, responsibility from one to the other, the appointment of an emergency session of this Council of Ministers, which, I have information, several times, has really discussed, for years, discussed this subject and... on the same issue here. Indeed, the Commission had to come up with some information several times, having the international community's position involved in solving this problem. He's got their attitude, he's got the OHR's position on this issue, who's what in the next steps he's in charge of doing. The Council of Ministers has, as far as I am informed, completed its story on this issue. 62 Therefore, now to give people some false hope through initiatives, conclusions, how the Council of Ministers should schedule an emergency session and deal with it, and so far on this matter a hundred times, I really think it is incorrect for those people who... are going there. They really need those in charge now, those in charge of these further steps according to that statement, a presidential statement, to do the job urgently and to agree with the OHR which is not agreed to solve the issue, not to move this ball from one to the other.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19217	Thank you. No more reports. He has a respected representative, Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19218	Here, I apologize for calling again. I was waiting for some sort of explanation, I didn't get it, because I expected this to be withdrawn. After an explanation given by Minister Sadović and what was said, I expected it to be withdrawn in this way, that something else would eventually be proposed. If I understood correctly the fact that the Council of Ministers through this law gave its opinion on this problem, and the one who visited the police should have said that there was a possibility of a solution here. They had every opportunity to submit amendments and act in that direction. The Council of Ministers said both Minister Sadović and exhausted as far as the Council of Ministers is concerned. Both the Commission and anyone else can submit amendments to this law and try to resolve if I have properly interpreted the demands of the people who are protesting there. That's how you get rid of it. Any story that at an emergency or any meeting of the Council of Ministers, anything else will be offered, would be degutantly, I think, and incorrectly. If the people of the Council of Ministers who are directly carrying this problem have expressed their position, I have not heard anything new that would indicate that we are going in that direction, it would be unquestionable for us to do so. But it's not, it's not like that. This law is crucial to their problem. If I understand correctly that they are looking in the direction, they are looking for what is now missing in this law, and there are no amendments to this law that would allow their demands to be met and then it is incorrect for these people to tell another story that something else is going to be solved.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19219	Thank you. Dear Representative Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19220	So I don't see what's wrong, people are starving and they're really in bad shape, it's not fixed: hunger strike. So, for those who are sure, their human rights must be in danger and these people are mostly right, they're looking for something where they have the right and in such a dramatic way they're looking for it. What else can we do than request an emergency session of the Council of Ministers? These are police officers, but it's not to solve their problem, nor can the Ministry of Security help them much. It is the Ministry of Human Rights, and it has not been properly addressed by this problem so far, nor has it done a valid analysis so far, nor is it a proposal based on such a good analysis. Therefore, this is not a political thing to do, 63 is to seek an emergency session of the Council of Ministers, primarily the Minister of Human Rights. So I suggest you support Mr Sadik Ahmetović's proposal and that this session be held as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19221	The following has been reported by the esteemed second Vice-President Dr. Milorad Živković. Excuse me! Replica, the first respected representative of Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19222	Look, Mr Ahmetović is the president of the Human Rights Commission. Yesterday, along with him, he was visited by counterpart Alajbegović, who is also a member of the Human Rights Commission. I think it was perfectly logical for the Human Rights Commission to consider this issue, so that Mr Ahmetović would propose on behalf of the Commission. He did this solo, knowing he couldn't do anything. And the replica to Mr. Izetbegović. The only ministry that has done anything on this plan so far is the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19223	Replica: Honorable representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19224	Well, I haven't heard from Mr. Izetbegović again: What does the proposer want done? So, I don't understand what the proposer is asking to do, what order does he expect to be done for these people? If I knew that, I could get involved in a discussion about who should do it. But I think it is incorrect to come to Parliament with an initiative, not to say what needs to be done for these people and in whom it has been shown that it can do so and possibly not. So, what is it if people were? Here was counterpart Ahmetović, I guess he heard the demands and what he thinks when he submitted that initiative, when he started, what he thinks we should do specifically for those people,... because we also have a situation to misread the demands of these people. I don't want to fall into that trap, nor do I think of being their... interpreter, but I expect someone to say what they're looking for and what whoever's proposing thinks we should do and who should do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19225	Replication response: the esteemed representative Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19226	What's the replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19227	The other one's gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19228	...it would be good if the Commission suggested what you say. Mr. Kalabić, I agree, I told Ahmetović this morning, it would be good if we had been suggested, they didn't. But now 64 they're asking whoever's more relevant to make suggestions. Who has a better position to suggest something too much how to resolve the situation. I did read the material made by the Human Rights Department on this issue. And right to tell you I didn't see that they found a solution and that something specifically helped these cops. So when you say, my colleague, that they are something, that they are the only ones who have done something, tell us, "What have they done?" I read all that material, and all I could find was a story about the whole case's genesis. I didn't see them hinting at getting out of the situation, so maybe you could tell us, "What exactly did they do?"
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19229	Please don't get up before you get your word. Do you need a replica? Thank you. The following has been registered for discussion by the esteemed second Vice-President Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19230	I thought I was talking a few introductory sentences about what is the purpose of an increasing number of requests to meet people who are in a difficult state, whether they are poor or poor socio-economic conditions or they are affected for some reason. I'm not going to talk about it being some kind of campaign pre-election, I mean, it would be a good idea to name those who should, in our opinion, be responsible for the situation we're discussing here. This conclusion would not be controversial, but it would be good to state in that conclusion the institution that needs to do everything you have talked about and Mr. Izetbegović, Mr. Huskić, Mr. Kalabić. So I suggest that this conclusion be modified a little bit and said: The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly tasks the Council of Ministers to hold an emergency session, with the aim of considering the requirements of decertified police officers and how to resolve these demands, and at the proposal of the Ministry of Security, inform this House. So we said the address that should suggest to the Council of Ministers the way that the issue should be resolved, and that the Council of Ministers informs this house about it and that we... stop transferring the ball from one to the other, talk about how... we don't understand what we are... talking about. A specific ministry, specifically looking for proposals, should the Council of Ministers be determined accordingly. Mr. Niko Lozančić, the chairman of the House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19231	Thank you, Mr. Živković. And you see, this proposal for a conclusion is one of the good examples of how we know what I hope it isn't; what the Vice-President tried to say all things, put in office a pre-election, post-election, I don't know what kind of campaigns I have either. 65 So this is one conclusion that I think is correct. I'll tell you why it's correct. We all know here, no matter how much we want someone else to explain it to us, quite enough information. We know that there are dozens of police officers in this country, we can come up with a name if we have to, but I think we know those who have been declassified, because they're a little more determined to deal with organised crime, so organized crime has shown them and us both that it's stronger than both of us and them, because it has ensured that they are removed and de-certified, that they are not allowed to behave in that capacity. And while we're doing it this way, this is encouraging such people, that means they can still do it, and those who are de-certified because they believe that what we're saying honestly, that we are in order to fight organised crime, they strike hunger today. Information another day from a few days ago, I accidentally came across that information, quite accidentally. A police officer at a police station in the conduct of his duty stops a vehicle where a local criminal goes, for which there is no police, and runs over a police officer, literally runs him over. And the police, normally, deprive him of his freedom, bring him to the D.A.'s office, normally the prosecutor says he doesn't deserve detention because there's time for a regular procedure. You can imagine the encouragement of that policeman and all the other cops to stop criminals on the road and what encouragement they have, and then when they starve, they try to warn us that it's time for their rights to be protected. I'm not saying that everyone who's been de-certified has been unwarrantedly de-certified. But I can't accept the fact that they're all justifiable. So, I can't, because I know specific cases, so that's what all Bosnian Herzegovina wrote about it, reported to the media, and I think we're well-informed. Now, if we say who is this institution that should finally be? We're the first ones here, as much as we didn't like it. And we don't have to know everything here, but that's why we have the ones we don't have here today, they're ours, here's ours, so that's why we have them. And they have experts within their ministries, and we don't have to be experts, but within the Ministries there must be experts, civil servants who are protected who have status etc. The ones we've increased our wages to these days, it's all fine. Well, they have to have answers and offer them to us. I don't think it's correct of us,...whatever was wrong with some of the other discussions that were conducted, we, in our opinion, are not correct to ask the MPs to offer a final solution, so we say – the institutions have dealt with many, have not given a solution, but as an individual, he should offer solutions. I don't think this is a matter that only one ministry in the Council of Ministers can deal with. So, the Department of Security! I'm even wondering if we should deal with this. Because it's not working here, the Department of Security is dealing with police officers who are being deployed in the border police, the SIPA, etc. today. Those who are not members of this ministry cannot be engaged. Today, we have a group of BiH citizens who were once police officers who complain that their fundamental human rights have been compromised. That, in my opinion, is the first ministry to be dealt with by the Ministry of Human Rights. I think it is correct of Mr Ahmetović that, as chairman of this committee of parliament for the protection of human rights, he illuminated our face, because in the name of Parliament, and respected colleague Alajbegović, he left... these are our people, our citizens who complain that their human rights have been threatened. Here, let's say we don't know if they are? But it's correct to see if they are. And to tell them plainly, they are one of you, one of you is not. Those who are, must be protected by human rights, those who are not alarmed, should be told: you are not threatened by human rights, and then you can complain to whoever you want, but are not threatened. But we can't put everything in the same basket. 66 In the Council of Ministers, there is also a Ministry of Justice which should be assessed from the aspect of the law whether certain regulations, norms, international conventions, etc. have been violated. to help your colleagues and the ministries others. And that is why I find it the most correct conclusion that no matter how imprecise it seems, it is the Council of Ministers. It is clear that every minister in the Council of Ministers will not make the same contribution to this issue, but as a man, as a professional, as a... official of this state can certainly contribute... so that we finally try to resolve this issue and I hope and resolve it within the BiH institutions. And I, in that sense, ask that... I have no objection to the precision of the additional, all the ministries in the Council of Ministers, but I think it's enough address if we say it's the Council of Ministers and that the Council of Ministers is finally, so it says openly to us and to them: we've done everything we can and we can't do anything else. And that's the answer for me. But don't play hide-and-seek with people who ask us to. In my opinion, and I will say very openly here, these people did not come before the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH or before the Council of Ministers and they are not protesting here. They don't think we endangered their human rights, so they don't mean it, they showed it. So they need someone to tell them. ... If we are, I also don't think we are, but we have to fight no matter who violated our citizens' human rights to stand up for human rights, no matter who, when, how and why. And that's why I think that this conclusion and this conclusion, no matter how much we may be affected, may be pointless because of our ineffectiveness often, but as long as we insist, there's a chance that we'll finally start to solve some of these issues. Thank you very much. Previously on AMC's "Administer Ekrem Ajanović":
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19232	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I think this home should go from story to deed. I don't think calling an emergency meeting of the Council of Ministers means anything, but I'm here to make us as the House of Radicals to solve this problem, which is to ask the Council of Ministers to return to their conclusions or legal acts that they can bring or transfer and direct to us so that we can get these officers back to their jobs. It is the only correct conclusion, and this is that they have the right to compete, it is known that they will never be accepted, because in four or five years there have been dramatic changes in that area. People have finished the police academy, so everywhere they'll have the advantage of these others, not them. And I'm up for a solution that will get those cops back to their jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19233	Thank you. Dear Representative Džaferović is reporting.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19234	The BiH Parliamentary Assembly has been running long for years, practically as this problem has arisen, dealt with this issue, and this is not a new issue in the BiH Parliament. Even the 67 commissions were formed and it was a permanent topic here for a time, and especially in the House of Representatives, and it would be interesting to give these materials to colleagues, to have colleagues see what was done about it. We, among other things, and the involvement of the Council of Ministers and Resort Ministries and the chairman of the Council of Ministers who went even to New York to the UN, have therefore come into this position to have this degree of resolution of this problem which is obviously not enough and therefore we have talked about it. And, of course, someone should move on now, so they have to run this process, someone has to work on these issues. People have been on hunger strike there for a few days, they're in a difficult situation, and we all know they've been dissipated. Some of them, then, for sure. And that is why this conclusion is that an emergency meeting of the Council of Ministers is being held and that the Council of Ministers is considering it, because who else will do so if the executive authority does not. If the problem – I got up because of Mr. Živković's discussion – if the problem is that someone thinks that this way is trying to transfer responsibility from someone to someone, believe me, it's not even the end of my mind. And if the problem is that it's the address of the Council of Ministers, and it's not listed on a proposal from one of the ministries there, let it be stated, let what you said on the proposal be stated. We don't know which ministry it is, I think it's the Department of Human Rights. But let it be pointed out to the motion of a resolution or resolutional ministry, here, so let the Council of Ministers just do, let it be known that it is not directed towards the chairman of the Council of Ministers. ... Believe it wasn't... intention at all, and that's why I got up to say that if that's the problem, then here's how it goes. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19235	Thank you. Dear Representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19236	Well, there's really no point in reporting and what the chairman said, if we need to speak openly, then we need to speak openly. The MP has the right to any kind of initiative. By accepting this initiative in any direction, it means that this parliament considers it serious and considers it to have solutions and believes that it, at least, will have the right to believe that it will bring a positive... result. Well, in order for us not to be deceived, then we have to say that's where it is. I've got a few dilemmas here. I'll be open. Could the President of the Human Rights Commission of our Parliament have sat down last night or this morning with the members of the Commission and, say, write two amendments to one of the laws we discussed today? Have they all read that in one of these members it says: If this law is not otherwise prescribed, in accordance with BiH's international obligations, none of the persons under any circumstances can be in work... under this law, if the UN international police forces have refused her certification,... shall abolish the authority to exercise police powers, etc. Then it was fair of the applicant to say that when he visited these people yesterday that this country was under protection and that he can't do anything for those people. Or, if he had a decision and an intention to help these people, he could sit down and write amendments, and I only accept 68 of what he said to the chairman: these people had no objection to this Parliament, they did not come before Parliament. We take them this way to solve this issue. But then it's incorrect that the one who has an intention, and I don't respect his right, that he didn't just do it on the way. He shouldn't deceive the public or anyone else, he's got 15 minutes to do it, write it down, but if he can't or can't, he should have told us and those people there. And that would be the point, and whoever else can solve it, and they probably have a lot more power, we're left to fate that they solve it, if... they want to. And that's, I mean, the definitive truth about this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19237	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. I'm sorry, I didn't register. Mr. Križanović, did he sign up? If he checked in.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19238	Oh, here, I'm really not gonna... blow this off. I'd just like to say two sentences in favor of this conclusion. And you see, someone said, here the chairman spoke very well of what we should do to protect human rights. Yes, this Parliament has often discussed this, and we also have the activities of our Council of Ministers, a total of individual ministries, etc. about this. But you see, the Presidential Decision of the UN Security Council is over a year old, and today we have the agenda we had a law that had the obligation to implement that presidential decision. So I also understand that this is not a precise conclusion, etc. But I also understand that besides all that, we are slow and unnecessary, needlessly ineffective. That's why I'm going to stand for, to support this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19239	Thank you. There's no one else reported. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Moving to the 13th point of the established agenda: Ad. 13. A House 29-session initiative by MP Husein Nanić, which reads: "It is the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers to also provide the BiH Parliamentary Assembly with information on the readiness of BiH institutions to make commitments regarding the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement." At its 29th session, June 3, 2008, the Honorable representative Nanić submitted an initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to also provide the Parliamentary Assembly with information on the preparedness of institutions to take over... obligations concerning the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The Committee for European Integration has been considering the initiative, and it proposes to the House that the initiative be adopted. 69 I'm opening a debate on the initiative. Is he asking for a proposal? He does. Honorable representative Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19241	I thank you, Chairman. In this brief explanation, I will not repeat this matter, meaning that we are already familiar with it and already have some things behind us, but here, my intention and support is unanimous, I was at a session of the Commission, that it is meant in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to discuss, to get information on the serenity of BiH institutions to accept the agreed, partnership and from the 16th contractual relationship between the EU and BiH. In that sense – in order for us not to run for information by means of information, be good or less good – with someone who is in charge of doing these things, I really appreciate that here in the House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH we need to get information about the readiness of BiH institutions to apply the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. And in that sense, in the broadest context of this debate,... I appreciate that this initiative will be supported and that we will discuss it within this timeframe, meaning that it has a deadline for the delivery of information from the Council of Ministers to this House in order to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19242	Thank you. There's no record of a hearing. He has a respected representative of Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19243	Thank you. As you have stated, the President-in-Office, the Commission for European Integration has supported this initiative and I will take the opportunity to explain as briefly as possible the importance of this initiative and the need. Namely, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement contains its ten chapters, and the Interim Treaty has already entered into force since 1 July. These ten chapters, which have been signed, are withdrawing about 1,200 regulations and directives which we have undertaken to integrate into our legal system and the European Integration Directorate have already located around the institutions which are also responsible for the integration of these directives and regulations in the way of draft laws, sublegal acts, decisions by governments etc. It is clear that when we decide on ratification, giving consent to ratification of the treaty will have a debate in the Parliamentary Assembly. It will likely be a thematic session of both homes to discuss this. But we have assessed that it is very good that at this very moment the Council of Ministers is asked to prepare this type of information for the reasons that are stated, in particular that the Interim Treaty is already in force on 1 July and that Interim Contract is tanging customs, public procurement, standardisation, measurement, competition issues, etc. Our institutions that we have established... mainly have complaints of various kinds regarding the achievement of the functions of these institutions. Somewhere it's a question of insufficient personnel equipment, somewhere it's a matter of insufficient technical equipment, somewhere it's space, there's coordination, there's subordination. For these reasons, I think it would be good, because all of these institutions, including the ministries, will primarily play a very significant role in preparing, transforming and harmonising these acts with European standards. 70 It is important that we know what is going on with the Food Safety Agency, which are problems with public procurement agencies, market surveillance agencies, the Institute of Measurement, the Institute of Standardisation, the Competition Council, the Veterinary Office, the Office for Co-ordination of Public Administration Reform, etc. It is particularly good for the Council of Ministers to carry out this kind of inventory in a timely manner and to prepare the information at a time when the budget is being prepared for the coming year in order to prepare, possibly and budgetary needs which are an obstacle to the functioning of these institutions, in a timely manner. For these reasons, I think it's realistic to expect the House of Representatives to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19244	Thank you. The following has been reported by the distinguished representative Novaković, so let the distinguished representative Bećirović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19245	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, we will support this conclusion, although I must say it is quite wide-ranging, in a way that the Council of Ministers delivers information on the readiness of BiH institutions. It is quite broad, because I am simply not sure that the Council of Ministers can, therefore, look at the readiness of all institutions in BiH at this point, not only means at BiH level but in BiH to take over these obligations regarding the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I'm not sure there's a willingness either because of the fact that here today, here now, when we're discussing this point that's been announced, it's also been called, and it's not being completed today, we don't have any ministers and we don't have anyone in front of the Council of Ministers. I'm not sure, because we broke up the session today because there was no one here at one point from the Council of Ministers, and they needed some legal solutions. I'm not sure if you want to because today at 10:30 was a presentation on the subject: a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and we're not even informed about it. And of course, very symptomatic that or here, let's say, not to be symptomatic, but it happened at a time when Parliament's session was held. I think the approach to this question must change. Relations within institutions and between institutions must change. And that's why I think it's a much more serious question than it looks like a wide-ranging issue. But here, in order to contribute, means to get some kind of-- that kind of information here and open up the debate, I'm going to support this proposal, so when the debate comes, then we're going to have a lot more in front of us. I guess we'll have a lot more material so we can really discuss it a lot more seriously than we can at this point, after all. Thank you. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19246	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19247	Here, I would like to say that this initiative should certainly be encouraged and supported here at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, if it were fortunate, no one would propose it by the MPs, we would already have that logically on the agenda as a proposal from the Council of Ministers, but we are not at this opportunity. I would only add, I don't know if it's possible to supplement at this point, and it seems to me that this is such a serious issue after the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement that it certainly deserves a joint thematic session and the Parliamentary House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, with only one item on the agenda. It seems to me that we forgot very quickly that adopted Resolution on the acceleration of the European path of BiH that we adopted about six or seven months ago, I do not know exactly the date, which also obliged the Council of Ministers and Parliament and many other bodies to welcome the signing of this agreement as much as possible. No matter what we may be in, whether or not the current situation is the fact that we are followed by root reforms and adaptation to the legal, economic and political standards of the EU. We are about to bring BiH legislation into line with EU legislation. Are we waiting for this moment and if we're not why we're not, we need to see the same thing. We have not heard anyone from the Council of Ministers exactly how much BiH must pass the law, how much yearly we should pass the law here in the BiH Parliament, and how we will realise it with this work by the Council of Ministers...which, in the past year, has not realised even 30%, and according to some information a few days ago, even some ministers and from 3% to 4% implement that plan. So, these are really serious issues and I think that this information should not only be information about preparedness, I think that it should first and foremost read: Information on preparedness, and stress this, the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which plays an extremely important role in this process and then say other institutions of BiH, but I particularly highlight the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I have to say, and I talked about this six or seven months ago, we had to welcome this agreement with the pre-adopted Stabilisation and Association Agreement Implementation Plan, and not with any implementation plan, but with a plan of implementation which will exactly track what measures are needed to implement this Agreement, who will adopt these measures and within which time limits, who is responsible for their adoption and, in particular, to see what deadlines we will do so. Unfortunately, as far as I know, there is no such plan and I think we are already seriously behind on this subject. And I therefore consider this initiative a truly one chance to, although we are already late, put this issue seriously on the agenda and to meet both homes on the topic.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19248	Thank you. 72 no more reported? Honorable representative. How many of you have answered now? Mr. Križanović, Mr. Ivanković. Does anyone else have a report? Here, then in this order. Dear Representative Križanović, let the honourable representative Ivanković be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we are in a mood... to talk today about BiH's readiness to implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. You see, so we're not even going to have this debate today, but we're talking, so, are we going to support one conclusion like this or a little bit modified? But the fact is, this initiative makes a lot of sense. You see, we seem to have been surprised by this Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We've been waiting for him for two years, a place for two years that we've signed before, we're only today to inform the public what he means and what we should do, right? So it would not be significant for us to know how much BiH institutions and bodies are ready today to implement the contractual obligations under this agreement but we could change that to the need for Parliament to adopt a plan to realise certain deadlines for all that BiH is waiting for. You know, we can get that information, the information, is that, that half the institution isn't qualified, etc. And then we'll figure it out, come on, so it needs to be trained, etc. We're not interested in that, we're interested in realisation. But within the framework of this realization are tasks, as counterpart Bećirović said, and before the BiH Parliament. We had a situation yesterday that the People's House met so he couldn't work until the afternoon there, and I don't know how long the break was, until 4:00 here. We had a committee of parliament postponement yesterday at this house. We have a situation where commissions work at the limit of the quorum all the time, to work mostly when it's a session. That day or two, they'll load up all the commissions and then the man goes like the one from the Commission's tape to the commission, etc. So we have before this information, that is, the realisation plan, as we will call it, which we expect from the Council of Ministers and in front of our doors to do a lot of things. So I would expand this. So, the training, i.e. the realisation plan of both Parliament and the Council of Ministers, and as counterpart Bećirović and other institutions said. Here, I don't know. All of these dilemmas should not stop this initiative in the problem of defining the point itself, or the conclusion itself, because the conclusion is well-intentioned,... it has its own purpose, so here, if it is necessary to vote to try and reshape this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19250	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19251	My colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I think this initiative is very good and that we should adopt it even though I know the answer. But good, let the Council of Ministers confirm that our institutions are not ready, and probably we all also know that they are not ready to implement 73 of this Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Fortunately, we have an EU special representative, so with satisfactory powers, and he will implement what is in the EU's interest and therefore we do not need to worry much, but what needs to be worrying is BiH's interests in implementing this agreement. What are our interests in this, will it come true in what way? Especially in this economic area, especially in free trade and investment. So, we will open our EU market and there is no alternative, that should be done, but in return we should get investments so that what free trade destroys BiH's economies and destroys jobs through new investments should compensate. And as things look now, we're going to realize this first part, but this second part of the investment to open new jobs, we're going to be left behind. Well, I expect the Council of Ministers to offer a vision and a plan there, set goals that are interests and how to implement them, or, if they don't, then at some of the next sessions, here I will probably give some initiative, as well as other colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19252	Thank you. No more reports. Honorable representative Nanić, the motioner of the initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19253	I thank you, Chairman. As for Mr. Novaković's presentation, I absolutely agree with everything he said and I appreciate that... and that we will see that back to this home to talk about those who are most invited talking about it and make decisions and plans to ask others to work. Mr. Bećirović, on what he said here. So, the initiative is that we are asking the Council of Ministers to do and deliver it to the Parliamentary Assembly, meaning the Parliamentary Assembly of both homes. I would especially like to point out that this is also the Joint Commission for European Integration, so both at home, accepted and addressed both homes to discuss this. And the College will conclude in what way, whether a joint session can go or individual homes, how. They'll decide on this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19254	Thank you. Dear representative Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19255	I didn't mean to answer, but I couldn't keep my mouth shut without telling my thinking. So I think this initiative is good, but today I'm saying this for myself, I don't think we can talk too much. Why? Because first we don't have the text of the agreement, at least I don't have it, I haven't even studied it. We need to get it and study, see what these are obligations of BiH, to have every institution examine the agreement and see from it what its obligations are, and then everyone makes their action plan of action, the order of moves on what we do in the next period. 74 And I think this may be enough for today, but in the coming period we will certainly deal with this issue as a Parliamentary Assembly, that is, this House of Representatives. Also analyse this agreement, see what our obligations are as a legislative body and then make our plan of activity to respond to the tasks that await us.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19256	Thank you. There's no more reports, there's more. Here you go. Dear Representative Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19257	I appreciate this initiative being a little premature. And it comes from the proponents who voted against, who voted against the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. But regardless, I'll vote for this initiative, but I appreciate that if we're in charge of the Council of Ministers, then we're starting to assume... that the Council of Ministers won't do that information. How do we know he won't do it? So here there are many debaters who, like now, are very interested in this Stabilisation and Association Agreement, who are known to have voted against the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. For these reasons, I will refrain from this initiative when there is a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19258	All right, all right, all right. Here, a replica: Honorable representative Džaferović; well-respected representative Bećirević: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19259	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I didn't think I was replicating what Mr. Remzija Kadrić said to attribute to his otherwise specificity and specificity, but he did cross a line, which is why I decided to stand up and say it. So shame on anyone who says the SDA voted against the Stabilisation Association Agreement! We have always voted in favour of the Agreement, we have always been for European integration and don't let our view of police reform get in the way of our position, and please, Remzi, therefore, and if it is from you, it was still too much to warn you about this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19260	Next respected representative Bećirević: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19261	So I must say that I Remzija not know whether his personal position or the position of the Party's MPs' club is for BiH but, two days after the signing of the Stabilisation Association Agreement, I will wonder if it is too early to discuss the implementation of the agreement. I've heard a lot of things for these two years, but this, I still can't believe I've actually heard these words spoken by Mr. Kadrić. 75 So, all the countries that entered the European Union, all the countries that are on the road, we talked about it earlier in the discussions, etc., did not wait for the signing of the Stabilisation Agreement, given – someone mentioned the Agreement – that this Agreement is more or less the same for all the Balkan countries and we, therefore, all others were prepared a year earlier, only after the parade went into realisation, and we here two days later say that there is no plan to implement this agreement, and then this legendary statement: is it too premature today! Just don't believe it!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19262	Dear Representative Kadrić: a reply to the replicas; then a replica: a respected representative of Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19263	So all those MPs, all those clubs, the parties who voted in such a way for those laws that were a condition for signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement were against the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So if we'd waited for these MPs, clubs to do things their way, then we'd still be waiting years to sign a Stabilisation Association Agreement. Therefore, you, not to repeat, all of the parties that were against the laws that were a condition for signing the Stabilisation Agreement, so they were also against the Stabilisation Agreement, that's a thing as clear as day.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19264	Honorable representative Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19265	Well, here's to removing another dilemma, now in the name of the SBiH MPs' Club, the MP of the Party for BiH, since counterpart Bećirović has raised a dilemma in ignorance: is there some interpretation of his discussion of his fellow Member, Remzija Kadrić, here and the position of the SBiH MPs' club? Well, since it is obviously not available with enough information, which is very surprising to me, counterpart Bećirević, I expected that if you read anything else in the paper, but see and follow the activities of the Party for BiH at different levels, I am talking to all the newspapers, I am not talking about your classification of individual media, if nothing else to follow the activities of the members, or the positioned officials of the Party for BiH, when it comes to bringing BiH closer to the European path. I can allow you to misread the structure and someone's discussion that you didn't understand in an adequate way, but to place that dilemma as a dilemma about the Party for BiH, the Party for BiH Parliament Club, I don't think it's appropriate, but if you still have the dilemma, I am at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19266	I thank and conclude the debate. Moving to the 14th point of the established agenda: 76 Ad. 14. Report by the Committee of the College on the Effort of Understanding on: (a) Proposal for the conclusion of the Sefer of Halilović of the 29th session of the House, held on the identification of the assets of the former SKBiH, SSRNBiH, SSOBIH and SSBiH, (b) Proposal for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the SDA from the 29th session of the House, held on 4.6.2008 on the preparation of the information on the assets of the former DPO, (SK, SSRN and Nanić), (c) The request of the Representatives of Rifet Dolić for the entry into the agenda of the 30th session of the House of Conclusions on the establishment and submission of information by the Council of Ministers of BiH on the state and status of property of the state, company and citizens of BiH in the countries of the former SFJ from its activities on its regular basis of the Law of Law to be adopted by Hugment d. You have received a Report from the College as the Committee on Consensus of Conclusions, referred to in point (a), (b) and on the requirements of point (c) and (d) of the agenda. No agreement has been reached in the College on any of these issues, and we will decide in the second round of voting. Moving to the 15th point of the proposed agenda: Ad. 15. Changes in the membership of the House's committees and joint committees of both homes – promoters: representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19271	Dear Chairman, Mr Izetbegović's proposal concerns the Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office, not the Commission's conclusions. So we received a proposal saying: “The SDA Club, Proposal for a conclusion on point 8. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office," and we discussed the Constitutional Commission's conclusions, which means this is not the subject of the debate, this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19272	I accept business intervention. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: The proposal for a conclusion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics on the discussion of the Information of the President of the Council of Ministers of BiH on the work of the State Commission for the Examining of Truths of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Židov and others in Sarajevo in the period from 1992 to 1995. We have two conclusions. I'll read them both. The State Commission for Truth Survey on the Death of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jews and others in Sarajevo is committed in the period 1992 to 1995, which was appointed to the 121st session of the Council of Ministers, held in 15.6.2006, to submit a financial report and a report on work, and is proposed to the BiH Council of Ministers to make a new decision on the formation of the Commission for the Study of Truth on the sufferings of Srbin, Hrvat, Jevrej and others in Sarajevo in the period from 1992 to 1995, in accordance with the recommendation of 05-07-613/25-06, which was adopted at the 126th session of the Council of Ministers, held in 3.8.2006. I suggest we make a statement in the package on these conclusions. Any other suggestions? There isn't. I agree that we have chosen to vote on the Commission's conclusions in the package. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 32 votes "yes", one "against", without "abstained", I find that we have accepted the Commission's proposals under point 9. Proposal for a conclusion of the Commission. 81 We move to point 10. A proposal for a joint defence and security committee's conclusion in the context of an information debate on the state of security in BiH for 2007. We have nine conclusions. My proposal is to declare ourselves in the conclusion package. Any other suggestions? We didn't get anything in writing. Any other suggestions? There isn't. So, I agree that on the 2007 proposal for the Joint Defence and Security Committee's conclusions, we will be present in the package for the 2007 Information on the Security State of BiH debate. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 29 votes "yes", without "against", two "abstained", I find that we have accepted the Joint Defence and Security Committee's proposal to discuss the 2007 Security Information in BiH. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: The proposal for a conclusion of the Transport and Communications Committee in the context of the discussion of the business of the Public TV Service of BiH and the measures to overcome the situation identified by the audit reports on the financial operation of the BiH Public TV Service for 2005 and 2006. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, Azra Hadžiahmetović and Velimir Jukić, in writing, submitted amendments to the commission's conclusions. We'll vote first on the amendments. We are voting first on this amendment by the esteemed representative, Šefik Džaferović, item 11. So, to the conclusion of Commission No 2. This conclusion of Commission No 2 is behind the word... Here you go. Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19273	Given the groupings of proposals, is there any chance that we can solve this in a different way? I'm afraid we won't be able to do it right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19274	Make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19275	Let's postpone the statement on this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19276	Let's postpone the plea. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19277	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19278	About this agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19279	Or the variant of getting all this back to the Commission so she can repeat it. I think, I suggest it's best this way to solve it, I suggest we get back to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19280	We have a very specific proposal: to postpone the statement on this agenda point, and in the meantime, when delayed, to seek a solution. Normally, there's no point in delaying unless we're looking for a solution. The proposal is to postpone the statement on the agenda item 11 and return to the Commission to try to find a consensus between its opinion and the opinion of the other representatives. I would like to make this proposal known: to postpone the plea with this supplement, to return to the Commission so that the Commission will try to find a solution, a new compromise. Please prepare. Vote now! In addition to 26 votes "yes", three "against", four "abstained", I conclude that the proposal to postpone the statement on the agenda item was adopted with this to return to the Commission. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: The proposal for the conclusion of the honourable representative Sadik Ahmetović: “The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly tasks the Council of Ministers to hold an emergency session, with the aim of considering the requirements of decertified police officers and informing the House” Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! With 21 votes "yes", one "against", 11 "abstained", with insufficient... to repeat the vote. At the request of distinguished representative Denis Bećirović, we repeat the vote. Please prepare. Vote now! With 22 votes "yes", without "against", 12 "abstained", with an insufficient entity majority, I find that we do not have an entity majority. We do not have the opportunity to agree on the lack of a member of the College and on the consent of the College as a commission, you will be informed. 83 We move to the 13th item of the agenda: The House's 29th session: "The BiH Council of Ministers Husein Nanić with also delivering to the Parliamentary substance information on the readiness of BiH institutions to make commitments regarding the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement" Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! With 31 votes "yes", without "against", one "abstained", I find that we have accepted the House of Representatives' initiative, Husein Nanić. 14th item of the agenda: Report of the Committee of the College of the Efforts to reach agreement on: (a) Proposal for the conclusion of the Sefer of Halilović of the 29th session of the House, held on 4.6.2008, in connection with the identification of the assets of the former SKBiH, SSRNBiH, SSBiH, SSBiH, We glasovati in the second round. No consent has been reached in the College. They all vote, and the votes "against" count. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 18 votes "yes", 13 votes "against" and 12 "abstained", with two-thirds of the RS vote "against", I find that this proposal is not accepted. We move to a statement under point (b) Proposal for a conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the SDA from the 29th session of the House, held on 4.6.2008, on the preparation of information on the assets of former DPO (SK, SSRN and SSO) The same procedure as for the previous sub-point was not agreed in the College. Prepare to vote. Vote now! We have a request for a re-election. Please prepare. Vote again. Now! We have another request for a re-election. And I have a request to re-vote. I mean, I apply the same criteria to everyone, according to that. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 21 votes "yes", 12 "against" two "abstained", but not enough, i.e. two-thirds of the RS entity "against", I find that the proposal for a conclusion is not accepted. Under: 84 c) The request of Representative Rifat Dolić for inclusion in the agenda of the 30th session of the House 'The proposal for a conclusion on the development and submission of information by the Council of Ministers on the state and status of the state, businesses and citizens of BiH in the countries resulting from the disintegration of the former SFRY, with a plan for activities on its protection and takeover by legal owners' The College did not reach agreement. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 18 votes "yes", 10 "against", seven "abstained", not enough votes "against", I find this request accepted. And under: d) Application by representative Husein Nanić for inclusion in the agenda of the 30th session... How much? Here, does it make sense? You got it. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19281	Thank you. Since it was about this point, you got the conclusion, the MPs, and we had a little bit of a discussion in the break to get the beginning of the conclusion to be otherwise formulated. In this sense, the conclusion remains the same, with the fact that instead of being obliged to stand: the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is calling for the competent institutions in BiH to remain the same, meaning – to include, consider the situation of events and to take the necessary activities out of their jurisdiction. In this regard, instead of borrowing the word, it refers to the appeal to the competent institutions, so as to avoid possible formulations of a vague or influence of politics on the event.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19282	He can't. I have to say he can't because he wasn't accepted, so he wasn't accepted, there was no entity majority to get this into the agenda at all and there was a request to enter the 30th session agenda. I'm more from the aspect of the session, the 30th session has passed. We, so the College as the Committee, have discussed, so no agreement has been reached in the College. I suggest we make a statement, but I suggest you renew your request for one of the next sessions, here. Do you agree with that? Let's get this straight, okay? So, the request of representative Husein Nanić for inclusion in the agenda of the 30th session of the discussion of the atual state in the Football Alliance of BiH -- no agreement was reached in the College. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 17 votes "yes", 15 "against" two "abstained", but two-thirds "against" from RS, I find this request not accepted. 85 15th item of the agenda: Change in the membership of the committees of the House and joint committees of both homes I will only remind you. So, the Party's Party for BiH Representatives Club has submitted a proposal to appoint instead of the distinguished representatives of Azra Alajbegović, a member of the Joint Committee for Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, emigration, refugees, asylum and ethics, the distinguished representative of Remzija Kadrić, while the distinguished representative Azra Alajbegović is appointed as a member of the Committee for Gender Equality instead of representatives of Remzija Kadrić. The SDP representative club submitted a proposal to fill the space in the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, emigration... and, after MP Denis Bećirović resigned, proposed the appointment of a respected representative, Mirjana Malić. For the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, the SDA's representative club proposed that it be replaced by a respected representativeSadik Salko Sokolović. The SDS Representatives' Club also suggested that a respected representative of Savo Erić be appointed in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's delegation to the Interparliamentary Union instead of a former member of Momčilo Novaković. Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19283	I apologize, I haven't noticed, like everyone else before, but here I have now noticed that these changes violate the entity's required representation in committees. For example. By changing the gentleman... you were excess, but here's Remzi and Alajbegović too. I think we'll do the same thing again. I'm in. And you're not from the Federation, and you're not from the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19284	It's the easiest thing to put to the vote. We, the Honorable Representative of the Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19285	Dear Chairman, in order to avoid these problems that Mr Zorić spoke about, and we have thought about it here, we suggest that this statement be removed from today's agenda and for the next time, when it is determined whether or not this relationship we are talking about has been disrupted, put on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19286	So, we have a proposal to postpone the statement on the 15th item of the agenda until the next session, and to keep the applicants up until the next session on the compliance of their proposals with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. 86 I am giving this proposal a statement. Who Is For? With 31 votes "yes", three "abstained", I agree that we have accepted this proposal to postpone the statement on the 15th item of the agenda. We move to a statement on the 16th item of the agenda: Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Turkey on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes, (b) Convention on the Protection of European Wild Species and Natural Habitats, (c) Credit Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and BAWAG P.S.K. Bank for Labour and Business and Austrian Post Office DD - Medical equipment procurement project for Mostar Clinical Hospital, d) Credit agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and BAWAG P.S.K. Bank for Labour and Business and Austrian Post Office DD – Medical equipment procurement project for Mostar Health, e) Credit agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and BAWAG P.S.K. Bank for Labour and Business and Austrian Post Office DD – Medical equipment procurement project for Cantonal Hospital "Safet Mujic" Mostar. I propose that we make a statement on granting consent to ratifying the agreement in the package. Any other suggestions? There isn't. So I'm realizing that we've chosen to declare all of these sub-points a) to e) under point 16. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 33 votes "yes", without "against", two "abstained" votes, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that the Parliamentary House of BiH has given prior consent to the ratification of the agreement as I have read and defined under point 16 with points (a) to (e). Here you go, dear representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19287	My colleagues and colleagues, so you don't stay here vaguely. So this vote in Parliament is a serious matter. Point 8 of today's agenda, is not – in my judgment, I have tried to intervene, you have continued with the session, I have tried to be unobtrusive – so point 8 is not voted out the way I think it should be, that is, in my opinion, the Rules of Procedure. And, the chairman, therefore, the proposal for a conclusion of the SDA Club has the practical character of amendments to the Constitutional Commission Report. And when you said you were going to vote on both, first one that came earlier, later on, and you said it, then we kept silent, expecting that vote to follow. Otherwise, there would be intervention if it were an amendment, practically an amendment to the Constitutional Commission Report, so that we would then have the intervention of 87 respected colleagues, Novaković, who said that this was not actually the conclusion on the Commission's report, but that this was the conclusion on the information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office. It would also be fair, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to put to the vote and the proposal for a conclusion of the SDA's Club as you said in your opening statement right before the vote. So let the House declare it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-18-0.u19288	Thank you. Business intervention exists precisely to help the chairman to conduct the meeting of this home as successful and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Since all of us do not always have to be right, nor does the Chairman of the House, I have respected the business intervention of the respected representative Novaković, and you see, read what the Opinion concludes in point 8. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2007 and see the item on the agenda on which we have been pleading today. And I respected the business intervention of the distinguished representative Novaković, and I think I did the right thing when I did it. And I thank you for your correctness and for your constructive contribution to this and all the other sessions. With full respect and respect for all of you, here I thank you for your constructive contribution to the work of today's session and for the completion of the work. It is most likely that the 9th regular session is next and there is a possibility, as I have already said, that a special session will be scheduled before. Thank you very much. The seat's finished at 17.35.
