ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22773	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 43rd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, the OSCE and other international organisations in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs. I welcome all present representatives and guests. I also welcome representatives of public information funds. According to service information, I'd like to conclude that there are 29 MPs present at the session. There are justly no honourable representatives: Beriz Belkić, Jozo Križanović, Jerko Ivanković and Jovan Todorović. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. In the invitation to this session, we have proposed only one item on the agenda, which is: - The draft law on the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2009. Meanwhile, the Council of Ministers delivered in the procedure of the draft law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act, with an emergency procedure request, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. The bill was sent to us by fax on Friday, 26th of this month, with a warning that it is possible to put it on the agenda, so that you can carry the material. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the College and the Enlarged College, it completed the draft agenda by including this request for a procedure in the agenda. You received the updated agenda proposal on the benches. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. I have a registered, respected representative, Sefer Halilović. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22774	Dear chairman, fellow MPs, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, guests, in front of this parliament and in this parliament, a topic has been opened several times, and this is the theme of the donations that BiH has received since the end of the war until 2005. Given that the budget is being debated today and that if Parliament makes a decision to re-establish an investigative commission that will determine how much BiH has received the donation and how it has been spent, then my proposal would be to supplement today's daily score, so: - the donations BiH received and the way it was spent. To open this important issue of debate, to form an investigative commission, because this investigative commission that was formed, here is only a brief explanation, in 2003, of these members of the investigative commission, and today they are MPs in Parliament, Adem Huskić, Jozo Križanović, Milorad Živković, Ivo Lozančić. I think I'm fine. So... the president of the commission was Tihomir Gligorić and in several media acts he said that the parliamentary commission found that BiH had won... 15 billion donations, of which the exact cost is recorded for just over 7 billion, which means that more than 8 billion people don't know where they are and how they're gone. The Commission submitted its proposal to the House of Representatives in March 2005 and proposed the adoption of the conclusions: 1. To oblige the Council of Ministers to submit a report on the donations made within 60 days. 2. That, within 30 days, MPs are organized to present the database. 3. That competent audit institution, the Ministry of Interior and the Agency for Investigation and Protection, etc. implement spending control, 4. To make a decision whether the Council of Ministers takes the task of controlling the cost of donations or to... grant funds in order for the commission to complete its work in full capacity. None of these conclusions have been realized. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Adnan Terzić, then bought a software computer from the UNDP, had a programme that was paid about a million and 200 thousand marks and was scheduled to record what happened to the donated money, but the programme never functioned. As Gligorić told the media on several occasions, a report by the competent parliamentary commission was to be forwarded to the prosecutor's office but never happened. According to what was read in the press, the D.A. said they never received the report. My proposal, since Parliament and this Council of Ministers stands and there is a shadow of unknowns how much BiH has received in this period of reconstruction and reconstruction and what about this money, when the budget is already being discussed, in order to provide for the Commission's resources to work in the budget, to put this item on the agenda and to conclude that a commission is being formed and after the debate is being held. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22775	Thank you. Please submit the written proposal here to the table. The next one was announced by Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22776	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I also don't think the conditions to point 2 have been met. The request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, by emergency procedure, is found on the agenda. In fact, the MPs didn't get, as far as I know, material for this agenda point. Here is a proposal for it to be considered in accordance with Article 127. Of course, it does not meet those conditions observed at the first session. However, I do not believe that most of us here today can, indeed, if she received the text 10 minutes or an hour ago, seriously debate this law. So, I suggest, and given that we have already agreed for today's session that we have only agreed on a budget, and that there are a number of points that we could also have put on this session, or you could have proposed as a College in today's session agenda, and that the constitutional basis of the Constitutional Commission was adopted, and we didn't do so, I suggest that today there is only a debate on the first-reading budget, and that this law be on the agenda when other legal projects are found, and that so far it can simply be entered into the essence of the arguments provided by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22777	Thank you. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22778	Dear Chairman, given that this is probably and almost certain, is the last session of the 2008 House of Representatives, I must say that I expected that at this last session we have one item on the agenda that would bear the term 'The Report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers in 2008.'. Indeed, I do not intend to put you as chairman at this point in office, but I must, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure under which we are working, quote Article 27 under h) where it is said that the chairman is obliged to worry about the application of this Rules of Procedure. Namely, in Article 163. The Rules of Procedure (1) literally states: "The BiH Council of Ministers reports on its work at least once a year." Position (2) 'Home shall consider a report on the work of the Council of Ministers within 30 days of its submission. After the debate, the House can express its political position on the report submitted by means of a resolution." 4 I must say, this is the end of the second year, and we have not yet had a single report on the work of the Council of Ministers in accordance with Article 163. Therefore, in order not to further complicate things, I propose, and that it would not look at the next session as some lightning from the clear sky, that you, as chairman, establish a certain communication with the Council of Ministers so that we have this item of the agenda at the next session, in accordance with what the Rules of Procedure we are working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22779	I thank you, too. The chairman is concerned about the implementation of the Rules of Procedure and as soon as we have the Council of Ministers' report, it will certainly be included in the agenda. And here, I thank you for your encouragement, will be asked by the Council of Ministers to deliver its report as soon as possible and as soon as we get that report it will be run as a item of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22780	I would ask you to transfer the position of the House of Representatives and what is in the Rules of Procedure and not to make it sound like a goodwill position whether or not the Council of Ministers will deliver it to us, but to really send them a letter informing them that they are obliged to do so for the next session of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22781	You obviously didn't get me right. So, I thanked you for your encouragement to do so to the Council of Ministers and, of course, we will refer to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that you have called upon, so it is not disputed. There are no other proposals for changes and additions to the agenda. I must tell the honourable representative Novaković that point 2, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, is a mandatory item of the agenda and that we at the College have discussed not to put it on the agenda, but after the debate, we have concluded that it is still a mandatory item of the agenda and that we do not have the right to take it off the agenda. So that's about your proposal. And we have a proposal from a respected representative, have we received from the distinguished representative Halilović? I'll try to quote as you suggested. I have to say it's hard to call the agenda point that, which is why I asked you to deliver it in writing, because I'm thinking about what the agenda point would be. You're about like this, so you quoted to include the item on the agenda: the donations that BiH received and how they were spent! Would you like to run the agenda point a little more precisely? 5
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22782	Here, I wrote it and you'll get it maybe in a minute, two or three minutes. The point is to form an investigative commission that will determine how much BiH has received donor funds for reconstruction and reconstruction and how and how these funds have been spent. I think there should be, that it should become an interest of every MP here and the Council of Ministers to remove this issue once and for all, and to determine whether or not there is no misuse of donations. According to what the previous commission found, and the reason that it did not, there are some 50,000 marks missing around that the commission does its job, there is no known fate of around 8 billion marks. And yet, if I can say one more sentence, from the outset, especially Gligorić, and also some other members of this commission, mostly Bosniak representatives in the Parliamentary Assembly are accused that they have obstructed... the work of this commission because most of the funds came to the Federation and have reason to do so. I hope that today we should make one such decision to form an investigative committee that will determine how many donations have been collected and how these donations have been spent.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22783	You've got, I hope, in the meantime a proposal to define the agenda point. As long as it's shared, here, I'll read it for you a little while. So, the draft item on the agenda: - The appointment of the 'Research Committee of the House of Representatives to determine the reception and spending of donations received by BiH from 1996 to 2008.'. I will now quote the provisions of Article 29. Rules of Procedure: 'A House may, on a proposal from a representative or a club of representatives, set up temporary committees of the House: a) to consider the execution or preparation of a certain act or questions; b) investigation committee'. So there's a possibility. The proposal is required to propose objectives and tasks. The tasks and composition of the commission shall be determined by the conclusion of the House. Here, these are business provisions. We can accept that you already said in your explanation both goals and tasks. I would like to make clear the proposal for this item on the agenda, as the proposal has been drawn up by the applicant. Please prepare. Vote now! 21 votes "yes", six "against", four "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. Is it enough? Enough, excuse me, enough entity majority. 6 I conclude that this point, this proposal is included in the agenda as the third item of the agenda of today's session. I therefore conclude that the following agenda has been established for the 43rd session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives: 1. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations of BiH for 2009. [[Common discussion]] If you could just give us a little attention and let's try to work. So I find that the 43rd session of the House of Representatives has been determined as follows
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22787	Thank you. As you know, the BiH Presidency is a draft budget under the Constitution, member of the V. The presidency first received a proposal from the Council of Ministers where the budget was scheduled to be 1.434.000, within the fiscal council's conclusion of 12%. I'll take a quick look at what happened on the Commission. There was also Minister Vrankić, and in this proposal for the return of refugees and displaced persons, 300,000 were planned or exactly 1% compared to last year or 108 times less, and the three in Prudo agreed that it would take at least 500,000 to implement Aneks vi, 500 million, yes, aneks vii.. That's how far Prud went, right on the first step one percent, so no one ever comes back. And, of course, the Bureau is a constitutional proposing and the Bureau has taken care of all these aspects and has proposed a proposal of 1,636.000,000. It increased by 200 million, 185 million to the Direct Taxation Authority and 15 to the Central Bank. It was mostly for the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, an additional 47 million, the Parliamentary Assembly of 2 million, not to read any further, you have all these proposals. And there was a debate, there was a lot of arguments on the one hand and on the other, but I also told the Commission and I am obliged to say it here as well. I'm not Minister Halilović's lawyer, and I was mistaken, believe me, in the media they came forward that only 5% of last year was spent, so 11%, so 20%, here I have the information that a set of 32.500,000 has been allocated to the 11th month, so it's all gone, no more stamps, everything and the fencing has been deployed. Second, it has five steps. The first step goes, so the municipalities, the public call, then returns to the Ministry of Monitoring again, and then the municipality goes to a public tender, then the fund, then the implementation, means the Public Procurement Act. You know, thank Bog, what our law is, that this procedure takes a year or two days. It's not wrong for this ministry either, so we can't count on what's going on in public that hasn't been spent last year, it's all arranged. I believe that this Presidency had an understanding of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees where it gave an additional 97 million, and the Commission is giving it to us on the basis of the presentation and the resolution minister, and I must say here that the resolution minister did not vote in favour of the Fiscal Council Decision, as the only representative of this state parliament, and this is giving it to us – because what 8 is proposed is going towards the weakening of state and state institutions, and not towards strengthening – and the Commission voted first in favour of the presidency proposal, for principles and adopted principles. Afterwards, it was the conclusion that the vote would be made, the draft budget within the Fiscal Council and the principles, the BiH presidency's proposals, would be respected. I believe and propose that this Parliament be shown on the Commission's proposal, and on this second proposal, I have not, as chairman, supported this request, because I believe that what the Fiscal Council has proposed is a direct focus against the return of refugees and displaced persons and that it is not an honor for all of us here if we adopt it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22788	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22789	We can call her a replica, or we can call her...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22790	I see how it's reported, so that's why I do. Is it a debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22791	No, no, it's not a debate, but intervention is anyway. I would not be discussing here today a proposal of this or that budget, here to discuss the Bill on Budgets which legally, under the Constitution, led the BiH Presidency into the procedure in this assembly. And in phase two, it means in the amendment phase, who can act. Therefore, there should be only one debate here today, on one draft budget, which was given by a legitimate representative under the BiH Constitution. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22792	If anyone else has a dilemma, that's exactly what we're discussing and that's all we're discussing today, because he's in the process. So there's no dilemma, so there's no other suggestions, there's only one suggestion. I don't think there's any further dilemma about it. We're discussing the principles of the bill. No more reports. I'll tell you what, I'll tell you what. Dear Representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22793	Gentlemen, the chairman of the esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished guests, I apologize, but I thought the proposal would explain the Bill on Budget. The debate on the budget and the 9th adoption by parliament, in normal societies, is the most important political-economic act that is taking place in the country's stability and development in one financial year, and I think it was at least polite of the Bureau members to attend the act without saying that they were obliged to attend. A responsible budget-making approach rests on several chronologically orderly activities. First, the objectives set before the budget, since the budget, in addition to ensuring the functioning of institutions and states, is also a certain socio-economic instrument of state policy. Then, the further phase is a realistic estimate of revenue in the financial year. The next phase is the rational determination of the expenditure of budgetary users and the state and, of course, analytical documentary monitoring of the moment of the budget. What's crystal clear here today, in front of this budget proposal, has no goals, but this is one non-innectible account. Secondly, this budget proposal rests on unreal estimated revenues or rather on revenues that, instead of evaluating by competent institutions, are determined by ex-sleeve estimates by the Bureau or rather by two members of the Bureau. This budget proposal rests on scandalous terms, I will say, and immorally determined expenditures, as if it were flea market, not rational public income spending and taxpayers' funds. This draft budget does not respect and does not have a measuring basis for analytical documentation, either globally or at a lower level. I am personally already irritated, too, by the words 'financial crisis and recession' but this budget, unfortunately, cannot be considered serious without an analytical assessment and that factor, and in these 126 pages of this document I have not even imagined these words whose influence serious people count and evaluate, everyone seems to be apart from us. I guarantee you that in such an irresponsible and unscrupulous way, the budget is not passed in any country in the world. In our case, firstly, as on the flea market, expenditure is determined and income is then cut short. I believe that Minister Vrankić and his associates know well how to process, technically, professionally make a budget, but here, unfortunately, it seems to me, there is no procedure, no technique, no profession. Let me say or make at least some observations about this draft budget, without the pretense that it will have any effect on any change in the second reading, but at least let it be in the stenogram of this debate. First, two technical things. And this time I ask the question: Why does someone need these income and expenditure tables to be so non-transparent and written in such a miniature letter? I don't see any valid reason for that, not even that technical nature. If it's of a technical nature, I'm making myself available to practically deny it. Please, is it serious that the draft budget law is offered on December 29th as a comparative analytical indicator for the implementation of the budget for the first six months of this year. Is it possible that, if not in 11 months, it could not have secured the cumulative execution of the Budget, at least in nine months. We determine and bring the budget, and if we didn't have at least an assessment of its execution, although it would be normal, not to say necessarily, that we had discussed before the rebalancing of the Budget. And I don't understand why there's no rebalancing in this year either. I have to ask all of us another logical question: What happens in the country where the incomes from the Central Bank are channelled into public spending? I'm telling you that whoever decides that 115 million KM income from the Central Bank's profit is directed at public spending doesn't think well about 10 of this country or doesn't know what it's doing, especially when it's at a time of global financial and economic movement in the world. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22796	I thank the honourable representative. The following was reported by a respected representative of Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22797	I thank you, Chairman. So, I'll do it very briefly. It is very important that the principles of this Bill on Budgets are BiH institutions and international obligations for 2009, that the principles of this law are accepted by the Finance and Budget Commission. And thanks to that, we now have a chance to discuss the principles of this proposed law. I would just refer to one of the views of the Finance and Budget Committee, which says: "The Finance and Budget Commission of the House of Representatives and the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury is in charge that in co-operation with the resolution ministries in the amendment phase of the Bill on the Budget of the Institutions of BiH and International Obligations, with the structure of revenue... that would be within the frameworks established by the Fiscal Council and the structure of expenditure... which would be respected within the limits of opportunities and proposals of the BiH Presidency." So, I repeat,...it's important enough and it's positive that the principles at the Finance and Budget Committee are accepted, so within these frameworks. There is, I think we're going to find the possibility that, in the context of what's been proposed by the Presidency... we're going to take care of all of this, especially these requests from the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, that we're going to find an opportunity... to adopt this budget this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22798	Thank you. Dear Representative Kalabić and Ahmetović, are they replicas or debates? Replica. First the distinguished representative Kalabić, then the distinguished representative Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22799	So very briefly, given that the chairman of the Commission remained a little understated, he held on to the fact that he voted against this conclusion, but did not say that the conclusion was adopted on the Commission and that this conclusion was an integral part of the Report and that it was acceptable to us as an integral part of the Report, means together with the other part. It's quite clear here, so this budget is being brought into the frameworks set by the Fiscal Council, and it's a confirmation of the Fiscal Council as an institution and a return of some dignity. We have passed the Fiscal Council Act and it has been paved a little bit by these positions of the Presidency and as one of the younger institutions, but here we are in this way returning the dignity and where the most responsible people for this country's fiscal system gave their opinion and gave their views and agreed to them. On these grounds, the SNSD is ready and able to discuss this budget. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22800	Thank you. Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22801	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the replica may be on display with Mr. Bahtić and Mr. Kadrić. We had a proposal from the Bureau a year ago, so Budget. And in that proposal there was a proposal for refugees, a return, what everyone here likes to talk about, was about two to three million, if I remember correctly. And here we are within the parliamentary majority and amendments to fix it to 33 million, 23 plus 10 for Srebrenica. So there was also a dimension and a relationship when it came back. So now we want to play some political story about how it is someone to come back, someone isn't, someone less, someone more, etc., etc. I think that this draft budget should be adopted in principles and within, again, these parliamentary majority agree, because it is only possible for this budget to get the green light. He can't do it any other way. If we go with that approach, then we'll have a budget; if we don't go, we won't have a budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22802	Dear Representative Sadik Bahtić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22803	I have to explain to my colleague Kalabić. Now, here's what's good about me not being able to vote on the principles along with this conclusion that you insisted on. The vote was first on principles, voting principles, then on conclusions I didn't support. And you insisted on voting together. So it was a separate vote on principles. Also, I'm speaking to my fellow denominator Sadiković, yes, last year was the same situation. But there was a compromise. And this decision by the Commission is some compromise between the Fiscal Council and the Presidency. And not like this just to build the apparent borders of the fiscal council and... A compromise, yes, but you need to sit down. Because we sat down, here's the conclusion that the members of the Commission would sit with Minister Vrankić and be seen. Did we ever sit down? We didn't sit down, we should sit down and see what it is. To find that compromise like last year, just like that. And colleague Kalabić, you've been very careful, I see we voted together to make it all different now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22804	Honorable representative Kalabić, replica. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22805	As usual, Mr. Bahtić tries to explain it in some way, although the result of this story is exactly the same, quite clearly. The Finance Commission, together with Mr Bahtić, has decided to return this budget to the Fiscal Council, and that is the decision of the Commission you are chairing. So that's the Commission's decision that you chair and you took part in that decision in a unique way. And... what I expect from you, as chairman of the Commission, to declare that position even when you disagree with it. It doesn't mean anything to you that you're stalling this little thing in your own special way. The principles are significantly wider than the budget framework itself, so one segment within is in principle. A significant part of the matter is in principle we agree, so it's not disputed. Then it would be completely identified and it's impossible to vote on it together. It is known how to vote for principles, but our condition and now we make it clear, you understand how you want it, so our condition is that it is a unique Commission report, a single report, with a vote on principles and a vote on this conclusion of the Commission and I think everyone understands what it is and there is no need, regardless of what your one is, it is inside, I know where it is pointed, but I want to explain how to contribute to getting out of this and what it is in the next period, and not in this as it is. And I pray for correctness when, and your chairman, when it comes to the reports; I pray, everyone has a chance to discuss when it comes to the reports of the chairman committees. They need to be absolutely clear, as Mr. Džaferović does. I think you can see from him how the commission's report is presented.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22806	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22807	Well, we voted on the principles of the bill we got from the presidency. And this, the conclusions that we didn't vote for, is normally in phase two that the amendment goes. It has nothing to do with principles today, we adopted principles on the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22808	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22809	Oh, no, no, that's, that's for the second half of what you're talking about. And that's what we should sit about, about that, about that. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22810	Well, I'm glad you two Commissioners spent both of your replicas explaining... the work of your commission. 14 Let's move on now. Dear Representative Savo Erić is next to be discussed.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22811	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I was really on the Commission when this was happening and you can imagine in three hours that I hadn't figured out what they wanted to bring, but now I'm getting a lot clearer. Please, I just want to remind you that we are obliged to listen to the profession, and that profession comes through our ministry, the minister and our government, that's one thing. And secondly, you've adopted and voted to form a fiscal council that has the obligation to make all these dilemmas between resolutions, to agree, to combine, to make the profession appear, to remain in the amendment phase. And there was an agreement that we would have a budget by the end of this calendar year, and it's good, here we are somewhere close, so I hope that these principles will be adopted today, and that we leave all these misunderstandings at the amendment stage. I hope we vote that budget in January. However we think about it, the bigger the consequences will be if we adopt it in March and the greater the damage than 10, 20, 30 million to move the items here. What's really a big problem is, if we look at this external debt and look at the salaries, we see that there's very little room in this budget to argue and settle things. And I'll just remind you, it means that one of the long-term programs was, so all of us here, to solve the status of the refugees and the displaced. I think in the next two years we should finish it. We can't do anything with this budget wider and better in the next period. And I suggest we really stick to it and try to through the amendments end this phase and go to the polls as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22812	Thank you. The following has been reported by respected representative Bajazit Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22813	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that this is the first job, a serious, fiscal council of BiH in, for us, the best moment, because I am convinced that establishing a real framework of budgetary spending by the Fiscal Council is one of the measures to mitigate this economic crisis that has prevailed over BiH. That is why it is very important that we put the fiscal council's decision at the heart of our observation and those who think it is not possible to make such an alternative. Is it possible to start with such an important institution, and at the very beginning to have reserves according to decisions made by the Fiscal Council, given that the establishment of a framework for budgetary spending protects and lower levels of government from which they are financed dominantly, at this stage of constitutional jurisdiction, and the development of BiH and the development of employment and social policy and many other competencies that are not yet at BiH level. That is why this conclusion came almost evenly with the support of the principles of the budget, because it is the only possible way for the budget to remain in the process and to find the best solution. Because the damage from budgeting is invaluable for BiH, but also for lower levels that these days are also doing this serious 15 job. If it hadn't been for this conclusion, the principles wouldn't have been supported. The job is not done, so today it is important to support these principles in order to open up to ourselves a space of normal work. I must say that in this budget explanation, we have a steady progress and those who read the budgets see clearly from that explanation what goals are wanted and can be achieved with the resources available, with real budget spending. What would be fair is that, in the process of budget spending planning, there has been no serious shift. The competent commission is not involved in budget preparation, the resolution ministry has launched the budget planning procedure in time, but slow and insufficiently responsible budget planning has led to budget users' demands being much higher than BiH's real possibilities. And I think that one of the fields of our action together, in addition to what we are considering the audit reports, will have to be education and increased responsibility in budget planning. I think it's fair to point out at this point that in this budget we can only fully implement the adopted Law on Payments in Institutions, and it is important to note that there has been an increase in the base only by 7.5% and that the funds are 28% higher. And that's the main thing of our space, desired, for some other projects, simply captured or blocked in order to implement this very important law. And it could not be said that there are people who would not support what the BiH presidency proposes. So the heart would like to support that. What's not good is that there's been an overvote in the face of a consultation between the Presidency and the Fiscal Council. This overvote in the Presidency is in a certain way blocking one, I say, natural decision-making in the Finance and Budget Commission, and it will make it difficult to decide in this House. So when everything is added together, when the fact is collected that due to the economic situation, it is realistic to expect a slowdown in the implementation of reforms in BiH, because they need money, then I think that supporting the principles on which this budget has been made and supporting this conclusion that obliges us to make together another more acceptable expenditure structure in the budget – the only way to reach the budget today or in the next 30 days. I have to say, and I'm not going to replicate if someone tells me something, all those who say they are for this budget and who don't support this principle, the approach, basically means they're not for this budget. Those in charge of budget implementation know what the difference is when you have a budget and you have a decision on temporary funding. The effects of budgeting can just cover those of our wishes that we would like to meet by making ourselves a budget with a different income structure and a different cost structure. And I think it's important to point out this information in the end. How difficult it was to agree with the objectives and wishes and resolution ministers said that there was no planned increase in the number of staff in the institutions in 2009 until the planned number of 2008 was completed, and only those who provided in those redistributions would receive special consent to do so. And there aren't any institutions that wouldn't want new employees. It's just saying that at least in that part, we realized how important it is that we are really planning to leave enough space for the lower levels of government to provide funding, in addition to what their constitutional powers are and to encourage development and new employment. 16 Therefore, I call on us all to support the Commission's report, we would do well to support it unanimously, because it opens up the possibility for us to work together in these next days and to come to an acceptable structure of budgets both in revenues and in expenditures, which will be less than we want, which we can, can be, expected, and will be just enough that BiH institutions can function uninterruptedly. And as political as it is, I think it is a central question that it could or should not have remained 300 thousand KM to support its return. Regardless of the problems there in the implementation of the project, I think there is a willingness, which we have felt here and in the breaks, that this position is particularly placed at the center of our observation and that it is significantly improved and that in the end, we will get a budget that will allow all of us to then deal with what is ours, it can be, the original jurisdiction – the adoption of laws and what else we need to do, and that the Council of Ministers and the Resord Ministry of Finance can realize what is drawn up in this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22814	I thank the esteemed representative Jašarević. The following was reported by distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22815	I thank you, Chairman. In today's brief presentation on the draft budget that we have and indeed that MP Jašarević did not explain this to me would remain unclear, regardless of what we received in writing and what he explained to the chairman of the Finance Commission and the budget as the Commission's views are. And not only that, we have no promoter and then we come into a situation where the Parliamentary Assembly is between decisions of the Fiscal Council, the Council of Ministers, the BiH Presidency, we remain silent and only pray to Bog when we come to vote and to go and thus refer to the document which is the most important document in the coming year in all countries and so on in BiH. What I really, here in this... using, understanding both the time and the need to shorten our debate, I want to say that I regret that we did not have the opportunity to discuss the budget two months ago and I do not see any reason... which is why the Council of Ministers and these two other institutions, which I have listed, have waited until this moment not to adopt the budget before the 2009 budget. And with one request from the Council of Ministers, and I hope that it will be respected, i.e. a respected conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly, means this home and the House of Peoples on the delivery of the 'Plan to resolve the accommodation of BiH institutions' adopted and adopted last budget for 2008. I hope that we will get this plan with the draft budget, given that the information we have received, indeed, and one letter on a dozen sides and it does not solve this problem, given that significant funds for these purposes are provided for in the budget. In that sense, here's what I wouldn't do here, given that it's about principles. And I hope we support these principles as my predecessor, Mr. Jašarević, has said. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22816	I thank the esteemed representative, Nanić. The next is Honourable representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22817	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I say we are making progress, and here we have this budget planned for this year. When do we get it? I hope that we will not welcome the first quarter but that we will have it in January of the month, if we accept the principles today, that is, if we accept the Commission's report with one note, that is, my observations. Looking at this material, there are a lot of shortcomings that we should explain. Like what? I couldn't see them anywhere in the Funding Plan, which raises the question: is it even covered, how they will be financed, etc.? On the other hand, I have to say that I would like to express my dissatisfaction that the finance minister did not come out and gave us the basics of the 2009 draft budget, for one simple reason which seems to me to have been this very budget and envisaged and with which the minister agreed, because his position on the Fiscal Council was that there was insufficient funding for this budget that the Bureau gave with the proposal, which was signed by Mr Radmanović, I think there is somewhere, satisfying the finance minister. And, on the other hand, I would appreciate this letter from the president of the parties far more if this was a letter from the Fiscal Council to Parliament, not the president of the parties. I'll say it for one simple reason, which doesn't make sense to me that in the signing of three party presidents you have: one is an engineer, one is a politician, one is a lawyer, and the Fiscal Council doesn't make up these people. The fiscal council consists of the chairman of entity governments and finance ministers. I think that would be more logical and this memo to me as an MP would have been far more powerful and motivated if the Fiscal Council had signed here, not party presidents. However, by not wanting anything to be complicated, or to be replicated, I believe that we should go to the adoption of the principle, with these shortcomings, which we see at this amendment stage, first of all with the agreement, please, with the negotiation that should be done right in the Commission, trying to reach a budget that I would say, balanced between wishes and possibilities. But it would have been adopted in this parliament as a single whole, and that part would have ended already in January 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22818	I thank the esteemed representative Bešlagić. The next is distinguished representative Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22819	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, here I am not going to be long. The report from the Committee on Finance and Budgets made it clear and came from both meanings, i.e. main lines and those problems, i.e. the discrepancies that were on this commission, and also here today. So we have the fact that the draft budget sent by the Bureau 18 was increased by 200 million marks from what came from the Council of Ministers. And yet, also important, from what was adopted, was adopted as a framework on the Fiscal Council. I, to be honest, would be much happier if we could adopt today, or that we could talk today about a much bigger budget, because it really takes a much bigger amount of budget for BiH institutions, because needs are much bigger. I'm not talking about what 75% of this budget is, but I'm talking about other needs, which is the need to return, the needs of the BiH institutions, the needs of the accommodation of the DKP is represented abroad, and only for these two items, so the accommodation of the institutions and for the work of the BiH institutions and the DKP network, we set out several dozen million marks annually. And we've been doing that for a few years. I also think that when we discuss next year's budget, we should take these needs into account and plan them, or if I can't, and now how things stand, it's very difficult to put them in the budget frame, but that we should look for ways to finance this. It is possible in the way of debt for these capital investments and what remains and through this budget is not properly treated, and this is the means of returning displaced and refugees. I also believe that the Council of Ministers should come out, within a reasonable period, with one plan to resolve this issue, or how to resolve it in the next, I don't know, three, five years. What are these means, how do you secure them, and what are these sources? But I think what's adopted in this budget, which is that the funds for the return of 300 thousand marks, I don't think they're real, and we just need to go at least to the amount that was in this year. I wouldn't talk about how funds were allocated this year. They have been deployed and their implementation is ongoing and I am confident that it will be very soon, in a few months, a large majority of these funds implemented, of course respecting the procedures that we have prescribed here, and that is, above all, I mean the Public Procurement Act. And what is also very important and important is to note, when we talk about the principles of this budget, that still the most important principles are respected. And this is that revenues and expenditures are agreed not to plan the deficit, that total public spending is being brought into the frameworks of realistically available funds. Also respecting the newly formed institution and its position, it is the Fiscal Council that determines the gauges of public consumption. And with this conclusion adopted by the Committee on Finance and Budget, I think we should look for a solution and seek a compromise. And today I think that we need to adopt principles, and in the next period, it seems to me, as soon as possible, through the amendments, to come to the text of a budget that will be acceptable and to adopt it as soon as possible. Because I think it's a much bigger shame than we don't have a budget, that we don't have it in time, but in that I can't be, and not all the demands will be met, nor will the demands expressed by the Presidency through this proposal, because they, too, I will repeat, are not enough, big enough, enough to solve all the problems that we really need to solve. So, my view, here is one at the end of the proposal, is that we accept the principles, and that, in the context of the debate, especially in this second phase, the amendment, we also task the Council of Ministers to seek a way and propose to the Parliamentary Assembly to resolve these issues, which is, above all, how to provide the necessary funds for the return and how to solve funds for capital investments, above all for the accommodation of institutions and for the accommodation of our DKP abroad, not to pay 19 more rent, but to finally get our own premises. I am convinced that it will also be economically profitable, and this will show one analysis that I expect the Council of Ministers to do. That's it. So I suggest we adopt the principles, and we discuss the details in the second reading, when we get through the amendments to that text that can get most of it here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22820	Dear Representative Remzija Kadrić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22821	It's not a replica. It's perhaps an addition to correcting the wrong quote. When it comes to return, there are some strategies in this refugee ministry, they have this return strategy for the next three years, I think we should either explain it or share this return strategy over the next three years. And that's where it's said in this strategy: about 100 million on an annual basis would be needed to return. As far as the Ministry is concerned, there's another way. So they have certain documents, they need to share it with the MPs that people have in the amendment phase to see what it's all about. Therefore, there are some documents that support what Velimi Jukić was saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22822	Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22823	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I accept what Mr. Kadrić says is a strategy for the return of refugees. But when we had questions here for the members of the Council of Ministers and Answers, then I asked, and even before when they were not here, when there would be a fund for compensation of property, as if it were one of three equal visions for solving the refugee issue. So it is said that the fund has not been formed, so there will be no budget planning. Well, that's always gonna be the way it is. I didn't say that all the funds provided for the return of refugees who have priority are directed to that fund. But will anyone remember that for 13 years, they've done their duty, so let's start with symbolic means. __________? /No microphone turned on Please. There's no way. There's nothing here. So we've always been brought before some final act, we're talking about different strategies, about this, about what, like I wouldn't be happy, and all of you here, if the refugee issue had been solved. 450 families in collective centres in 2008 and 2009, welcome only in RS. When their question is going to be, I don't think there's any more priority questions than that, that people aren't in the sheds without any conditions and I don't know what, etc., etc. But we 20 have never come from all aspects of this complex question and made it clear enough. Anyway, he gets in somewhere before the end of the year, small funds. They're exactly small, let's increase. Which requires income, where it comes from, and how, we'll do it with amendments, so when we can't agree with the amendments, here you are against the budget, here you are against this. We're not people against this. But let's point one way. And as this is a trap, the presidency has suggested. Of course, it is clear to me that the Presidency, by the Constitution, is a proposing. I don't humiliate members of the presidency there who voted over one of the members of the RS. But no matter how much they worked on making this budget, I've worked so hard. So I went through all those items, and I took part in them, and I haven't seen them yet. Prepared by the Ministry, forwarded to them, they're a formal promoter, which I respect, according to the Constitution. But when are we going to respect the institutions that we establish? Here, we've established a Fiscal Council, which we've all complained about needing, we need, it's going to solve these problems and now we don't admit it. Well, really, as long as this parliament entertains itself of misery and then drags others into this whole story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22825	Dear Representative Velimir Jukić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22826	Here, I'll do it very briefly. Mr. Kadrić said, so there is a return strategy. It is precisely me who refer to it when I said earlier that we should be in charge of the Council of Ministers to present a plan, a programme for the insurance of funds for the implementation of this strategy. So she's about 500 and a few million marks in the next three years. I said a period of three to five years, but let's see exactly what the sources, dynamics are and then create capacities institutional that can be quality, whether it's the current Return Directorate or some other, and that we're additionally capacitating them, to ensure that this strategy is realised, that's exactly what it is. And therefore, I will repeat, even what the Presidency has proposed is not enough and does not provide the necessary dynamics for the implementation of this strategy. And that is why we need, as he has already said, to repeat this, to adopt the principles, and in the second phase to adopt the budget and ask the Council of Ministers to make a plan for the implementation of this strategy.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22827	Dear second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22828	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers! So, the debate on the budget that took place in the previous days with various statements on television, in this commission, is devising work here in Parliament and explaining now its views on this. I want to make it clear how the SNSD will behave in the coming period, in order to maybe make it easier for some who are still thinking about supporting this budget here or not. 21 We believe that the way he came, I would not call this a budget but a list of wishes from the Presidency, has made it clear that we are voting for this budget today, with the Commission's opinion that this conclusion has been adopted. It is purely pragmatic thinking, knowing that there are no members of the Kolegijum here in connection with the alignment and all those activities that we have to do in the Rules of Procedure, which we did not vote for the principles of the budget, but we supported the Prudish Agreement and we gave the chance, supported the chance for the Prudish Agreement to live at the first point of its implementation. This is the position of the SNSD, and as far as we're concerned, if we stick to that agreement, we can have a budget in both readings today. If the others aren't ready, we'll go one step at a time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22829	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22830	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! There's one saying: when foreign mercenaries and domestic traitors join together, there's a white state. It is understood, please, that this does not apply to those present, that there may be no error and that there may be no replica, that someone may consider who is a foreign mercenary and who is a domestic traitor. That's why I said it doesn't apply to those present. But there are people who don't see certain things from the perspective of reality, reality and existence. There are people who say: it's a little bit isolated for the economy, and it's true that it's a little bit isolated for the economy; it says it's a little isolated for refugees, and it's true that it's a little bit isolated for refugees; but when you look at the structure of the state that it's made, it's a disaster. Then more than any possible profit takes at least 70% to support the vast administration that exists. I was the Minister of Cantonal, I was on a federal level, and I know what a huge machine it's supposed to hold all these budgets. But here's the debate whether the fiscal council is right or the presidency, or, I don't know, someone else. With one small goodwill, which would be 2 – 3 percent at all levels of government from municipality to state, there would be no question at all about the existence of this budget or the creation of these, some say, unnecessary costs or costs that will result in this. With that tiny figure, we could save more than 300 million marks, and here is the finance minister who was the finance minister at the state level, I also believe on the cantonal, and who knows how much is being realized for which budget and how it's being realized. But I got up most for one thing. We always talk, and every year we talk about refugee returns, and whenever we make a budget, then we spend most of our resources on refugee returns. Then where's our morale? So where's what we've been declaring, and where's what we need to do? I didn't see that on any level, from community to state, it was cut for wages. If 2%, if 3% were cut by wages, there would be no need to discuss whether 109 million should be given to refugees or not. I think you should give 200 million for refugees. And it should come, if we want to do what we have to do, which is 22 people who need to get back to their hearths, so from anywhere, then there's never enough resources to help these people. One occasion when I was a minister, I suggested, in one government, that we single out 2% of all salaries to solve refugees, and then they said to me, "Don't say that, that's Tito's words, because he also set up 2% for Montenegro, and made Montenegro a state." And that's true, and that's true. He singled out huge funds with 2% that could restore Montenegro after the earthquake. If he hadn't done it, Montenegro wouldn't be an independent state now. There'd be some hole in there that couldn't even survive. That is why I say, in this reading, I believe that principles should be accepted, what the Commission has proposed should be accepted, and it should be considered whether and where to cut this proposed budget. I'm not absolutely into getting laid by any of the refugee returns budgets. For them, I think there's still more to be allocated funds, and that's no demagogy at all. We remember whether it's Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak or anyone, so look at those people who live in collective accommodations. Is it not a shame that we do not resolve it? And we can settle with goodwill and with all those who vote. And no one will be threatened. Neither the Federation nor the cantons nor the RS will be threatened. It won't be a threat to the state either. We can, if we want to, and if we agree to do it, and we keep saying we should do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22831	Dear Representative Bakir Izetbegović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22832	Oh, actually, an explanation. So we won't be for this second-reading budget unless we unequivocally conclude, a decision in charge of the state with cca 400 million for return purposes in the next two years. We're not gonna back this budget. And we're for 400 million marks. To finally do something for those refugees in the next two years. I've spoken to people at the Council of Ministers. They appreciate that it shouldn't be any problem. That it will be relatively easy to come up with that amount and that these funds, because we can't set aside such a significant sum from the budget that we can solve this problem, but this way it can be solved, because we're going to have some grace period and then we're going to return it ten years later. So we're going to pay 20 to 30 million a year. We're going to solve this relatively easily, one huge problem in the country, which will then open up a series of other important problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22833	Dear Representative Branko Dokić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22834	Well, it's a replica to Reverend Ajanović. We all verbally advocate the achievement of larger funds for return, etc., etc. But I would like to remind you that nearly 39,23 million marks for this year at the Fund for Development and Return are not in circulation just because the Federation of BiH has not paid a single mark to the Fund, and everyone else has realised it. So, I would like to say that when it comes to being honest about it and looking in an honest way for methods and ways to help these people and to actually create means for the realization of this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22835	Dear Representative Ekrem Ajanović, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22836	Since I first wanted to replicate to the respected Izetbegović, I will support his idea, but provided... that the government's budget is in charge and that these funds go to the Fund, means through the Ministry of Civil Affairs, for the jobs that are intended for it, because then those funds will definitely come and then we will certainly get those funds. And if we go formal, we'll be in charge of refugees, that cat about the tail, to apologize for the expression. And now to Mr. Dokić. I thought I'd replicate it more than once today, but thank Bog I didn't, because sometimes my temper is like that, and then I'm sorry to replicate to certain people, so I'd better say this to their faces when we meet. But here I want to tell him that he has no reason to replicate to me at all, because I said, because I was never a minister in the RS, I was a minister in the Federation, and I said, in the Federation, where we are talking about coming back, that we did it right. So my speech wasn't directed against the RS or anyone else, but it was focused on us having enough resources because we have a huge administration. We have a huge administration, I guess that's where we all agree, because of the structure of the state, that we can, with a small percentage reduction in certain items, find enough resources to help a lot of refugees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22837	Replica, the esteemed representative Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22838	I will replicate my colleagues to Izetbegović and I will say that I will support his proposal for conclusions, but I will not be glad that, after a while, his club does not again support the formation of an investigative commission if these money is misused.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22839	Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović, replica. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22840	I don't know if it's a replica to respected Professor Ajanović, but I'm glad he accepted what the SDA Club said as an idea to solve the refugee problem and see that there are little recognition of the ideas and good ideas of the SDA, when it comes to solving the overall problems in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22841	Your Honor, may I have your attention, please? You who apologized, listen to others who would say something. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22842	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I have listened carefully to the discussions so far, and I am particularly pleased that here today, on several occasions, support has been highlighted, in the first reading, of the Bill on Budget, which the Bureau has delivered as an authorised promoter in parliamentary procedure. And I am particularly pleased that everyone is aware, at least according to the discussions, of the specific weights of concern for refugees, the work of state institutions etc., and I am very pleased that there is indeed enough feeling here that the corrections made by the Presidency by increasing the entry for refugee returns and strengthening state institutions have come across general support here. And here, let me express my satisfaction, especially this plebiscite support which I hope will follow by voting on the principles of this budget proposed by the Presidency. And since, as I could conclude, everyone here is here for a return, for the sooner the problem of refugee returns, strengthening state institutions, etc., there is a general consensus that these problems are resolved, the principles of this budget are adopted, I would suggest that we go immediately today with another reading and that we adopt this budget immediately in the second reading. So, Chairman, I had a need to propose this and draw attention to the following. You mentioned at the beginning of today's debate, among other things, the discussion of an MP from the Party for BiH Club, that only before us were the proposal of an authorised proposing, so the Presidency, the Bill on Budget Institutions, and that you did not do the same later when others mentioned other proposals which were, and the first proposal of the Council of Ministers, and the Prudish Agreement, etc. I ask you to remind all MPs in the future that we are discussing a budget that has come from an authorised proposing and that any changes, in accordance with some agreements, agreements, etc., mean agreeing to some compromises in terms of reducing certain items of the budget proposed by the Presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22843	The discussion was answered by the chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić. Here you go. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22844	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I honestly didn't mean to discuss this issue, because what I said at the beginning, I thought you'd appreciate it. Today we are only discussing the principles, I have calculated, here, what is the composition of the Commission that supported the principles, with the conclusion that it is proposed, that there is sufficient basis for us to go through this first reading and that all that we have said here today in the amendment phase through the amendment. Amendments which may mean a reduction in the existing budget framework and amendments which may mean an increase in the proposed framework. However, listening to all these discussions and, I must say, above all, to all the plebiscite care of the return of the exiles, I must, and for that I answered for the debate. As the return of the exiles persisted, there has always been in all institutions, in all parliaments, such a declarative concern about the return of the exiles. Unfortunately, we know how many have returned because of that concern. And we know how much they enjoy today the support of those who dare to return. And I always get angry when I listen to this story, with all due respect, that looks like one fierce dispersion of demagogy and collecting the cheapest political points to people who live today as second-class citizens in their own country. Because we, who declarely support them, wherever we go, depends on where we are at local level, we try to make their lives worse and try to make that return impossible. We're trying to get them to go back to where they came back. It's not a matter of money needed to return and let's not fool ourselves or the returnees. It wasn't a question of money until now. It was a matter of our sincere will to really enable everyone to live where they wanted to live, where they lived, and where they lived naturally. What did we, each of us, do to make it possible for the people who came back, except for the poor roof over their heads, often five times smaller than they had, to make it possible? How many have been employed in the institutions of the state government, from local to highest level, where they worked? How many have been employed in public enterprises and institutions? How many have returned to the principal positions in schools, kindergartens etc., etc., where we are wondering and where we are sitting? So, everyone for their environment, let's have a fair look? And don't, it's not this 30 million. It is that 30 million cannot solve the problem of coming back. We're gonna fight hard about 30 million or 50, maybe 500, and that's not the solution either. I personally think that the money itself, whether there are 10, 50 or 550 million KM, will not solve the problem of returning to BiH. I would like the return strategy of the Secretary-General, or the Council of Ministers, to propose to this House, so that we can discuss this strategy. If we even knew now, here's when we're discussing that 10, 20, 30, 50, or 550 million, where's the money going to be? What are we gonna do with that money? Are we going to achieve a few roofs over our heads and people who are in misery where we should live normally? How do we hire them? How are we going to ensure that we can live up to every man's dignity? Do they have such projects? I have to say, I don't believe they do, because I've never seen one of those projects realised before. So, no such project. Only if we haven't thought of any projects in the last three months or the last 15 days since we've been discussing the budget. We remember the returnees when we discuss the budget. And I remember the debate last year. That's when we remember it and start bidding and collecting political points on them. 26 I must say, here, don’t blame me for misusing both your time and your time here, but it’s no problem whether there will be less or more funds. Of course, there is no programme realisation without the resources of the appropriate ones, nor this programme. I would like to, I think, that distinguished representative Nanić, is gone, suggested last time a plan for the BiH institutions' accommodation. We haven't got it yet. Let's see how much we really plan to place it. If I wasn't bidding, I'd like to know now that plan and know if I need a new building for the Council of Ministers. Should I or shouldn't I? But that's what the Council of Ministers needs to tell us. A lot of people tell me, like this in some kind of cult talk, there's not enough space. You in every session of the Expansive College ask when the Council of Ministers will move out of this building of ours where we sit, so that we can create conditions for every MP? Where are we going to move them? They say they don't have room where anyone should. So he needs a new building. If he needs a new building, how much money does a new building cost? I can't go on the road. Clearly, I can't go on the road. But we need to know, right now that we're discussing the budget, how much money it takes to secure and get into the investment, to bury a new building for the Council of Ministers, the government, as you will call it. So we don't have that either. And yet we will now be politically dissipated, collecting some points, someone more concerned about the state, someone less, and basically everyone will be right and no one will be right. How long do we need to develop a diplomatic-consular network? I remember the rationalization debate, so I don't know now either. Maybe South America doesn't need an embassy of BiH somewhere, and maybe it does. That's the entire continent of one. That's what they need money for. Whether the proposed budget provides enough resources for us where we need to, where our foreign-political priorities are, we have adequate diplomatic and consular representations. What about Brisel? We have been talking for three or four years, at least here as we are here, two years as we are in Parliament, how we need to address the issue of the accommodation of our mission there and all of our diplomats who should now be at least one five times more than there are in Brussels today, and we are talking about Europe, European integration, etc. How much we pay for rent here in Sarajevo, etc., etc.? But we would have to, I must say, really long before the proposal for an act, called the Budget Law, is on the table, if we talk about plans, so today we would have to talk to arguments, not bid some amounts for which everyone can offer an argument, and for which each one can offer a counter argument again. So, because we don't have a set game rules and then there's a possibility, each of us, depending on the case to the case, is presenting to him at a given time. And because of all of this, I suggest we all here adopt a proposal for the principle of the Bill on Budgets in the first reading. I'm going to answer to my dear colleague Azra, and I must say, she's not the other way I'd say it. It is clear to anyone who can read that today we have only one draft law on the BiH Budget and clearly that the other one and we cannot have, it is very clear. I'm some, trying to be well-intentioned to warn them not to walk, we just have a proposal from the presidency. Dear Minister of Finance, Mr. Vrankić, is here out of respect for this parliament. But he's not the proponent of this budget. Whether it's logical or not, it's a story for constitutional reform, which, if Bog does, we will sometimes speak in this House. It would make sense for me that he defends the draft Budget Law. However, it would be logical for him to be defended by whoever proposes it. Unfortunately, whoever suggests it, we don't have a representative of that institution here today to defend it. To defend what we're finally fighting about here. 27 So, I propose that we adopt the draft Budget Law in the first reading, with the Opinion and the conclusion of the committee in charge, and in the amendment phase, to give in to both rationalities and desires, and to our own estimates, we may grow to a few hundred million and maybe a few hundred million. But we're going to have a chance to plead in phase two, so we don't spend any more time here and patience on each other. Thank you very much. Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22845	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, in a way, I feel called. Not wanting to politicise this issue, it is the worst service in this problem that is being discussed, but since it has been mentioned several times, in several discussions, the issue of this strategy, I can only say that more than a year has been done to this strategy, the revised return strategy, in which both ministries have participated entity, in charge of this issue, all levels of government, state ministry, international all organisations, 50 different NGOs, etc. And after all, the revised Return Strategy 2009-2011 was established in June. A year. We put that document in public debate. She received support at all instances of what was going on and this strategy was sent at the 10th month, here is your official document, to the Council of Ministers for adoption, and then to Parliament. However, I can even tell you that on the Committee on Internal Policy this strategy has received support and passed as such. However, we have intervened twice more in the meantime towards the Council of Ministers, even today to put it on the agenda. She hasn't been put up yet. I can say that, even with regard to these new extension initiatives until 2014, the Ministry has responded to this document, thus identifying the problem, recommendations and proposals for measures to improve access to the refugee plan, displaced persons and returnees. So, as far as this strategy is concerned, it is strictly, in detail, namely 47,000 families who want to return to their homes. That's 153,000 people. The funds necessary for that purpose have been calculated. There's everything in this strategy. In addition to the 2000 strategy, the way it is resolved, other modes have been proposed. So, in addition to singleing out all levels of government to be used both from privatization and from, also, international credit funds etc., that I'm not talking about not politicizing here, because it's actually coming back as a boomerang, whatever more that's said. There were also certain contradictions, inconsistencies about the realization. The document on the implementation of this year's budget was also delivered to the Council of Ministers to be sent to Parliament, where data were presented by decision-making of 4 months for reconstruction, from 5 months for collective buildings, from 6 months, I don't know, about the sustainability of returns, in the 9th month of the Condominium Decision, etc., etc. All resources are focused, they're in the realization phase. The president of this financial committee said what procedure it was. Therefore, this nine-member commission makes decisions on quotas and means of targeting funds, municipalities implement, so they question a public call, etc., later to conduct a tender, the Ministry monitors, and all is being paid through the Return Fund. So this is the scheme prescribed by law, which 28 first passed by a high representative, and then this assembly passed that law and the procedures in implementing these issues must be respected. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22846	I thank the Honorable Minister Halilović. The next, on the list, has been reported for discussion, is the distinguished representative of Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22847	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, although my colleagues have already spoken, given the course of discussion that went in the meantime, I would just like to say a few words to clarify our overall views. We have already been said, and we have declared, as a club, that this is one minimum that guarantees that normal functioning of institutions can be discussed, i.e. the establishment of finally those institutions that have already been adopted by the decisions of this Parliament. We believe that this amount of a billion-and-two hundred-million budget, I'm talking about this part of funding, conditionally speaking, of an institution passing by, I'm not talking about this part now that concerns external debt service, because what they say is that if we don't adopt the budget, we should do it. If we were to put an end to all this, we should again be provided with the funds of those 5.5 billion marks that are going to be collected in the framework of this year through the Directorate for indirect taxation of VAT. So we have a lot of objections to some internal structure within this billion and two hundred million, as far as the Bill on Budget Institutions is concerned. There are a lot of things that we think can be distributed differently in the amendment phase. But this increase of two hundred million marks that have been given, compared to what the Fiscal Council has been through, is, if nothing, a good sign from the point of view of what the structure of the two hundred million is. It is, first of all, about funding activities that are not wages, electricity, costs, travel orders, etc. In this two hundred-million-dollar structure, the presidency has increased the proposal it received from the Fiscal Council is about the quality of two hundred million that are really talking about funding the functions that BiH institutions need to carry out. This amount of 97,533,000 for refugee returns, which is brutally different from the initial 300,000 marks, speaks in fact about the function of the implementation of Annex VII. So this 97 million is not for salary increases, it's not for increased travel costs. What bothers us, if it was already considered that these billions and two hundred are not quite real enough, people, yet we have some increases within what was proposed by the Fiscal Council, which objectively only talk about the increases that are, above all, to maintain the administrative apparatus. Take an example, I only say, the amount of the increase in the gross fee totals about 30%, the amount of the increase in travel costs is about 40%. These are not increases that are in the function of realising some programs like these two hundred million that are here. Also, here we have, conditionally said, something that is rational to the end. This proposal, given by the Presidency, speaks of an additional 12,600,000 marks for, conditionally speaking, buying 29 for the purposes of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but for the need of the state, for the need to buy diplomatic and consular representations. Why it's rational doesn't need to be specifically explained. You have that calculation, and I'm sure if the Treasury Department got the green light, politically green light, to explain this to us, I'm sure it would be easier for them to explain why we're buying real estate out there now than to explain why we're not buying it. I understand them completely. I particularly understand the situation of a delicate one where the finance minister, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers, has, on condition, one problem that is quite logical in politics, would be easier to explain some of the things that he has to explain here in another way, because he defends the political position, which is completely understandable. But 12,600,000 is rational to invest now in the purchase of real estate in some countries in a situation where it is known that next year will be a year in which real estate will be better bought outside than in two or three years. And these pay increases and travel expenses, which we're going to spend here, we can leave for another time. Let's see how we can separate the funds so we can do household business with whatever number it is. Then take the 58,200,000 figure that is given for, which is proposed here, for the Ministry of Defence, to form some NATO standards. You know very well that we have a problem otherwise – I'm sure there is a problem here, that, by any chance, the Minister of Defence and Foreign Affairs could certainly speak in favor of this issue – that otherwise we have to put pressure on a certain part of the social product to invest for these funds, i.e. to achieve NATO standards, because tomorrow our transition is qualitatively new, from the Partnership for Peace to some new status and requires very much certain investments. So I guess if we started talking this way, it'd be a lot simpler for us. So, these two hundred million, what I'm saying is, these two hundred million that are proposed here are much easier to explain than many of the billions and one million that are in the initial proposal. So we think, if we want to help win the budget, although it's a little unclear which majority will adopt, but in order to become clear which majority will adopt it, let us not waste time, we are ready today to support in the first reading, just so that through the amendment phase we will try to reach one budget, which, in the end, you will have some ideas that will be a little strange for us, so maybe we won't agree on. But we really invite you, here as people who want to act constructively, indeed, with the full respect of the differences you have among yourselves, we want to help you, I think that, as they say, we don't waste time. This can be done again, now that this is not over or that we are looking for a new time, again some parliamentary majority that may not have a majority in the presidency will. The only way to get to the budget is to let go of the first reading and then to change the way some parliamentary majority around the budget works. That's why it's our suggestion not to exhaust ourselves too much. We have very specific examples, we also have positive examples. I hope if I compliment someone here, I won't cause him any trouble. But you have an institution here, and it's exactly the institution I often have problems with, here, for example. Intelligence is an example of household behavior in the Budget. When you see how many people are in the first six months -- I'm getting the circumstances in the Mirko Commission, so I have insight into it a little bit more and I see exactly -- when you look at the first six months they spent from the budget last year compared to how much they planned, you see that people planned how much they would spend. Plus, minus. Look at the structure and you'll see. Right, Šemso, there were fewer or 30 more, you have some other ministries and some agencies in which you have in the first six months the fulfillment of 5% or 280%. Something's wrong, I think. If you meet a 5% or you have another example of non-domestic business, like the Foreign Investment Agency, so look, in the first six months, they spent 250% of the planned for the whole year. I don't know what the auditors are doing here, it's a special question, I guess we'll talk about it. You have, too, an example of the Agency for Foreign Investment Promotion, a typical example of non-domestic business, a typical example. Two million were planned to help foreign investors for a year. For the first six months, everything has been spent, and the other six months, dear Bog knows what he's going to come up with, and we haven't made a single mark for domestic investors, even with a gesture of goodwill, to help or domestic exporters. I really think that in phase two we're going to come up with a concrete proposal, but I'd like the competent security minister to tell us what he's thinking of doing with law enforcement, police reform. My colleague Bešlagić was already talking about it. We expect your imputes, because yet six months ago we got a Stabilisation and Association Agreement because, if it is, we'll have police reform, so we'd better see if we're up to something next year on the subject of this police reform to implement, here I see there's no mark here. Why isn't there anything for the Information Society Agency? Probably because today we might adopt it, or today we may have it, or when the House of Peoples confirms it, we'll have it, but it's more or less known about where we're going, and there's no one here in this budget. So it would be good to use the time, as little exhaustion as possible, to come through, to go through the first phase, to get you to choose and see who objectively thinks about adopting this, which parliamentary majority. I honestly think that, so it wouldn't have turned out that I was getting too close to this which is no longer going to be replicated, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees is a typical example in which it is necessary to support what it says in this budget, and it needs to be changed by the people who realized this. And that's what we need to talk about. It's not natural to go looking for new funds, you're not able to use it, and then explain why someone else did it to you. With all due respect, what's here...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22848	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22849	I'm bringing the end. I think, Mr. Chairman, you should think about it. This is what I propose to those who are trying to find a common denominator, there is no need for us to promise each other, when we discuss the budget, to find a favourable loan or to issue bonds from the Council of Ministers. This is the right time for you to tell us in the next 15 days until you adopt the budget what you're going to do with these two? And who's the bearer of that? And in the end of the 90 million that's planned here, so let's see that it's put up as a deposit for an international loan, and not that we spend it right now, because then we can really, if you're serious about getting a loan, if you're serious about broadcasting bonds, then let's separate 100 million and raise it on the basis of that, that we know who's in charge of the loan and how, we're willing to support it. But we're not ready to support, 31 to be very clear, this budget that's come to us from the Fiscal Council, because it's actually leading us in a completely wrong direction, unless you're just looking for time to summer, which will be much warmer this year, they say, not because of the ozone hole.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22850	Replica, distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22851	You see, I've been listening here for about 11 minutes to a fellow Lagumdžija who said we shouldn't deal with details but principles and that we should get over this as soon as possible, adopt principles, move on, and then he's been doing so much, he's put so much detail into his discussion that only if they're not some detailed principles he's been talking about, so now I'm no longer clear here. So, SDP? The SDP Bureau member is the legislator of this law, and the SDP has significant objections to the income schedule. The bill promoter, a member of the BiH Party Presidency -- I was under the impression that people would not support this budget, as they discussed here today, so I really don't understand. So, if we've made out who's for the budget, who's not for the budget, and we are all clubs, I don't really see the purpose of these discussions as was the current discussion of my colleague Lagumdžija. Of course, a colleague won't be angry, he could've gotten that round all of us here and put those numbers in two minutes, and not in 11 minutes, and he would've achieved, believe me, a bigger effect. At least with me, he'd have a bigger effect, and surely it's important for him to have a bigger effect on me.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22852	Dear Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22853	Well, it's not a replica, it's a misstatement. I, I hope, was very clear that we support the Bill on Budget Law of the Institution which came from the Presidency in the first reading, and we have suggested that we go immediately with adoption and in the second reading. So, I'm surprised that Mr. Novaković has come to some wrong conclusion, or something different. And in that sense, here, if I have to back it up again, that is, repeat my full support for the Bill on Budget, which came from the Presidency, at least as far as the Party for BiH is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22854	With the Commission's opinion. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22855	Thank you. 32 It seems that my colleague and I reacted very quickly somewhere, but she was faster, so one part of my replica she had already said. So I don't know what could have led to the conclusion that the BiH Party won't support the principles, because we all said we would. And as my colleague said, not only are the principles but we are ready today to adopt this budget, but here. But since I've already called to take advantage of my opportunity for replication. So, in addition to supporting the principles, I suggest that we don't talk much about details, talk about principles, and I think it would be fair to allow the finance minister to give his opinion on the Budget Law of the Institutions, maybe we'd be easier to talk less. And the third thing, to say that I'm really pleased to hear what my colleagues in the U.S.A. said, and I understand that they are also willing to support this budget proposal, especially the part that concerns refugees, which is a very pleasant surprise to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22856	Thank you. Replica, dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22857	I thank my colleague Novaković for trying to clarify to himself whether it was detailed principles or the principled details I was talking about. This was about details that illustrate the principles that we stand for. Because, otherwise, if it's only about principles without one detail that will practically explain that principle, then it's not at all principles with which we're serious, it's principles that we're hiding to bring down exactly something because of the details. You know that in principle in this country the devil never lay in principle but mostly in detail. Examples are fresh, very present, very good as an illustration. The Prudish Agreement became a problem when it came to explaining the principles. The three documents that were made a few days ago came into detail as an explanation of these principles, so they entered into new principally detailed problems, and now, when they start to translate the details into concrete even more detailed principles, only then will everything go into quite unencipile details. Why, Mr. Novaković, did I want to explain these two hundred million? Because I thought that two hundred million, which the presidency accurately and taxed, deserved a little more serious elaborate, just so that someone didn't think that they fired two hundred million. And why, in order to avoid misunderstandings, why, I am now speaking on behalf of a member of the Presidency that I consulted him to ask him what they were doing and how they were doing this, so I realized from that, that they were just trying to help Parliament, that the presidency was not a narrow throat, because the Presidency has no budget without the constitutional role of the Presidency. The presidency had to go out with something, the presidency could have taken so that the initial proposal of a billion and 100 million basic costs without serving a foreign debt, they could have entered into detailed restructuring and billions and hundreds, but with these two hundred million they made it very clear in which direction we need to look further for a solution, just to escape the unnecessary waste of time. Because in the end again, it's a matter of some ruling coalition 33 to iron out those billions and a hundred or maybe a billion and three hundred. And will be determined for the administration to finance or administer and some needs through that administration. So, I'm sorry, Mr. Novaković, if I've been vague to you, but knowing your lucidity, I doubt it's clear to you when someone's talking to you vaguely, let alone when someone's telling you clearly.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22858	The next is for the replica, Ambassador Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22859	I am in this House the first term. There are MPs sitting here, and today on the agenda, we have this budget, according to me, the most important document that the House brings. And all those who say that we, well, want to bring today, we're here to bring today, and here we are to bring this budget today. But all of you who talk like that know in advance that he won't pass. Well, don't, it was known when the presidency voted that they wouldn't get any support in this house either. And now you're playing with a basic document that needs to be adopted at this home. By the way, you're playing with the state. I think that maybe I'm being too honest, so I'm saying that, but if we play politics that way and we want to get the country into one maybe difficult situation in the next budget-free period, let's play. __________? [[microphone is not enabled]] I'm making my point. There's no need for anyone to replicate. I'm replicating the game on the Bill's proposal for the Budget of the BiH institutions. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22861	Please listen to each other. Today we were going to finish this session. Replica, honourable Ambassador Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22862	The Honorable Deputy Chairman, fellow Members and fellow MPs, my replica, in fact, blames the allegations, referring to the correction of the false allegations of the honourable MP Zlatko Lagumdžija. In fact, the presidency did not respect the principles of adopting the BiH institutions' 2009 budget. The first and basic principle that was violated was the framework budget document from 2006 to 2009 where the principle was absolutely drastically violated by 36%, so compared to even set by the Fiscal Council of 12%, not in particular and not disputing the need for the Presidency to propose, in fact the constitutional law of the Presidency is to propose, as a draftr of the budget, but respecting these principles. 34 Also, without disputing a single item, I will not enter into details, I absolutely feel that it is necessary to be sensitive to the problem of returning and the situation of refugees and displaced persons. But please, as BiH prepares for next year, as a year of global and severe economic crisis, when it proposes an increase in the budget of institutions that are neither social or developmental. Is that an item of about 60 million when it comes to the Ministry of Defence that it meets NATO's obligations? Well, I guess I would understand that we have foreseen an increase in the item of the European Integration Directorate, for certain ministries that have the post, but the Ministry of Defence can fill this item in another way. Does BiH, no matter how armed forces are, need so many Armed Forces, fully unprepared and untrained for NATO standards or reduction and savings on this basis or a real location of funds in terms of meeting NATO's obligations? Also, BiH, when it comes to investment in buildings? True, it is of particular importance when it comes to diplomatic and consular representations, but I will not enter these details, a diplomatic and consular network of BiH in the world needs to be considered. Whether we need all these diplomatic and consular representations, whether some of them have been abolished unwarranted and why and whether it is more important for us now to strengthen human resources and capacities in BiH's representation, etc. I won't, every time I talk about it, there's an opportunity to say that I'm against the state of BiH. I am in favour of strengthening all the capacities of the BiH state but also of something that is completely and completely normal. We can't take two hundred million so unrealized,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22863	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22864	I end up chairing, irrationally deployed, taking away lower levels of government that have responsibility and for the social development component. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22865	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22866	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to speak objectively about this document that is before us today, so as things are, without any twisting and without any politicisation, and it seems to me that a good part of today's debate is marked by this very last word, the characteristic that I have spoken, so by politicization. And that's normal when the budget is adopted, governments fall on budgets, governments are supported on budgets, the budgets are brought down by power, etc. However, we here need to compare, first of all, some facts. First, to know what we are talking about, firstly, this home as well as the House of Peoples, so the Parliamentary 35th Assembly of BiH recently passed the Fiscal Council Act, and that seems to me unanimously after the amendment, right, and we were very pleased when we passed this law and formed an institution that should determine the frameworks of the BiH budget, when it comes to the Single Account. The second thing, which is also very important in all this, is that the Fiscal Council made a decision on the budgetary frameworks and, as I recall, after that meeting of the Fiscal Council, everyone was pleased. The only dissatisfied state finance and vault minister, Mr Dragan Vrankić, was. But then, I remember Mr. Vrankić's statement at the time, he said he was surprised or dissatisfied, especially with the position of representatives from the Federation of BiH entity. When we talk about the Budget of BiH, it is inevitable that things are being observed now after this Law on the Fiscal Council, and so far, and especially after this, they must be observed bound, because that is how the Fiscal Council sees it, and that you of this framework, agreed by representatives of both BiH entities and the Brcko District of BiH, in order to disrupt this scheme now, to change it, you have to say how. So it must be handled now and by the Federation, it must also be addressed by the RS, it must also be addressed by the Brcko District of BiH, if we want to fix up this framework established by the Fiscal Council. I, among other things, am engaged in the Budget, among other things, and the Federation of BiH and I, as far as I can see, are standing there so that and what is planned and what is envisaged will be insufficient and therefore, for the first time I say it, may not be surprising to the view of the Federation of BiH when the debate was held on the Fiscal Council. The BiH Council of Ministers, the next position of the Fiscal Council, established one draft or draft, call it whatever you want, whether so, a document called the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations, delivered it to the Presidency and then changed the document by making it possible, and the presidency was the only one who approved the proposal, to propose a greater intervention in favour of the BiH state by 200 million marks. And I wouldn't mind it, I'd be very pleased if we had the opportunity to increase the other budgets in BiH with 200 million marks, but it increased the state budget by 200 million marks, and by increasing this total by 185 million and 15 million from the Central Bank of BiH's indirect taxation account. This 185 million is the money for which, when this budget is adopted, it will be reduced in an appropriate ratio of lower levels of government budgets. I mean, first of all, entity budgets. The BiH presidency has not further elaborated. The needs of BiH have been highlighted. I do not dispute that BiH's needs are such, but I have had the need to say this as objective facts that have been found in formulating the principles and drawing up the Bill on Budgets of the Institutions that are presently with us. The second thing, which is very important in all of this, is that our Commission for Finance and Budget has delivered a Opinion that accepted the principles and then said it owes itself that, together with the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, in co-operation with the restoring ministries, in the amendment phase of the Bill on the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for 2009, with the structure of revenue that would be within the frameworks established by the Fiscal Council of BiH, hence the structure of income within the framework of the Fiscal Council and the structure of expenditure in which they would be respected, within the limits of opportunity, and the proposals of the BiH Presidency. 36 This is the Commission's opinion. The Commission’s opinion contains support for principles and contains this conclusion. And according to article 106. The Rules of Procedure – and that thing is already in the beginning we need to clear up and know about it – so it is said in Article 106 (1) "The debate in the House begins with the first reading on the principles on which the draft law is based and the necessity of law-making according to the opinions of the Constitutional Commission and the committee responsible from the first phase of consideration." This means that the Bill on Budget is the BiH institution that is presently in front of us and the Opinion is now one document, and when it is voted on in the first reading budget then it is also voted for this document, and let it be clear to all those who try to interpret this matter differently. And that means when it is voted that then Dom, if this passes, supports the principles and owes the Commission that together with the Ministry of Finance and Resort Ministries, a solution that will satisfy the structure of income under the Fiscal Council and the structure of expenditure, as far as possible, as it writes here, according to the BiH Presidency. Now, this is the situation where we are at the moment and, so that we can talk about this further, I have nothing more to do than ask you to invite the Minister of Finance, Mr Dragan Vrankić, to tell us what is possible in the existing relations to do, so that we can also meet the needs of the BiH Presidency in its proposal, which is different from the draft that went to the Bureau from the Council of Ministers. As far as the SDA's position is concerned, the president of our club Mr. Bakir Izetbegović said it was unusually important for us here, and it is related to future processes in BiH, a return item. We think that this item must be significant, that it must be significantly larger than it was last year. What is unacceptable is what has arrived in the initial document of the Council of Ministers, it has gone to the Presidency, it is the shameful number of 300,000 marks, and we believe that this home, in view of future processes, the census, the return programme that is bound, in our view, should decide that BiH should go into credit responsibility when it comes to funds for return. So, without significant means of return, this is what I'm saying to those who say we're talking about principles now, and we don't need to talk about details. I think we need to talk about the details, because that's the Commission's report, we need to know where we are. I want to say that the SDA will support this proposal. Of course, when it is said to support it, it is also the Commission's opinion and... that we will not support the final text of the Budget when it is adopted unless there are significant return appropriations in it, when it comes to, which must be significantly greater than those of last year. When it comes to how credit will be realised, it is certain that the BiH Parliament makes a decision and owes the Council of Ministers and the BiH state is certainly the one to raise and repay the loan. It's undeniable stuff. It's still an operational matter, and the finance minister knows better about it. We talked today about some modes. There are some modalities that don't deal with the common account...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22867	Time! 37
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22868	Here I'm finishing up, so it doesn't come out of the accounts, that there's no disturbance in the billing framework, and I'd like to ask the finance minister today to say something about it so we can see where else to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22869	We've got two more registered representatives to discuss. We will certainly give the Secretary of Justice the opportunity after all the debates if he wants to say something about this issue, knowing that he is not the Proposer of this budget, but we will not deny him if he wants to address it. The next is Honorable Representative Drago Kalabić. _________(?) How long have we been working? Until we exhaust the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22871	I have to say, since I've lost my right to replication, I've moved from this right column to left and using the right to discuss, I've had to do it, given the attitude of some predecessors. Well, specifically, colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović, and I'm glad he's here when it comes to interpreting support. And just now Mr. Džaferović has just said what I was going to say, and... there is support for that attitude and I am glad if she also realized that her and her club support this attitude and this is what my colleague Džaferović was talking about. So, I'm glad if there's any general support for this conclusion that the Finance and Budget Commission has come up with and what we're pleading about and which indicates that we're going to get out of this situation and in the budget story. And if we agree on that, that means they have here, that's what you said, general support for that Commission conclusion, along with everything else that's been said. Because since we've all taken the right to interpret other people's views, here's the right to say, if there's general consent and general support for that conclusion, then we're on a good track. Given that we had here, and it's always normal in these areas, one kind of politicization, one kind of small market, when it comes to the budget, where everyone tries something politically to trade, one saves a party, one leader, one of their own political interests, and one of them seems, and over the budget, they just want to get into power just can't figure out how fast that price of their entry would be, at this point, it's very difficult for me. But well, all of these are legitimate goals. When we talk about the relationship of members of the Bureau, so here's how seriously they've dealt with the budget, that's what they're talking about today. If you were to ask the two members of the Bureau whether a session of Parliament is being held at this point, which speaks of Proposal 38 of the Budget Act, I'm sure none of them would know it's today... and that's saying enough about how they're playing a little bit with this budget. When we had here a story about the Fiscal Council and about the law and unanimous support and need... how we would refer to the budgets in the future and everything that should be declared by the Fiscal Council, then we had one story, but the members of the Bureau had executed, or used their constitutional position and had little to do with the budget in one improvised way and now we have a certain little problem, which I hope we will overcome. When you look at the indexes of budget growth, relations, parameters, balances between the state budget and entity budgets, then you will see how many people in the Fiscal Council decided, however, correctly, made one decision and when there was one general public support that it happened for the first time in BiH, then some made an effort to corrupt it in some way, but I hope with these views, which encourage, that we will eventually come to a solution and that very soon BiH will get this budget of joint institutions and Mr Živković has said on what principles this can happen tonight.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22872	I thank the esteemed representative Kalabić. Replica, a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22873	Thank you. Again correcting the wrong quote, but we have the conflict of Rules of Procedure and technical possibilities, so let me mention, I have drawn general support, or conclusions of general support based on support through discussions of all, from all parties here when it comes to principles, i.e. first reading of the Bill on Budget and the debate on first reading. So, this budget that came from an authorised proposing, i.e. The presidency. Secondly, since you have already mentioned the Commission's opinion and this conclusion by the Commission, if there is anything contradictory to budgetary principles, in particular the principle of balance, this is the conclusion of the Finance and Budget Commission, so pay attention. He says, "with the income structure that would be within the frameworks established by the Fiscal Council," we know what the income structure is, and "with the structure of the expenditure in which they would be respected, within the limits of possibilities, the presidency's proposals". I'll tell you right away to get an unbalanced budget. So, by adopting this conclusion, we would break budget principles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22874	Dear Representative Zlatko Lagumdžija, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22875	Mr. Chairman, given that there have been several debaters here who have called and commented – obviously misread or deliberately commented, however 39 you will – some of the views that we have raised from the SDP, i.e. some of the things relating to my presentation, I would like to say a few things. First, those who are here, conditionally speaking, have sent a message to us who, on the one hand today, are to play with the state. I want to say very clearly – we are for today to adopt this in the first reading and not to move on. And that it's not going to be adopted in the second reading, because for the second reading there's no capacity. So, we're just for that, as serious people, to adopt today in the first reading. Even aware of the fact that this conclusion of the Commission is such that it has two parts. Half of this conclusion is for one, and half of this conclusion is for the other. This conclusion by the Commission is just so that we can take a break until we can figure out which part of these two parts of the conclusion has a parliamentary majority. So that's why I did it. So that there is no misunderstanding, we believe that the structure of the budget is not okay, the structure, the distribution of budgets. And it's no secret. If two years ago, in 2005, if they are – Mr. Minister, I would just like to, since you are a man that I highly appreciate and I think you are very professional in all of this and you are trying to make a wooden stove once, which is very difficult to do in our terms – in 2005 the income of the budget was 42% of the GDP, in 2007 they were 45.4%. In just two years, GDP percentages coming from budget revenues increased by almost 3.3 index points. So we're going in one direction that doesn't lead us, which is contrary to the definitions that we brought here when we talked about principles. On the other hand, the structure of the budget is such that on one mark, which is in the state budget, there are 11 marks in other budgets. And of those 11 in other budgets, 9 is in entity-cantonal, and 2 is in all local. So 1-9-2. In a country that is a confederate, which has become a strange word with us, such as Švajcarska, one brand from the state budget goes to one brand for cantons and municipalities together, with half-and-a-half divided. So here we play with the political words, and the essence is far from where we are. We are in favour of opening one direction in which the structure of the budget will be, as far as possible, that the state budget will not only be the technical administrative budget, but at least be encouraging somewhere. Well, here I agree with my colleague, Prodanović, that some DKPs are being closed and that some of these couples are investing in buying a building where it's worth buying today, so that we all get better together. When it comes to credit, I deeply respect Mr. Džaferović and I understand his urges, but it cannot be brought. Parliament makes an unserious decision, it is political, if it is a decision – we will be in charge of the refugee loan. It must be known by which program, by whom, under what conditions and in which dynamics. First question - who will we be in charge of? Someone told me at this PBS bank, the IMF Prussian Bank of Three. If that's where you think we're in charge, then that's what we should do.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22876	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22877	write as an integral part of this decision and then we know that's where we take that loan. Which will be the interest, and that should at least be the conclusion of Parliament. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22878	Dear Representative Bajazit Jašarević, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22879	I do not like to replicate but I would like to say that the Finance and Budget Commission would also do its part of the job, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if it were to remain on this first part - the adoption of the principle of law. Because, in the opinion of one group of MPs, the amendments can lead to that budget that has a parliamentary majority. But from the debate at the Commission, it was obvious that we had to deal actively with this problem and that we had voted there on the principle. Without this second part of this conclusion, this would all be pointless today. So today we would have lost position, lost time, and once again we should go all this way with different opinions, depending on the responsibility of whether anyone has the responsibility of position or opposition. This conclusion, second, speaks about the balance of the budget, so it talks about the balance of the budget. Of course, it can be said there that neither the surplus nor the deficit are understood. This feature 'in the limits of opportunity' is what guarantees balance. Thus, the Fiscal Council established a framework, and expenditure within that framework should be planned, respecting the justified requirements of the Presidency, but 'in the limits of possibilities'. I think then, because of that, it would be good for me to say here, when no one else will, that the Finance and Budget Commission had a very responsible approach in that first phase. As it continues, we'll see. So it would be hard to predict how it's going to work today, but if we all make the effort, there's a solution. If we add problems, there's not many roads. There's only one way from his proposal to his final budget. And I call once again to make an effort, to agree, to have this budget of institutions in the next month.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22880	Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22881	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I hope I've made myself perfectly clear. So I said what our position is, the position of the SDA, when it comes to this year's budget and the return item. So I said that the budget must have a significantly higher amount in its structure than the amount foreseen for this year in the budget, and that is the condition under which we will support this budget. And when it comes to the return, when it comes to the loan, we now have one opportunity in BiH, it seems to me that we have come close to it all in BiH, so far we have had different, diametrically different views on the issue, is that, in order for BiH to be in charge, we finally resolve the issue of proper support for sustainable return. Of course it's about the program, that it's a serious decision. There's nothing serious about it, even though sometimes, like my colleague, I get a wish or a need for me to caricate things, and I know that it doesn't stand for me at all, and I'll refrain from it. That's it, thank you. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22882	Dear Representative Lazar Prodanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22883	I'm sorry, but I have to do it again. Dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija has made two false allegations. It is not true that the Budget is the BiH institution 1:11 or 1:9:2. It is 1:7 if we count gross-national income in the current proposal as planned, so compared to total consumption, budget spending of all levels of BiH government. The second question that is extremely significant refers to what we constantly... What if we now had 20, not 20,5 billion Budgets of BiH institutions, if we failed only two items in this year, because we do not have an institutional framework, we do not have an institutional framework, we do not have a constitutional or legal opportunity to transfer those funds. This year we had 3 million to help the institutions of culture and a million and 300,000 for sport and not yet distributed, because there should be a Council of Ministers decision. So if we want to talk about it, then we will talk about it when constitutional reform is carried out, if and how it is implemented and how the new constitution is regulated. It is now so and unnecessary now to deceive the public that the highest consumer is a lower level of government. That is right, the constitutional structure of BiH is impossible to change otherwise. Accumulating funds in Budget would only be more harmful, there would be even more spending on wages and everything that goes, not on development and social protection. So we have no institutional framework, no constitutional, no legal framework, in that sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22884	Dear Representative Sefer Halilović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22885	Since I think that we've spent too much time today and, I dare say, almost unnecessary, because here we all agree that we need to support this budget in the first reading, and then in the amendment phase and later dress up and finish up, so I'm just going to draw attention to a few things and here, first of all, the thought and most talk was about going back and I would like to draw attention to the termological difference both to the MPs and members of the Council of Ministers. I claim that more than 70% or 80% of current budgets, cantonal and federal and state-owned, are not used to return but to stay. Because here, apparently, we have a return in Bosnia, and a stay is read. If that were the case, go ahead and see from Boban and Šushko's village or Neum, from the village flat to the Bijeljina, and you will see that the returnees have far larger and more quality houses, the exiles actually have far higher and more quality houses than those of the people who live there for tens and hundreds of years in these areas. It's impossible to explain in which way and how many houses they've built, and when you look at them, they don't work anywhere, they don't have a job, they don't have this, they don't have hundreds of other things. So, I would like to draw attention here to both the MPs and the Council of Ministers, especially the Minister, and it should really be specified here: if it is the means of return, then be for return, not for staying. According to Dejton, everyone is entitled to choose a place of life, and here we all swear on multiethnic Bosnia, returning everyone to 42 of our own, there-here, when we come to real realization, then we see that it is actually financing the remains, not returning and breaking the substance of what is called BiH. Second question. I really support increasing this financial amount for a return. I'm not in favour of credit borrowing, because now I'm going to remind you all together here that this Parliament has been around for the past two years since this coalition has been in power, somewhere around 2 billion euros of credit on various grounds. My question: Can you do anything on your own, not to be in debt? On the other hand, every day, we finally have the findings of relevant international organisations and institutions that claim BiH is leading in terms of crime and corruption and poverty, which means Europe as well. We all know here, and those who listen to us and those who look at us and those who won't listen to us, that the black market in BiH swallows between 3 and 5 billion marks a year. Why don't we make sure that at least some of those funds, so let's take 10% of the black market, give back, pay taxes, charge customs, charge what's called the black market, give it back. So this definitely needs to be increased, it's just a question of where and how. The third question, which is very important and which is perhaps more important than the amount of money that will be allocated: whether it is 50 or 200 million, is a question and I remind you here, I expected the minister to talk about it, the issue of existing legislation that makes it impossible to return. Tens of thousands of people live in the Federation, or have returned or returned to RS and vice versa, but have been reported by those of the Federation in the Federation, because by returning they lose all rights here that they have. There is a village called Koraj, the whole village is on RS territory, all registered in the Federation. When you ask why, because they lose, when they start to list: pension, social, health and everything else. There is no one else who can change this right now in Parliament except the ruling coalition in the Federation Parliament, we know who the ruling coalition is, there is no need to talk about it, and the ruling coalition that is here. So I was expecting and I expect the minister, as part of this strategy, not only to count the heads he thinks they're coming back or thinks they're staying here. So here you need to very clearly separate your stay and return. If this parliament is talking about coming back, then it's a refund, it's funding a return, not a stay. And I expect the minister here to answer the question and this general return strategy to say when the laws will be changed that will stimulate the return, not prevent the return. Because a whole set of laws has been passed that literally punishes the one who returns and rewards the one who stays, and that's how we spin in a vicious circle. Not to mention what the talk was about, when it comes to the structure of the state government, who came back, what the gentleman is currently chairing Lozančić was talking about, how many directors, how many of these, how many. I'm very proud in '92, '93. year, because I claim that there was between 25% and 30% of Bosnian Srbin and Bosnian Hrvat at the time in the BiH Army, unfortunately today in Sarajevo we only have one director who is Srbin and we can't talk, giving speeches to those from Bijeljina and those from Mostar, until we clean up in front of our house. And when we're done with that story, then we can give every speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22886	A list of persons reported for discussion has been exhausted. Does the Honorable Minister want it? 43 Dear Minister Dragan Vrankić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22887	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22888	Come on, by the time the minister gets here, ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22889	I apologize, I would ask the minister to explain to us the status of these funds for refugees and displaced persons around whom we hear different information. Are these funds that they can be counted for next year and because different terms are being used, so please tell you what status these funds are currently in?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22890	Thank you for your word. First, let me say hello to you all together. Secondly, let me ask you to take the first step to adopt the principles so that we can move on. I feel a little uncomfortable, the first thing that I'm cold, flu, and the second thing that's harder and worse is that as Minister of Finance, I have no mandate to defend today to you this budget, nor am I authorized by the Presidency to do so. In the past few years, at least I've had that, but here's the thing, because these circumstances are like that, I thank you and finally I can say what I think. What I don't need to mention specifically or teach you a special lesson, I think that when you do a serious job, then it comes from the Constitution, from the adopted laws and goes further into procedure. By the Constitution and by law, we know this is called the Budget of BiH Institutions and the service of external debt. The external debt is factually entityal, we just, as a state, carry it on, so let's write it down, it's in fact, it's not..., this is just the Budget of the BiH Institutions. Someone was talking about capacity at first. Now, without exact indicators, the capacity of all the BiH budgets is slightly over 11 billion. One, so below 10%, we'll say 9% is the capacity of BiH institutions. What we need to see further, we're monitoring jurisdiction. What are the competencies that we and we are corresponding to the Constitution and the law are still putting into the budget so that they can normally finance them, so that the state can finance them and I think that it is our basic that we create an ambience, so I also often respond, when they say there are no incentives for the economy, there is no one, but that is why we have entities, which have constitutional jurisdiction and, while respecting this one fact that it is all so, we have come to difficult misery, to the Fiscal Council Act, to complete my hand from the international community for years and from which I, as a member of the Fiscal Council, have been expecting much more and I believe that it has a capital role in fiscal projections within BiH. Unfortunately, the Fiscal Council has not yet taken those instruments, and levers to determine all that is necessary for BiH's macroeconomic policy. The topics in focus, the fiscal crisis, the economic crisis is the real issue and the place of the fiscal council's response. That's what he has to say, gentlemen, we're going to cut the gauges, the 44-public spending frameworks, and we're going to do that. This year we will tighten the belts on these and those items to help the economy, etc. However, the Fiscal Council in that capacity neither debated, nor gave that gauge, we talked only about the budgets, and here we came to the Gabarites who are who they are. To really do something, then I really have to say we have to start with the truth. The truth is it's like in the dark when the light turns on that we have to go from the truth, and in order to do something, then this country has no alternative called compromise. If we're not ready to compromise, then I don't think we're up for this job. At least that's what I think. Like what I said about what I expected from the Fiscal Council, as a member of the Fiscal Council. So, the finance minister, I think, should have in that sense, if not the main role, but then co-ordinating the main role in this entire fiscal sector within BiH. When we discussed this budget, I believe like all other fellow ministers, I would be most fortunate if the whole budget were all 11 billion, if they were mine. That I, as a minister, schedule, manage, share, talk to you and direct it. However, reality and the Constitution are different, and we are where we are, with capacities within the Constitution, that is, within the Law on the financing of BiH institutions. We, in accordance with the law which obliges us, established the draft budget in consultation with the budget users at the 11th month. I referred him to the Council of Ministers, as a responsible man, because I run that ministry, because I waited for the Fiscal Council to meet. Since that didn't come together, I guess I'm 15. 11. already agreed, in one way, this budget with budget users. Meanwhile, the Fiscal Council is meeting to determine the gauges, meaning financial frameworks, budgetary frameworks for three levels of government, i.e. two entities and the state. The Brcko District remained in fact, in another way, aside, but he followed our guidelines that we adopted. True, what I suggested in my budget that I agreed with the budget users was much more than what was adopted by the Fiscal Council. And I was surprised, and again I am telling the truth, Mr. Džaferović pointed it out here, I expected, since often it is politicizing and accusing, let's say, I will now be honest, because I said that if we are not honest, Republika Srpska would not support it, I was not surprised when my Federation colleagues did not support my position. Well, then, so little I stopped, I was and confused, to tell you the truth, for a few minutes, but then when I saw that they had to 400 million marks their budget to cut down, then I stopped down a little bit, so I went down with my shoulders, so wait, that's already a serious thing. I assure you, they don't work rebalancing, they stay in that position, here I see these days they adopt the budget, I think today in the House of the Federation, which is 350 million less than it was in the previous year. It's very serious stuff. So this is what we agreed on on to the Fiscal Council 8 and 12? So the increase in the Single Account 8% for us, and the consumption framework for 12%, in entities 4% and 8%, means for the Federation it means nothing, not 4% and 8%, but below 25%. If they'd done a rebalancing calculation, then they could have spoken 8% on rebalancing. So the rest are uncovered, so here's how much information I have, 300-400 million marks. Under such circumstances, I returned to the ministry, respecting the fiscal council's decisions, made a budget, as I think only an optimal solution for BiH is possible at the moment. For 104 million marks, I put my budget back, which I as a minister, or ministry, with my colleagues budget users in some way agreed and I didn't, 45 to tell you right away, or to meet all their needs, were another 200 million worse. When I did it, how did I do it? Next way. I said no new employment in 2009. Why? Because this year we had 1,500 on schedule to work, and we didn't hire them, but somewhere around 900. There are 600 people left unemployed. I've cut the material costs by 4.5%. Let's save a little bit, let's cut it down a little bit, it can be 4.5% down. So then I said let's cut the regular capital investment by 50%, we don't have to buy chairs, cars, computers, we're going to do a little bit of what the people would say, fall back this year, because that's the situation. So I came to the "Higher Year's Capital Investments", which are not started, and I reduced them so that here I would not only harm some of the agreements that we made with the international community about funding, so I cut them that way. We've reached that number a billion and 55 million. Now, when I look at all this and we've come to the Fiscal Council, we've come to the Presidency, I've taken a stand, my position is known, as you know, but as a responsible man and a member of the Fiscal Council, respecting the law, I've respected the Fiscal Council's Decision of the Fiscal Council, no matter what my position is and what my position was. So in that variant, and I respect the Council of Ministers' decision because, I think, unanimously or one vote, hereSafet to correct me if it wasn't a unanimous decision. In this context, I also talked and explained to the Bureau, and I suggested that a meeting be held with members of the Fiscal Council, and we also held that meeting. After that, the Bureau proposed this budget without our presence, so the way they assessed it. Now let me say one more thing, what's true. We're going to one position and we're creating an ambience who loves, who doesn't like BiH. Here, now it turns out that I love her most, because I proposed most for BiH on one real basis, because I think that's what it can do. What's true, we didn't plan a balanced budget this year, we planned a target deficit of 102 million marks. Why? Because in 2008, I saved, i.e. we didn't know how to spend 102 million marks, and we transfer them to the 2009 Budget, and I'm reducing this number from the Single Account. The other thing, which also stands, we didn't employ 600 other people we were planning to hire, and we discussed last year how we needed more. So the truth is something else. Also, Mr. Kalabić asked me to comment on my return, the means to return. And that's where I'm going to give my opinion. According to my deep conviction, as well as everything else, this ministry of displaced, return, etc. belongs to BiH institutions. as an institution. But, always so far, the return has been on entities. But then it turned out politically, this is my free interpretation, it turns out that entities, as Mr. Halilović said, are little less honest on the way back, so one of them stays, one of them doesn't work, and then the concept is created let's go up at the state level, so we'll do the Return Fund, so we'll iron it easier to eliminate it in such a way. And then, when the World Bank gave us a loan, she said make this fund, make the criteria, and then you'll use those funds and team up with the entities and realize the return as you did that recovery strategy at that point, it's already already realised. But the truth is, in 2008, the brand hasn't even been spent on the ground yet. Remember last year's budget. Don't think that I'm advocating not to approve of the funds now, but to say that this is true. We've realised these funds, so they've reached the Return Fund. The Return Fund has made decisions, made a schedule on the ground and are currently in the public tendering phase for 46 spending of these funds. I mean, it's the real truth about those funds now. So if we hadn't suggested them, we wouldn't be spending them now. I don't think it would be right now if I were to argue with something like that, etc. Here, these are all the truths that stand around it and about the total truth of how all things set up and where we are now in the concept of this budget for 2009. You know what the best budget for 2009 is? The adopted budget. The unadopted budget is another 100 or 200 or 300 million down, in the same way. In our structure accounts for 90%, this one now adopted on the Fiscal Council, 90% are wages and material costs. Only 10% remain transfers and everything that can be called capital investments, etc. Salary and increase significantly from 25% to 30%, depends on how we take and how they reflect the contribution of entities that have further increased our consumption. We passed that law. Whatever anyone wants to say and we've explained here, and we've barely evend ourselves out with entity laws, incomes in entities. Everything beyond that is not true. If that's to be derrogated, gentlemen. Change the law, we'll cut the wages, so we'll focus that part on other things, but I don't think we'll do good for BiH institutions. And this is how professional people go to other levels of government. There are two things left, capital investments left and exiled. In my opinion, there are solutions to that if we're correct, if we want to. First of all, when it comes to capital investment, we talk very little about it. It's our basic task to train the institutions and equip them. Someone mentioned where we're sitting or where we're not sitting. It's a shame to be commented these days, to get hit on my door, Minister, when you're gonna get out!? If I have to, I'll get out. If that's BiH's interest, there's no problem. But in order to work normally, they have to provide people with jobs. Well, we don't have our own space. 30 million marks are rents, 15 real rents that are given to offices and spaces, and 15 is for the Department of Defense because people are in the field so they use, I don't know, accommodations because they're professional soldiers, so I don't know what it's all about, but the real rents of space are 15 million marks. If we want to solve it, and we should want to solve it, there is a solution. I'm asking us now -- what would a country host do if he had to give every year, I don't know, I don't know, 2,000 marks to set up a field for him, and the bank is offering him a loan to buy a 10,000-mark tractor. Well, he'd say, "I'll take a loan in five years for giving away the rent for plowing remains my tractor later." Why don't we do it? The credit that we can raise from the annuity, or rent that we return – in five or ten years, all of our buildings are ours. That's absolutely not what you're talking about, and when I'm talking about it, no one's heard. That's what I said in front of the press, but I don't see them here right now. No Niko's heard. If I had argued with Nikola or Sadović, everyone would have passed it on and everyone would have heard, and that would be news. But when things are constructive, there's no news. And another thing, when it comes to exile. I think there's a solution here, too. Obligation, as an idea, is not bad, but it has its own procedure. We're not in a financial crisis. I was saying, the economic crisis is something else. Investment can help avoid the economic crisis, investment in buildings, in construction investment. So if we invest in return, make houses, we hire construction firms, it's positive for BiH, and we shouldn't be afraid of that responsibility. Investment in our capital investment, same thing. That in that way, on the basis of the costs we already have, I think it's a positive approach. That's how we can solve it. I am convinced that we will get a loan from financial institutions in one period, but it is not in a month, it is a half-year-to-year process to end the whole cycle as we think it is, in accordance with the return strategy, which here, today the chairman said he would be at the next Council of Ministers meeting. 47 And the third, most importantly, which is mentioned today – how to come out of this proposal or the Commission's proposal for finance and budget, which was the other day. I realized, when it comes to the Fiscal Council and the decision on the gauges, then I think that, respecting that I've been to every meeting and felt the spirit of the problem, or what's most tangling us there, and that's the Unique Account – how much will anyone take from the Unique Account. If the state takes more, less remains to the entities. In such a concept, if the entity's position is to be maintained and to allow an increase in the consumption framework, I can propose a solution in the amendments for about 30 million marks to increase consumption, not to touch the Single Account. So, let's not touch the entities, those problems of theirs that must be huge and for which we must have understanding. In this way, we can come to an amendment, in my opinion, and acceptable solutions. So, we need the permission of the Fiscular Council or the responsible people of the policy for that part to increase consumption, a 12% framework to some maybe 14% to 15%, here I didn't count on how much that would be then, and I think that's one of the solutions that can be made, along with all of this, to accept access to duty, to definition, and that's the thing again... it has to be twice the least in this Parliament, and I think that's one of the solutions that can be. Here, in that spirit, if I help, I stand as Minister and Ministry and my associates in disposition to help adopt this budget. The adopted budget is the best budget for BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22891	I thank the Honorable Minister. And since there are no more reports, I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Moving to the second item of the agenda: Ad. 2. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure The draft law referred to in this point to Parliament was delivered on 25.12., with the request for an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. The rules of procedure of this house. According to the Rules of Procedure, we have placed this request in the agenda of this session, although we have, as I have already said, intended to consider only this budget in the first reading. I'm opening a debate on a request for an emergency procedure. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22893	Thank you, Chairman. Here, today I've been able to, among other things, decide to include this item on the agenda. A few days ago, we had the opportunity to hear through the media the explanation of the Council of Ministers' Presidency when it came to the proposal for a law on the completion of the Customs Tariff Act and, keyly, what was defined by the Council of Ministers when this law was adopted, according to the Council of Ministers' Chairman, was to stimulate domestic production, i.e. Sekerana in Bijeljina, and also to bring domestic producers to the same level with foreign competition to bh. The market. With full attention, I read this short bill today, the proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act containing six columns. Here, I'll just draw your attention to the sixth column that speaks of other conditions or conditions, where, among other things, it says that the Council of Ministers can repeat the fixed quotas twice during the calendar year. To remind you, we are practically changing the customs rate by this law, that is to say, bringing a customs burden to zero for a quantity of 50,000 tonnes quota and at the same time, in other conditions, we authorise the Council of Ministers to repeat it, so in the course of the year, that is to say twice, to make the same decision in the course of the year or to fully abolish the established quotas. Therefore, this, in my view, would also be the transfer of part of the legislative powers to the Council of Ministers for the next period, i.e. giving authority to the Council of Ministers to repeat, or possibly abolish, the tariff quota proposed in the parliamentary procedure at this opportunity. For these reasons, I would suggest that we do not support the emergency procedure today, i.e. to allow this law to go into regular procedure or perhaps to a shortened procedure, and the reason more, precisely for these reasons for which I have drawn attention in other conditions, is the reason more so that the Council of Ministers' decision to abolish the tariff quota or possibly repeat it would reduce the average customs burden on BiH which is lower anyway than the countries with which we are taking part in regional economic arrangements. It does not really slow the need to, perhaps, make one such solution, but in order to preserve the average customs burden, we may be able to temporarily increase customs duty to another product, or under another tariff code. So my proposal is not to support an emergency procedure, to go either with a shortened procedure or with a regular procedure, to eventually remove these dangers that I draw your attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22894	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22895	Thank you. 49 I won't take much time, since we're all tired today, and at the end of the day is this work day, but I can't help but ask the promoter - what are the reasons for the emergency procedure? In fact, here I have tried to read in this reasoning of the law and to find at least some reason why this must be considered by article 127, and it does not have to or cannot be done by a shortened procedure or even a regular procedure. I must say that if I have already taken the floor so as not to debate later on the law that, let's say, the text: 'The basic reason for the law being introduced is the need to provide domestic sugar producers with approximately the same conditions as those with sugar producers in the CEF Agreement countries and in a way that increases the use and use of capacity and employment in BiH increases the competitiveness of domestic producers and reduces BiH's negative balance of payments with abroad.' This reminds me a lot of the laws on the protection of domestic production we had here. So this text is almost identical to the proposals of earlier laws that were found here in the procedure, which we, aboutly, were pretty smoothly refusing, most of us here. Here, we now have a real problem that those who at that time explained the need to solve the protection of domestic production in an integrated manner should probably now vote for non-integrated solutions to the protection of domestic production, and we who, as a result, advocated individual should now be against individual this solution to the sugar market. Of course, we were introduced into all of this by the sweet Council of Ministers who, of course, seemed to be doing well in sugar. What's the key problem here, by me? The key problem is that it's necessary for the promoter to at least make some arguments about what he suggested here. So, if it's true, and I don't doubt it, that no significant revenue from customs is diminished, but that's why it's greatly increasing exports and that the effects of these are significant, it would be good to know how much they're shrinking, even though it's not significant, and how much they're increasing, and I believe it's significant. I would be convinced that this makes sense, as I think it would make sense, and to say that the proposal is based on a number of initiatives of economic operators and associations; if at least one was written, it would be clearer to me why the law was then proposed. This is how the promoter managed to cover it up, with one general finding based on a number of initiatives. Furthermore, in this explanation, the Proposer says that Article 8. The proposal for a law amending the Customs Tariff Act stipulates that in order to comply with obligations made under the World Trade Organisation and other international agreements concluded by BiH in accordance with the law in the process of the completion of the international agreements, the Council of Ministers is authorised to carry out the harmonisation every year, etc. It would be good to know what our obligation to export sugar within the World Trade Organisation is. Because this is some argument that needs to be passed this law. So we should know what these obligations are and how much income we will achieve by these obligations. What should be analysed in particular is the implementation mechanisms and means of ensuring compliance with the rules. In fact, a few years ago, at this same home, we adopted quotas for, too, imports of certain products, then later when we analyzed the effects of imports, we found that to a significant extent the quotas were not respected, because then the implementing mechanisms and the way in which the rules were protected were not adequate and we had counterproductive effects. And here, I'm afraid the law had to predict a completely different way, if anything, under 50 of these other conditions: how can it be controlled to avoid abuse by applying these quotas? Namely, no control mechanisms have been defined here. Also, there's only no digits in this explanation. The only number we have is 50,000 and 0% and, of course, the number of official messengers where some regulations are published. It would be logical to make one of these proposals, and right now to say that we are standing in a position to protect domestic production, with a clear explanation, that we realize that we are really protecting domestic production, and we are not going to have some lobbys and not thinking about whether there's anything behind this here. That is why I propose that the Proposer withdraw the request for Article 127, turn it into 126, and, in the meantime, deliver an argument from which it could be clearly seen that this law will achieve certain effects and what effects will be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22896	I would like to thank Reverend Novaković. The next one was the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22897	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, let me immediately say that I support Professor Hadžiahmetović's initiative and Mr. Novaković's presentation. And I'm just asking one question. When we ask for something from the Council of Ministers, it's been months, four days before college, and it's been bypassed by a competent parliamentary committee that is obliged to at least give their opinion on this. I don't want to do insinuation unless I have proof and arguments, but I guess this next month and New Year's is a sweet month, so I'm not gonna say that someone wants to sweeten it, because that would be too harsh. But get her back from this 127th number down and be a normal procedure. If we're gonna fail because of this sugar, only if it's this country's problem, now I'm gonna come home and I'm gonna eat a kilo of sugar and solve all the problems. Well, really, why are we putting ourselves in this position? Here, I'm a member of this committee -- here's a colleague of mine, here's him in front of me -- what's around us? I don't have any sugar or nuts in my pocket, I don't have anything. [[Common discussion]] I don't have a president, so I'm fighting to be myself, yeah. So, really, to go back to normal procedure and not talk anymore. I support, I repeat, Professor Hadžiahmetović's proposal and Mr. Novaković's exposure and this tossing all these sugars into this crowd, but they don't know who to turn to. The others are arrangements. Thank you. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22899	One question is: Why has the parliamentary commission been bypassed? I remind you that the procedure under Article 127 does not involve the work of the parliamentary commission and does not involve the amendment phase. It only implies if the vote is accepted, take it or leave it. That's right, business. When we change the Rules of Procedure and it's different, then we'll probably work differently. Replica, distinguished representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22900	I just wanted to tell my esteemed colleague, Jovičić, that this discussion does not make him president of the commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22901	Replica, distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22902	Mr. Chairman, I just knew what you, like, wanted to explain to me. That's why I'm asking 127. I ask what that number is, because it was immediately known that a commission phase would be avoided. Now, I will be happy to hear from the Council of Ministers whether this sugar was really the most necessary thing for this country and to comfort my colleague Mirko Okolić – I will resign from the commission, not to be president. 'Cause I'm gonna be president if I'm gonna be around all the time. And this is the way.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22903	I'm glad you're not tired yet. The next is distinguished representative Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22904	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, I actually have a dilemma about whether to vote for this to go according to article 127, by emergency procedure, and immediately bring down this law, or be against procedure, so that it goes into regular procedure, and then it would come to Mr. Jovičić on the Commission, or to me, too. Actually, if you'll excuse me, I'll create a brief retrospective. This was at this home in the previous meeting of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, when Mr Špirić was a representative. He tried to amend and supplement the Customs Tariff Act on Sugar, however, from 10% to 5% at the time, so, of course, there was no transitoryness in this home, so it seemed to me that one of the representatives in this conference also took over, and then at the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission we tried to make a comprehensive solution, which Mr Novaković was talking about, so he didn't get the support at this home, so the competent Ministry for 52 foreign trade and economic relations... delivered to the parliamentary procedure for the comprehensive change and the addition of customs tariffs, which, as I recall, did not even complete the procedure in this home, because there could be two laws etc., but it was obvious that something was being achieved at the small door due to the personal interests of individuals. I think it is the wrong approach, regardless of what is so finely written in this explanation, and it is tempting for the MPs to support it – because it is necessary to support domestic production and sugar. I don't think it's right, especially that a few MPs didn't get this bill at all, but they sent faxes to their homes, and in the meantime, we came to Sarajevo, etc. I think it is unprincipled in this way to introduce any changes that depend on a positive or negative income in the Budget of BiH, i.e. on the Single Account. I therefore believe that a mistake has been made before, which is not supported by the Commission's proposal for foreign trade and customs, because it was still a comprehensive proposal, and, on the other hand, the competent ministry has provided us with an action plan with 60 and some measures to be implemented. Unfortunately, none of these measures seem to have been realised, and BiH's external trade deficit is unfortunately growing. It was precisely these measures that should have gone too fast to fix that external trade deficit, or at least that curve would have gone in a positive direction. Therefore, I believe that this should not be supported, regardless of the reasons for the urgency of this procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22905	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22906	Among the most interesting requirements, i.e. legal solutions, are, at least to me, the requirements, or proposals for a law on the release of customs duties in imports of certain goods. And usually it happens for processing. I find this argument very inconclusive, because I don't know, I haven't seen the argument. Why would we single out only this processing industry, a branch from some others? And I'm not convinced at all that it's in the interest of the primary agricultural producers who should be interested in the work of this factory. So, in a way that they're interested in seeding certain areas with sugar tail, and then having a safe placement, etc. And if this factory is going to base its production on import components in the future, I'm not sure we're doing well either, and especially not to the primary agricultural producers in the area where it's possible to grow raw materials for processing in this factory. It happens to us, not for the first time, that we have similar requirements for some other contingents or quotas for the release from imports. So, for example. for the meat processing industry and other industries. I am convinced that such a selective approach and uncritical consideration of these requirements and the approval of such solutions to achieve exactly the opposite effects of those real and desired effects, which is that we are developing primary agricultural production and that then processing capacities are mandatory to buy these products and then to achieve their own benefits through their processing, but first and foremost to those who should produce their products, therefore primary agricultural producers, which are raw materials to them for processing. And that's why I don't think this should go to 127 at all. At the very least, it should go to the competent commission to make 53 it either shortened or regular procedure, so that we really see the explanation and ask which reasons and arguments to adopt something like this hastily. And I think that whenever we talk about the release from import duties of any product, it really needs a good, well-explained explanation. Because it makes much more sense for me to think about getting rid of the import duties of some other products, for example. Energens used by all processors. So it's a non-selective approach, a general approach, not just to choose individuals and then simply release them from the import tariffs of their repromation. And I'll repeat, especially if these imports are related to the possibility of producing that raw material in our country, yes, especially that. And that's why I don't think there are, these arguments aren't good arguments and that this should be returned to a brief or regular procedure, so then, if there's a mood and if there's evidence and arguments that it's justified, we'll do what's required here in law, then we'll do it. And in particular, I haven't seen any of the arguments that this is necessary in a hurry. I don't know what's gonna happen in some, I don't know, about 10, 15 or a month.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22907	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22908	I have to admit that I didn't think at all to report to this agenda point until this whole series of discussions started, so I'd like to ask someone from the Council of Ministers to tell us who's proposing this at all. Here we have all and one representative from the ruling parties – true, Dokić is gone, and Dokić is there, I apologize, I have not seen him – therefore all and one representative of the ruling parties, including Slavuj, and everyone is against this. It's really not clear to me that we're being told who's really proposing this at all? If at all possible, to be told and how did this happen? Is it some kind of mistake maybe? Yeah, it's not, so I'm sorry. Maybe, Zorić, you didn't suggest this, did you?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22909	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22910	Yeah. He knows he's not Ljubić. Great!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22911	I don't have any more logs. Is there any of the Resorving Ministry? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the third item of the agenda: 54 Ad. 3. The appointment of the House of Representatives' Research Commission for the determination of reception and spending of the donations received by BiH in 1996. 2008 All we have is a proposal for a agenda point. We don't have a proposal from the members of this committee. In the consultations that have been carried out, the proposer of this point suggests that each club propose one candidate at a time in this commission. Here, we're going to give a word to the proposer of this agenda point. Dear Representative Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22913	I hope that now in this round of voting some who voted against this commission will now, that they have had enough time to think and that in the meantime we will vote for this commission, because it is in the interest of all of us sitting here to finally take down the mortgage from this Parliament and the Council of Ministers on whether or not there is no abuse when it comes to donations. One lady asked for a proposal, there are two options. So, that every club that gets one or, if you let me, I'll suggest, so finally there you are, so adopt whatever you want. I would suggest from the former commission for continuity and since people are already in progress, they already know a good part of the topic, that we do not have to learn everything from the beginning now, Dr Milorad Živković, Adem Huskić and Joza Križanović, as old members, and as new members I would suggest more Dr Halid Genjac, Mr Vinko Zorić, Hadža Jovan Mitrović, Milica Marković, Azra Hadžiahmetović and myself. That would be my proposal to this committee. __________? [[microphone is not enabled]] No, we took Jovan. Okay, that's my suggestion, now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22915	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22916	Mr. Chairman, thank you and Mr. Sefer Halilović for proposing me to this committee. However, I'd like to leave at least from what she did last year's Commission of Investigation. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, here, apart from counting people's names, saying tasks, saying deadlines, saying what can be done here, not falling into the same trap that we had and when I was on that commission, where it wasn't exactly defined, and our work on that commission was defused. 55 And I therefore propose the conclusion: To be in charge of the Extended College to propose names, tasks, deadlines at the next session, so that this parliament can vote on a decision to appoint an investigative commission, not just the appointment of members of the Investigation Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22917	Thank you. Dear Representative Adem Huskić, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22918	Thank you. Well, here we are, my colleague Živković and I were in that previous commission and from that position I was going to suggest something proposed by my colleague Živković. I'd kind of do it more radically. Before they name this committee, I think it would be very useful and correct, and that it wouldn't happen to this new commission like what happened to that, to get a report from that commission, all of us, before we get it, and then form this commission. Maybe we'll look at things differently then. I wouldn't want to diminish Mr. Halilović's idea, I supported her, but believe me, I wouldn't want to be on that committee anymore because I don't think there's anything I can do. I'm really convinced of that. Here, I thank you if you are and there's no reason to doubt that you honestly thought it would be useful for me to be here, but I suggest that there be someone else for me, because I know what we did, how we did, what ambitions we had, and at the end of what we came up with. And for that reason, here's why we wouldn't do the same thing again, I suggest that before the College does anything, we share the report that the commission did to that Parliament's assembly. If we had 10, 15 days or a month to study it, then let's see what we do. Here, if my colleague Halilović agrees. I don't think anything will get lost, form that commission a month before or after, we won't lose anything, but I think it would be useful to have a report on the work of that commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22919	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22920	Here, I fully support Mr. Huskić's thinking, and here he is taught some of his experiences in the work of similar committees, such as the Commission for determining the old foreign savings. So it was given the commission a mandate to define what obligations, deadlines, etc. And every time he does, he gets into trouble, so he always calls for his term. So what's his mandate, what's his assignment, what are his deadlines to do? I think this is even more complex matter, even more complicated matter and, I am convinced, even more difficult, or equally as much as 56 difficult, and I really think that it is necessary to define the mandate, deadlines and, of course, what has been done as it has been done so far, and that someone who has already worked a little bit and said their problems in the work etc., the achievements they have achieved in their work etc., and that only then can be named, or can be immediately, but yet to define what the task is, the goal, the deadline in which it is to do so. I think it's a good idea to go to an extended college, talk about it and then just go to this home. And I don't think we're gonna lose anything for some, I don't know, 10, 15 or 20 days, because this is a job that certainly can't be done in the next few months, not a few weeks.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22921	The next is the distinguished representative Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22922	Here, I wouldn't reciprocate my colleague Halilović's proposal. I absolutely support what my colleague Živković suggested. So what Huskić was talking about, and in a very short way, Jukić - is relativating everything. If there is a Report and established facts in the report that Huskić advocates, then there is no need for the commission. But if we bring something unfinished here to Parliament, then we'll discuss it for two or three days, and we won't have anything again. I agree that what my colleague Živković suggested to use is materials, so I respect the proposal that Huskic use this commission, but not Dom, not Dom before that. So, this commission to use all these materials, of course, is even desirable. And I remain in favour of supporting and asking my colleague Halilović to accept this proposal for the extended college to establish names and names, in fact, to establish a proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22923	Thank you. Next, the replica is whether, the esteemed representative, Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22924	I just want to tell my colleague Zorić. I don't know how he realized that I was the one who was relaving. I'm not in any way, nor was I going to relativize, but I said that I support it, but I think it would be very useful, before we form a commission, to get these materials.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22925	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šemsudin Mehmedović. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22926	Very short. In fact, originally, when the agenda was established, the SDA Club was against including this item of the agenda for reasons of unpreparedness. That is one reason, and another reason why Mr Halilović's initial proposal was not a member of this commission to anyone from the SDA. It seemed to us a little bit like, you know, like some new-old chase alliance, so it wouldn't turn out like the Bošnjak were dealing with themselves again, and we see that it had general support in this home, here's why we support Mr. Živković's discussion to determine what the purpose of all this is. Is the goal of determining the facts, is it the goal of having some unfinished or malicious report, any commission or commission, misused for political purposes or, God Bog, a pre-election campaign that will follow, or is the aim of treating the frustrations of any individual which is certainly unacceptable? For this reason, we certainly support that the truth is finally established, but don't let us get into a situation where mice ate our documentation or fell dust and were destroyed because of inadequate disposal space. If we're going to determine the truth, we want to determine it and put an end to it one time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22927	Thank you. There are no more applications to discuss this item on the agenda. He has a respected representative, Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22928	Very briefly to Mr Mehmedović, a short replica, that in the first version I did not propose the composition of this commission, but only proposed this commission. And I didn't propose to anyone, not one member. I was just suggesting that this committee be formed. In this second report, I suggested Dr. Halid Genjac because he voted in favour of this proposal. I fully agree with the proposal tabled by Mr. Milorad Živković... that the College determines what he was talking about and proposes to the commission, that the College propose a commission, but that the commission has a mandate, since this is an investigative commission, that it has a mandate to open all doors and get information, to answer two questions. The first question is: How many donations have come for the reconstruction and reconstruction of BiH? And the second question is, where and how was that money spent? So, and the commission's mandate, since it's an investigative commission, is to give her a free hand to finish this job as soon as possible, with full respect for everything this previous commission has done. We don't have to reveal hot water if this commission has already reached one level. So this commission should just have a mandate to extend and finish its work. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22929	Thank you. No more reports. I'm also closing the debate on this agenda point. Is there any need to wait for any of the MPs, are we all in the hall? Can we approach the vote immediately? There are no different suggestions. I'm so glad. Then please prepare to vote. We move to a statement on the first item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2009 (first reading). We are voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading, with the opinion of the Committee and this conclusion. Please prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22930	I think that since the separate vote was also on the Commission that it should be here. It was separate on both the Commission and I think... I'm asking you to vote that way. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22931	Honorable representative Lazar Prodanović reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22932	Chairman, I propose that votes on the Commission's report be voted on, on the Commission's report as we have voted so far, that we vote on the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22933	The Commission's opinion! Honorable representative Azra Hadžiahmetović reported the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22934	The President-in-Office, the Commission's opinion contains an opinion on the principles of the Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Institutions. This is the first part of the Commission's opinion. But this conclusion by the Commission overestimates the solutions to the next phase of the Budget. We therefore propose to vote separately. Thank you. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22935	Since we have shared reflections, I'm giving your proposal a statement, so I can say a proposal from the Club of the Party. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22936	Please nice, so business intervention. No matter what I might or may not be, but the Rules of Procedure are Rules of Procedure. I didn't happen to talk about this, because I knew we'd come to this stage and read Article 106(1) of the Rules of Procedure again, so this is business intervention. 'The debate in the House begins with the first reading concerning the principles on which the draft law is based and the necessity of law-making according to the opinions of the Constitutional Commission and the competent commission of the first phase of consideration.' When voting on principles and upholding principles, then a full report of the commission comes into it. We have received a report from the Commission and everything that is written in that report is an integral part of why we raise our hand or against. This is it. We've never done anything different. So that's one thing. And secondly, if there was a negative report from the committee, you wouldn't have had a chance, none of us, to vote on the principle. It should be open and honest to the end. Be careful, I mean, you should here and interpret the Rules of Procedure consistently and constantly in the same way, because tomorrow we're going to come into another position and I'm going to talk like this again. Therefore, the statement of principles today implies a statement of principles, with the Commission's Report. And no, Mr. Prodanović, the Commission's opinion is not adopted, but is voted on by the principles, on the law in the first reading, and that vote includes the Commission's opinion, because it is an integral part of the phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22937	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22938	Everything, everything. Keep an eye on the Commission's full report.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22939	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22940	Eh, so you'll be replicating me.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-1.u22941	I would like to thank the honourable representative Džaferović. We accept your business intervention and approach the vote on the bill in the first reading, with the opinion of the Committee. Please prepare. 60 Vote now. With 23 votes "yes", seven "against", four "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I find that the draft law on the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2009 was adopted in the first reading. We move to the second item of the agenda: the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. We're voting on a request for an emergency procedure. Please prepare. Vote now. Without the vote "yes", 33 votes "against" and one "abstained" vote, I find that no request for an emergency procedure under Article 127 has been accepted. According to the Rules of Procedure, we now approach the short-term vote, under Article 126. Rules of Procedure. Same law. Please prepare. Vote now. May I have your attention, please? With 23 votes "yes", 12 "against", without "abstained" votes, sufficient entity majority, I find that the Council of Ministers' request for consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act is accepted to be considered under Article 126. Rules of Procedure. We move to the third item of the agenda: The appointment of the House of Representatives' Research Commission for the determination of reception and spending of donations received by BiH between 1996 and 2008. You have heard the proposal, I think everyone has agreed on the proposal of the second Vice-President, Dr Milorad Živković: to task the Extended College to propose a decision for the next House session to define the competences, objectives, tasks, powers and everything else necessary with the membership of members of the Research Commission. So please prepare and vote on the proposal for the conclusion of the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković. With 35 votes "yes", with no votes "against" and no "abstained votes", enough entity majority, I find the proposal accepted. May I have your attention, we haven't finished yet, I haven't concluded the session, and please I'm putting up with it, so you're taking it a little bit. So before I close the session, I'd like to inform you that the next session will be scheduled for January 21st next year. Furthermore, before I conclude, I would like to congratulate all of you and all the citizens of BiH, on behalf of the House of Representatives, on the upcoming New Year's holidays, on wishing all of us much more constructive discussions and decisions, and on those of the others as far as possible. 61 And, I use the occasion, since we will not have meetings until then, that I also instruct the believers of Orthodox religion, in the name of all of us and in my own personal name, congratulations on the coming Orthodox Christmas, with the desire to spend it in peace and prosperity with their loved ones and to see each other, if Bog so, 21 here at the meeting. Thank you very much. I'm closing the 43rd session. The seat is closed at 1950 hours.
