ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-30-0.u2694	... International institutions and media, I warmly welcome you all and open the 20th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There are 13 delegates present at today's session, including three from the Bosniak people, five from Croatia and five from Serbia. Mrs. Sulejman Tihić and Mrs. Čolo justified their absence, since they were prevented from attending the session. The college suggested the agenda you got. In relation to this agenda, the College agreed to include the fifth item, which is the Report of the Joint Commission on the text on the Amendment Law Proposal and the Supplements to the Single Parent Number Act, since the Commission agreed and prepared the Report. It's a harmonised text of the agenda. I'm asking the delegates if they have a proposal and an addition to the agenda. If they do not, the agreed agenda of the College shall be considered accepted. I'm going to the first item of the agenda, which is "Ad." 1. Decision on the participation of Armed Forces units in the peace support operation "Iraq Freedom" in Iraq to confirm – submitr: BiH Presidency You've got... It's a report from the committee in charge. The House of Representatives confirmed this decision. I'm opening a debate. Who's interested in participating in the work? Delegate Šaraba. Well, I think he can sit down because this is what this is and there's no need for, it's easier sitting down to work.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-30-0.u2696	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 2 Dear fellow delegates, I presented my position on this report yesterday on the Defence and Security Commission. In the meantime, I suggested that the next conclusion be made at today's House session. Therefore, 'to postpone the statement of confirmation of the Presidency's decision on the participation of the Armed Forces unit in the peace support operation for the reasons set out, which is that until the next session, the Ministry of Defence should prepare one information, which is the information based on the Law on the referral of members of the Armed Forces, police officers in the support of peace operations, in accordance with Article 4, to carry out an assessment of security in the area before a unit is deployed.' Since this is a legal provision, I believe that this conclusion is fully justified and justified. That's how much I thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-30-0.u2697	Thank you very much. Here you go. Mr. Zno asked first, Mrs. Majkić, then Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-30-0.u2698	Thank you. I welcome you, the chairman, members of the College chairing, colleagues and fellow MPs, all present here. I am obliged only to report this home not in detail, mainly what has already been said about the Commission's decision on defence and security with two meetings of 24.7 and yesterday 29.7. The Commission supported the Presidency's decision and proposed that our home accept the Presidency's decision to make a positive determination towards it, regardless of the request of my esteemed colleague, Šaraba. I think that all procedures here are respected, that this is not a decision to make ad hoc, which is made at once or suddenly. The decision has been long prepared and a complete process has long been prepared for the departure of our unit to Victoria base in Iraq. And I, as chairman of the Defence and Security Commission, will propose once again to my colleagues that we accept this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-30-0.u2699	Are there any more interested? And I'm sorry, Mrs. Majkić, I already said that, so Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-30-0.u2700	Dear members of the College, respected colleagues and colleagues, therefore, I would like to say that the SNSD's position is that the decision on the participation of the Armed Forces units in peace support operations should be accepted. 3 On behalf of myself now, since I have the right as a woman in the Defence and Security Commission, and here in the House, I have the right to a different sensitivity. Given the dangers that may occur where our people are going, I'm going to say that the Serb people's club will, in most cases, support this decision but that I have to remain restrained in order to remain consistent with the potential danger that something happens to these people. So I will be "abstained", and the club will vote "yes". Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-30-0.u2701	Is there more? Mr. Rajić, then Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-30-0.u2702	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, I feel obliged to speak at least a few sentences on this subject. I know that it is a very difficult issue, one of the most difficult issues that can arise in front of any parliament in the world to decide on the involvement of its armed forces in the various peace processes that exist in the world, the same as those that are being conducted under the auspices of the UN or that are being conducted in coalition agreements, that is... NATO alliance forces. So, I understand the reasons that were instructed by colleagues who had spoken before. The decision is not easy, but we must be aware that we cannot choose between the European path and Euro-Atlantic integration and speculation with the difficulties our people will face, our sons who go there, who will go today or in some other missions. But I would like to remind you that in our hesitation we are obliged to have one moral consideration for the world that expects us to participate, because this is the country in which the world has shown itself well, it has been a pain in the ass, so if you will, he bled out when the issue of these bloody conflicts in BiH was to be resolved. Therefore, I am aware of the dangers, I am aware of the restrictions that exist in the decision-making process because it is not directly related to UN-sponsored missions but I am aware that BiH has a moral debt to world peace, no matter how it is dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-30-0.u2703	Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-30-0.u2704	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome you and the Vice President as well as all my distinguished fellow MPs and all the guests at this session. I want to join those who say that this act that we are supposed to bring here today is moral and show that BiH is a country that only 10-12 years ago or 13 enjoyed the convenience of the peace forces that brought peace to these areas. Because if they were not there, the question is how much the impact of war's mortality would have been times greater and who knows when war breaks would have occurred in BiH!? 4 I therefore express my satisfaction that the reform that has been achieved in the Armed Forces of BiH and thus shows how far it has gone and dared and dared to say that there is neither a transition process nor a reform so strong, strong and good, which could be characterized by such a high assessment. That is why, on my part, full support for the decision to participate our forces of symbolic name in Iraq, Victoria, along with other countries' forces, precisely those countries we expect to support on our path to NATO integration. We cannot expect to be an integral part of the world or belong to a community of NATO countries if we do not show our willingness in this way. I know what we might have talked about more. More than 2 million marks in six months will be allocated financial budgets for this unit of only 50 people. However, he looks forward to the fact that we have come to this stage that we as a country can also be recognizable on this basis. On my part, and I believe deeply in the political options in which I belong that we are interested in making a decision to support this decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-30-0.u2705	Thank you very much. Mr Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-30-0.u2706	If they refused me this, what kind of message would they send, say, to the leaders of NATO? Why do I say that? First, he's doing perceptions in Iraq. It's not Iraq what it was, how we have it in our heads. Here, I'll tell you one experience. When we were recently visiting parlament Baden-Wirtenberg-Wirtenberg, then I asked the MPs there, did we, we talked to them -- well, why are you, here is the Mercedes, why are you in Romania now forcing the casting of the blocks of those for Mercedes engines, when this here for years Famos worked very well and successfully? Perception that you're an unstable country. So BiH, and for the sake of that perception, we're avoiding it. So is that because Rumunija's in NATO? That's what I asked myself. Yes, it is. As long as NATO doesn't come here, there won't be any significant development and investment. That's a fact. The capital is a slave who's very timid, if there's not one cop like that, so to speak, who'll vouch for it. Of that investment, there's this in the change, here's how much we've all been struggling so far. That's why I'm about to vote for people to leave. And after all, Mrs. Majkić, they're professionals. They're not the recruited army, so someone's son is there. These people signed the contract and... they do the job. There. So, I'll vote yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-30-0.u2707	Thank you very much. Mr. Filipović. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-30-0.u2708	Very short. I'll say what I think with one sentence. I believe that accepting this decision in the BiH Parliament is the most moral act of this country as a debt for everything that BiH has given through all the troops, so those who have stayed in our country. And since we have a joint session after this session, and four more points, I would like to see this debate end in order to join the decision-making process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-07-30-0.u2709	Are there any more interested? I guess we heard more than that. I have a proposal for a conclusion. The usual conclusion goes after the decision, but this proposal would not make sense after the decision. Now let's make a deal, shall I draw a conclusion, since it is clear that he will not get or go business, first comes the Commission's proposal and decisions. So, the conclusion of the business, first comes to the commission's proposal and the decision as defined. I first, delegate Šaraba, must put it to the vote. So, please, let's approach the plea. Who is in favour of making this decision on the participation of BiH Armed Forces units in the peace support operation Iraq's Freedom in Iraq to confirm? I can tell that two, four, six, eight, 10 votes are "yes". Who Is “against ”? There's no one here. Is there anyone? There isn't. Who is “abstained ”? With 10 votes "for" and two "abstained", this one was adopted, pardon 11 "for". Then I didn't count it right. Yeah, well, you're right. I suggest we talk about Ad points. 2nd, Ad. 3rd and Ad. Four, we're having a joint discussion. If he has any interest in bringing up his reserve on these points, let's make a statement as a whole to give this consent to these agreements with one decision. Are there any interested in the debate? There isn't. Please make a statement. Who is it to say that the ratifications of the agreement under item 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda are agreed? I find that... we have brought 13 votes "for" unanimously. Moving to the fifth item of the agenda: 6 Ad. 5. Report by the Joint Commission on the text on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Number Act You've reached the Joint Commission's report. The Joint Commission adopted the basic text of this law without amendments that were controversial. In accordance with Article 118. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House must be voted on by the Joint Commission. By adopting the report, the law is practically passed. The House of Representatives adopted the Joint Commission Report. Are there any interested in the debate? There isn't. We're approaching the vote. Who's for the Joint Commission report? Thank you. I find that the Joint Commission report was unanimously adopted, which passed this law. I am concluding the 20th session of the House of Peoples and thank you for your efficiency. The seat is finished at 11.00.
