ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1750	I am opening the 15th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you all. I find that all 15 delegates of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina are present at today's session. I mean, before I suggest the agenda, I'd like to invite you all to honor the late former president of the House of Peoples of this assembly, Mr. Avdo Čampara, by teaching Fatiha, a minute of silence or another way. May it be eternal ricket and glory. For the 15th session, I suggest the next, changed
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1754	Am I satisfied with the answer? I'm trying to determine, in fact, what the writer was trying to say. Except that he supported my position that the establishment of a single record appointed, i.e. the appointed head of BiH's institutions should be supported, I do not have any other argument that speaks in favour of that being done. So, I will take this into account, but I will continue to insist... that this obligation is not only the obligation of those who run the institutions in BiH, since we know how much more technical mandates and more mandates that have expired and that no one cares about it, because it is evident that we will soon have half of the institutions in BiH that will work in the technical mandate. I look forward to the support of the Council of Ministers, which 3 says should support this initiative, but I don't see any moment in time that anything concrete has happened that this kind of thing will be done. So my pleasure here is conditional.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1755	Okay, well, we have a conditional satisfaction with the answer to the question. We hope that this will be conditionally implemented in some way, that it will no longer be necessary to be conditional. Any new delegate questions? Here's Slobodan Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1756	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, my delegate question is, at first I'm going to give a shorter introduction. The Republic of Croatia began from 1 November '93. A year from the Trebišnica hydropower plant system without anyone's consent and breaking an earlier agreement began to take over, and today it takes on, more electricity than it belongs to under an agreement concluded in 1965 between the then BiH-Croatian governments. The deal was signed by then by government presidents Rudi Kolak and Mika Špiljak. And the ratio in the distribution of electricity was then and until '93, so some for 30 years, 78:22 in favour of BiH. Hydropower plants in Trebišnica have... about this huge problem for the energy sector – the current debt, I say, is over 150 million marks towards the Elektroprivred RS and BiH -- has notified all relevant institutions in BiH and the international community. Given the international aspect of this problem, asking for this issue to finally be put on the agenda of the BiH-Croatia Interstate Council, my question is: What is going to take the Council of Ministers to resolve this large and complex issue and when it will launch activities in that direction, given the enormous adverse consequences that are increasing every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1757	Okay, thank you very much. Delegate Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1758	I'd like a question to the Council of Ministers. Since the government of the Federation of BiH has decided to establish transport priorities for the construction of highways on Corridor Vc, which are passing through the Federation of BiH, with its individual decisions and to define a general interest for each section, and it does so by defining only certain priority highways on Corridor Vc, I ask: 1. Why does such selective decisions by the Federation of BiH government seem to result in agreements with the Council of Ministers or any other relevant institution? 4 2. Will the Council of Ministers take any measures and when, in order to prevent deliberate delay and an obvious attempt to stop the implementation and construction... Corridor Vc by the Federation government on shares from the northern border through Posavina and the southern side through Hercegovina, as decided for other shares within the Federation of BiH. I am convinced that in this way, the government of the Federation of BiH is not only jeopardising the construction of those shares that are not covered by such selective decisions by the government of the Federation of BiH but is questioning the construction of an entire route on Corridor Vc according to the construction dynamics established by the feasibility study of the highway at Corridor Vc, which was developed by the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport. And I'd like an answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1759	Thank you very much, Deputy Chairman. Now... I give my word to delegate Zoran Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1760	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and others present, I have one question for the Council of Ministers. A year ago, considering the report on the work of the BiH Law Department for 2006, one of the conclusions and demands of the Constitutional Commission of the People's House on the protection of BiH's assets abroad was: to task the Council of Ministers to urgently form a commission that would carry out a list of assets abroad, and to make up the relevant register, inform all competent authorities and institutions of the situation which has arisen and problems in order to take appropriate measures on the preservation and protection of that property. It is evident that there is no feedback in the public: What is specifically done and whether a commission is formed at all and what are the results of its work if it is? Has BiH's defence registry of BiH's assets been delivered abroad for further treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1761	Okay, thank you very much. Then Adem Ibrahimpašić, a delegate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1762	Well, I didn't put it in writing, because I asked that question... two or three times ago. Again, is this such a difficult question: When will the amendment of the Customs Tariff Act finally come to this House? I remind you, it's been five months now since the laws and amendments went out to show from the IRS. We suffer terrible harm – I am talking about the economy – which this 5 law does not change. Is that so hard to say: He will go, he will not, there is none of it?- I'm sorry. I once again ask you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1763	Okay, thank you very much. Delegate Mrs Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1764	My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers. I remind you that at the 10th session of the House of Peoples, 4.12, I asked the following delegate question, which I have never received an answer before: Please advise the Minister to answer me what has been done so far with the finding of an adequate legal status solution of the Official Journal of BiH? Since it has been four months, I am forced to renew this issue. I'm also asking two new questions on this subject. ...the first drink is: 1. As long as it came with the creation of a law on the "Official List" that was to be done by the expert commission formed by the Ministry of Justice. And two: two. If the Council of Ministers made a decision in 2004 on the provisional takeover of the founding rights of the "Official List", why is no competition for the selection of members of the Management Board under the decision? I remind you, of the three outside members of the board of directors, one is a pensioner. He has been chairman of the Management Board since 2005, appointed by the Council of Ministers, and the remaining two are members of the Management Board in the "Official Messenger" for seven years. Of them, one is in a direct conflict of interest, as next to a member of the Management Board in the "Official List" also performs as secretary of the government of the Federation of BiH. The answer, I mean, in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1765	Thank you very much. Is there? Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1766	My question was addressed to the Council of Ministers since, during the debate on the draft law on changes to the VAT, the Council of Ministers made it clear that by February 15th, it would come up with its concept of solving the problems that were...conditioned, which were conditioned by a large price increase, and could be introduced two steps. These, even, six indications were made by the Director of the Tax Administration. February 15th passed a long time ago and my question to the Council of Ministers is: When is he going to carry out a commitment he just took? It means that it proposes a solution or a possible amendment to the VAT Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1767	Okay, thank you very much. Here's a oral question for me, since two of the co-chairs asked a question, so here's my word, let me put it that way. You probably all noticed at the entrance to BiH, at the border of BiH, that there is not what is common in other countries of "Welcome", I don't know you, in Croatia, in another country. We have "Welcome to Republika Srpska!" there is "Welcome to the Herzegovic-Neretva Canton!" and there is no "Welcome to BiH!" It doesn't matter, let the other markings stand as it enters... the territory of BiH. I'm asking the Council of Ministers, I don't know if it is, perhaps it's specifically the Ministry of Security or the DGS: Why don't these marks be put in place, because it's a practice in other countries? "Welcome to BiH!" all those entering BiH!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1768	What's that question?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1769	Why don't they put the tags on?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1770	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1771	Yes, it is. Any other questions? Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1772	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I warmly welcome you, you and co-chairs as distinguished colleagues and all guests present at this present session of our home. ... my question concerns the protection of national monuments in BiH. National monuments... are subject to the protection and rehabilitation measures set out in the Law implementing the decision of the Commission for the Protection of National Monuments. The Commission established pursuant to Annex VIII of the General Framework Agreement. In July 2003, this commission adopted a Decision declaring a national monument, i.e. a monument of importance for BiH and its past: the Archaeological Region of Mile where the Krunibena and the tomb church of Bosnian kings are located in the Municipality of Visoje. This decision ordered the Government of the Federation and the municipal structure of the Government in the High to move a local road on the track... going through the 7 middle of this site, to dislocate some nearby facilities, to ban further construction in a specific zone and ban the disposal of all types of waste. My question is addressed to both the Commission and the Federation Government and the Municipality of Viso: What has been done to protect such an important historical archaeological site for our past? I said, and I think we often hear such a sentence: "Whoever doesn't take care of his past is not a good future for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1773	Okay, thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? He's not answering. I figure we're done with this agenda point. Just to point out that due to the official trip session of the House of Peoples will have to leave... Branko Zrno and Alma Čolo. They've already done it,...as you can see. The second item of the agenda...is: Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 14th session of the House of Peoples Is anyone answering for a word? If he doesn't answer, can we adopt the record? Who Is For? Prepare to vote. You can vote. I find that "for" voted 13, "against" and "abstained" were not. The minutes of the 14th session of the House of Peoples were unanimously adopted. Moving to the third item of the agenda: Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1777	So, here's finally BiH will get the law soon. It is indicative, but the Act of Protection and to save people and material goods from natural and other accidents. What exactly is being governed by this law? Therefore, the system of protecting and saving people and material goods from natural and other accidents in entities and Brcko District is governed by entity laws and by the law applicable to the Brcko District. Accordingly, entities retain their responsibilities of the operational nature, and the state, i.e. state institutions, Council of Ministers, Ministry of Security and as a special body of the BiH Coordination Body for Protection and Rescue... are primarily coordinating the state, coordination role in terms of... primarily those parts that need to be coordinated between entities and competent institutions at the state level. We have seen the support of this law that all its actors who participated in the creation itself have given, and that is both NATO and UNDP, OHR, Delegation 9 of the European Commission, and so everyone has supported this law. But it is particularly important to point out that... this law does not injure or take over the constitutional powers of the entity and that the bill is in line with the entity representatives. Accordingly, the League of delegates of the Serb people will support the principles of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1778	Anyone else answer for a word? If he's not answering, let's approach the vote. Prepare to vote. Has everyone voted? Someone didn't vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1779	No, someone's not here. I don't think you, Mr. Jović, are.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1780	Okay, I realize that... and this law was passed unanimously, here's this check. We're going to the next item on the agenda. It's "Ad." 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers You have received a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act and the Commission's opinion. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law, submitted a conclusion that an open public debate would be held. The House of Representatives adopted the bill in the first reading, they also adopted a public debate. This is the first reading of the law, article 100. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1782	Here we have here today, as a point of the agenda, a really significant law with amendments and additions to this Code of Criminal Procedure. We all know that the Law on the Criminal Procedure of BiH has been applicable since 2003, that it has been imposed by a high representative and subsequently confirmed by the Parliamentary Assembly. Since it was a large-scale reform structure in the amendments to this legislation, many new solutions and legal institutions have been found, such as the development and approximation of international standards. In view of the introduction of new legal solutions, there has been a need to apply new provisions of the law in practice. For that reason...... The justice ministry has formed 10 teams to monitor and assess the application of criminal laws in BiH, which have done a huge job within which they have had the opportunity to declare many relevant factors in BiH. The comprehensive amendments and additions proposed aim to improve this legal text, to comply with the standards of European conventions, and to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and protocols. However, the complete impression of the amendments and additions to this law violates the BiH Constitutional Court's letter that we must also bear in mind. The Constitutional Court's letter expressed concern over individual solutions, which are covered by the proposed amendments and additions, which, according to them, will have consequences for the work and organisation of the Court itself, as well as an increase in costs to the budget of BiH. I believe that the opinion of the BiH Court cannot be ignored and that these proposals must be discussed, we must keep them in mind. Since the House of Representatives adopted the principles and the decision to conduct a public debate on this important law, I would also suggest that we adopt the principles, accept the decision to hold a public debate, and then implement those solutions that are imposed during the public debate through the amendment phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1783	Thank you very much. Anyone else answer for a word? If he doesn't answer, get ready to vote. You can vote. Here, and this law was adopted unanimously: with 13 votes "yes", without "against" and "abstained". We are now voting on the conclusion proposed by the Commission: to hold a public debate. Here, get ready to vote. You can vote. Okay, we can conclude that we have received 12 votes "yes", without "against" and "abstained". Moving to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Transport on the Roads of BiH (first reading) – Proposer: Representative House You have received the draft law as well as the Commission's opinion. The Commission did not accept the principles of the proposed law. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission was delivered, resulting in the proposal for a law in line with the BiH Constitution and the legal system. In accordance with Article 101. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the House declares itself on the committee's opinion, after it has received an explanation from the opinion-makers. 11 Note: If the House accepts the Commission's opinion, the proposed law is considered rejected, if the House does not accept the Commission's opinion, the House asks the Commission to draw up a new opinion based on the new guidelines set by the House and within the time limit set by the House under Article 100(3). I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1785	Since there is no chairman, Mrs. Čolo, and that I am a member of this committee, I really want to explain to you what it was that led the Commission or at least its majority to vote against this law. So the idea that the House of Representatives turned into a proposal, which was later made by amendments, comes down to the following. Thus, the law states: Training candidates from the field of traffic safety regulations can perform a licensed person with high professional traffic safety. The House of Representatives Commission has therefore submitted a proposal for amending and supplementing the law to involve people who have experience in the area in training candidates, but only have medium expertise. Then, by intervention of MPs at the House of Representatives, amendments have been made, so it is said, if you can't go to high school, you can only do it for four years, until they get better. Given the state of traffic, given that the general social interest in improving the state of traffic security, the Ministry of Transport and Communication has provided for the first thing to be done through a series of sublegal acts derived from the law to improve the work of the car school. It is clear to all that the safety of traffic participants and on the roads to BiH is unsatisfactory, that it is at a very low level. The loss of human lives, especially young drivers, aged 20-30, a large number of people with disabilities and enormous material damage, seem to approach this area with great attention and that it is being arranged as soon as possible, not that existing legal solutions, which have not yet been confirmed in practice, at speed and without arguments, are changing. The new Law on the Safety of Traffic on Roads in BiH has prescribed better quality training for drivers, by listening to mandatory theoretical instruction, which would allow future drivers to adequately prepare and be able to participate in traffic. The training of candidates is also required and responsible process to be introduced, in which quality newspapers should be introduced and work only for those who are sufficiently professional, educated and equipped. I will only point out that after the introduction of the new Traffic Safety Act on the roads, Croatia closed 74 auto schools. The safety of traffic also has a major impact on traffic safety by drivers who are only technically trained in driving through training in auto-schools and are not educated in terms of traffic culture, safety parameters, basic risks associated with traffic participation, etc. That's why I think by raising the level and quality of training, we get better drivers, more careful and more cultural participants in traffic, and thus more traffic security. Dear colleagues, indeed, I urge you to support the opinion of the competent commission and not accept the degradation of the Traffic Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1786	Mr. Ivanic answered the question. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1787	Dear colleagues, I have a slightly different opinion from my colleague Majkić, although it is the club president. I want to say this. I don't think it's a good idea for the law to fall to principles, not to talk. What's the point here? The bottom line is: there are a lot of people with higher professional traffic equipment. So they're not high school educated people, they're out of work overnight, and they haven't had any transitional period that's even been given to civil servants. And the good part of the people are out of a job. And that's why I thought I could fully understand these arguments that Special delegate Majkić was talking about, which can have their own validity and which are founded, but I think you should hear the other side of one large number of people who have had a higher level of expertise, who have been doing this job for years, much longer than some who have a tall one, and they haven't had a day of experience in that area, and I think maybe there's too much cut in the night without leaving a certain space for people. That's why I thought it was good to talk about it in normal procedure and see if the law could get or couldn't support it. The commission has opted against, I just want to say, let me say, my dissatisfaction with the law that we haven't had a chance to discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1788	Okay, thank you very much. Replica: Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1789	There are about 1,700 traffic engineers in BiH and the training process itself will absolutely not be compromised. Secondly, most of the people who are the founders of auto school are people with medium professional training. And, therefore, they were in a position to seek different lobbyings to degrade this law. The third reason is: the law is passed as for four years, so someone will remember it in four years – where we will be in four years, who will remember that this law was passed in four years – and then they should return it to be a graduated engineer again, and that road traffic. It was said in the proposal sent by the House of Representatives: it can be both lawyers and anyone who is... Well, please, here's all the paperwork here. And finally, thirdly, as the most complex, we received a very content letter from the Association of Transport and Communication Engineers of BiH. There are such reasoned reasons why this law should not be supported and it should not be demoted now in the beginning, when it has not yet been implemented. We know that car schools make scary lobbys and demand that that law be degraded. But if we're gonna do it at the beginning, what's it gonna be? ... We're going to put this law in this most diverse area, that's the point 8, the drivers, and we're going to expose it to the position that... on all sides we're going to bring requests for change, and we haven't been able to say it. I was his great opponent and many of his members within point 8. But now that we've adopted him, now that one sublegal act at a time has been adopted, we have to let the law live, to change him, to show how he can't work. They say some high school traffic from Doboy, the whole crew is getting ready to take over these jobs. It'll be sad if those running traffic engineers are involved in the training of young people. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1790	Okay. Mr. Ivanic again. The answer to the replica, what's that?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1791	First, there is no lawyer in the law, at least not what I have, here's a member: Training candidates in the field of traffic safety can perform a licensed person who has at least a higher professional traffic direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1792	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1793	But, please, the bill that we are talking about – and you obviously went deep into that debate who said what was there – what was my intervention: I saw no reason for the Commission to bring it down on the first reading. That's all. And I thought that the House should have discussed it, taken its stand, and in principle I think that the commission should, in the first reading, bring down laws that are really past the Constitution, and the content to be decided by MPs. That's my point, not so much of this law. But in general, one of the experiences that we had about the police law and about this law, I'm procedurally convinced that it's the right thing to hear the voice of all of us here. And thirdly, as far as I know, this school in Doboj has been named by structures, I don't know that anyone has launched its abolition, our structures in RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1794	Okay. Mr. Rudo Vidović answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1795	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, I am also a member of this committee responsible and the other day, when, I would say, we discussed this law more extensively, besides the members of the Committee were representatives of the Ministry, who, I would say, by my additional explanation to me – I am speaking specifically to myself – so they completed the consideration which ultimately resulted in the vote. In fact, what was run by both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples at the time when this law was passed were the associations of road engineers in one sentence: in fact, the largest number of accidents in BiH that were defeated were actually produced by young people who, besides bad roads, were not sufficiently educated in traffic security. And it's not without reason and in the environment so defined that the theoretical part of teaching is performed by people who are highly educated for it, not challenging the trainers of training practicalally and others. In that sense, it is expected that young people with completed colleges of other professions are also further, from the right profession, to say, educated for traffic safety, so that the devastating statistics of car accidents are less. So that's the reason. 14 The second reason is an attempt and a request – I have managed to reach the request of the Union of Cantonal Associations of Drivers and Instructors and some I have spoken to in person – is that this status should be maintained, and in fact, I am sure it will not produce a result. Niko one disputes that those people who have higher equipment in the meantime are not educated and in accordance with the law that they can hold, therefore, a theoretical part of the traffic safety class. So, in this way, the attempt of a transitional solution is not acceptable to me either, and in this sense, here I join myself again here in the House, so the Commission's thinking that at this point we can hear different thoughts, but really there's no point in theoretical teaching, so theoretical training on traffic safety is not being conducted by a person with a license, with a high professional background, and strictly from that traffic direction, so the road direction. In that sense, of course, I'm going to support it, is this thinking of the Committee and I think it must be the right decision at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1796	Okay. Adem Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1797	Well, I voted against this on the Commission. Not because... that calm souls and pure consciences could vote for this to be people with high gear, but since I'm sure it's not in that bush rabbit, when we talk about accidents, it's in the front row of bad roads. We have roads from Franc Jozef, when the carriages were going, so now they've changed the asphalt, they've given us a car 200 an hour, allowing us to import an old, very old car, and I think there's a rabbit in that bush, not this one. That's why I was against it, not because I would... at least. So it's a good formulation, no one forbids it to be a high professional cook. Anyway, whoever's taking care of it, get him to hire him. He doesn't have to do this. But not to drive people who already work there, let it be a process. He himself is a process. And now he's gonna be against it again for the same reason I don't think because of that bad training, because this isn't high-tech, so we need it now. If it were, I'd say let the doctors teach science in that area and I wouldn't be wrong. So I'm going to vote for this as it says here in this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1798	Okay. Anyone else answer for a word? Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1799	: Thank you very much. Very short. It really should be pointed out here that it's a highly qualified business. That's why it's called school. And, to do that, and the reason is to take this issue seriously. The reminders work, in our country, unlike many countries, that a man would drive a ship, he should have finished his shipbuilding school. Airplane: Air Force Academy or similar related school. Train: also railway. And only for driving a car: he was supposed to go to the police, or, before the militia. Now, the essential thing is changing. We've got people working in schools. For these reasons, I would support that it is a joint work where 40 students can be reached and that an engineer can exhibit quality of this theoretical problem. And I think that giving up on a proposal like this would get people who do the theoretical part, I'm sorry, the professional part of working with a car, just 15 to write that they did the theoretical part, if that's what the same person would do. So it's good to make a distinction, or since it's between what's practical and what's theoretical. We won't have a problem on the ground with a qualified workforce, or people who are traffic engineers because, I said, there will be safe places where four or five municipalities are approved to pass a driving exam and there is enough to hold that theoretical teaching one man. I think you'd be more inclined to support the commission as it decided.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1800	Anyone else answer for a word? Well, you see, I'd say a few words. Here, I'm sorry to stop this law from passing this law that's certainly useful. And I completely agree with what Mrs. Majkić says and here's Ivo Miro Jović and Rudo Vidović. But if we stop this now, we're gonna lose a lot of time to get that law back on the agenda. Why don't we adopt it in principle at this first stage, and then later we can change this through the amendments and put it up to be a high school cook. Okay. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1801	Mr. Tihić, this law is, there, the law has come into force. We've only got one member to change. And that's the essential question. Are we going to allow the law to degrade and accept the proposal of the House of Representatives and that means that people with higher equipment can be lecturers in training schools or are we going to let this law be the way it is, that means that only engineers can be lecturers? It's all a question of that. So are we going to degrade or not this law?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1802	All right, all right. Hilmo Neimarlija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1803	I welcome you all. I just need to remind myself that this problem that we have dealt with as the most important problem of the law, when the law is prepared and chaired by the Constitutional Commission of this House certainly remembers, colleague Filipović, that, therefore, in the adoption of this law, the most serious problem of expert preparation is under investigation. And the solution has been made, so here's the need to just... add this. As a cijeniti of fact, the argument made by his colleague Ivanić that, in principle, the commission should give us every law to read about him, except for those who are really controversial, constitutionally, to say. However, this is actually about an amendment to the law... which concerns a problem which, people, has been debated, debated in the adoption of the previous law,...so here, I'm afraid,...that we will a little bit of our own decision that we have made, that is, by making this assembly, by making the previous law, implement this amendment that came after what, I don't know, a year, is it, or two years. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1804	Božo Rajić, right? Okay, okay, I didn't know that was it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1805	...I need to say this, because one and the other can be argued. I only enter this one that this is not a matter that was out of the question when the law was passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1806	Okay. Delegate Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1807	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'm from all that, so I'm not a member of this committee, so I can't speak in such a proper way as someone who took part in the discussion at that stage, but my impression is now absolutely that here is not doing that the intention of these amendments and the addition of the law has no goal behind it to change the law in terms of strengthening traffic security but to solve social and personal issues. And in this sense, it would be good to try to find a solution that will allow the law to remain in the process and to warn the applicant, and in the second stage, eventually to return this law to its core goal. So, strengthening traffic security, not resolving social and personal issues, which obviously comes from these changes and supplements to recognize. So, I'm here to keep the law alive and to point to its illogicalness, the illogical origins from which it goes. And here I am, however my colleagues decide, here I am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1808	So if no one answers their word anymore, I'm putting the motion to a vote. Here, get ready to vote. Who is in favour of accepting the Commission's opinion, which suggests that the proposed law, in which case it is considered that the proposed law has been rejected. Who Is For? Prepare to vote. Vote. Let's do it again, maybe? [[Common discussion]] Let's do it again. Here, please... if there are any objections that someone hasn't voted... 17 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1810	The Commission’s opinion accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1811	The Commission’s opinion accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1812	Oh, man couldn't vote!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1813	The Commission's opinion is accepted, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1814	But it's not good to, it turns out that the good part of people doesn't vote. He's got to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1815	Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1816	We'll do it again, just how do I get it back?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1817	Prepare to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1818	Eh, now you can vote. Okay, here's nine, three, one. We find that the Commission's opinion has been adopted by a majority vote. "For" nine, three "against", one "abstained". There's an entity majority. We're moving to the seventh item of the agenda. The deputy chairman also has one obligation, Mr Filipović, and he will have to leave the House of Peoples session. We have guests from Germany, and he's in a delegation. 7th Point: Ad. Seven. Report by the Joint Commission on the adoption of the text on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH 18 You've reached the Joint Commission's report. The Joint Commission adopted two amendments that have become an integral part of the text of the law. In accordance with Article 118. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, we must vote on the Joint Commission Report of both homes. Who Is For? Prepare to vote. Now you can vote. Okay, we can conclude that the Joint Commission's report was adopted, with 11 votes "yes", no one is "against", no one is "abstained". Moving to the eighth point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Report on harmonising the text of the Conclusions on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission to determine the old foreign exchange savings of BiH citizens at the expense of domestic banks and branches in BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1821	Were you, Ibrahimpašić, “against”?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1822	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1823	Then somewhere in there, check with her.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1824	Okay, we're going to the ninth item of the agenda: 19 Ad. Nine. BiH presidency's decision to identify candidates for BiH Armed Forces' general position to confirm You have received the Joint Defence and Security Commission's report, which supported the decision of the following candidates: - Brigadier General Ante Jeleć on the duty of Commander-General of the Armed Forces of the Armed Forces; - Brigadier General Dragan Vuković on the command of the Commander of the Armed Forces of BiH; - Brigadir General Husein Jerkić on the post of Deputy Commander of the Armed Forces of BiH; - Brigadier General Mirsad Gutić at the post of Commander of the Fifth Infantry Brigade - Brigadier General Stamenko Novaković on the post of Commander of the Sixth Armed Forces of BiH Armed Forces. The House of Representatives confirmed the Bureau's decision. I'm opening a debate if there's any need. No Niko's answering for a word. We're voting on a decision. Prepare to vote. You can vote. I find this decision unanimously: 12 votes "yes", and "against" and "abstained" is no one. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: Ad. Ten. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2007
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1827	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to say a few words about this report that I first have to say is made very correct and quality and contains all the necessary indicators that point to one quality work of this commission. 20 Nevertheless, I would like to highlight three suggestions and three questions that I have been able to see reading this report. On page 8 of this report, which discusses the monitoring of the activities of licensed entities, found that there is a division of members of the Board of BiH on the development of the transmission network, as observed by the expert group of this body. Since entity governments are owners, i.e. members of the Elektroprenos Assembly, it is necessary that they overcome the existing problem in the coming period. Otherwise, we can expect problems on the transmission network, given its age. So, if entity governments fail to reach agreement – I personally expect those in the coming period to reach agreement – if the division of the Administration continues in the coming period, it is necessary that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or the competent parliamentary bodies, intervene in order to overcome this problem which can now be seen. That is why I believe that Derk is obliged to inform this parliament unless there is a need for overcoming these problems in the next period. On page 17, it is defined that at the level of the region a Regional Energy Community Committee is established in Athens and which has its own expert bodies and I would like to say exactly that these expert bodies of the Regional Committee of the Energy Community should also accept members from entity regulatory committees. Why from the entity... regulatory committees? Because entity laws give jurisdiction to individual entity commissions for certain areas, primarily in the area of gas and consumer protection. So, in these two groups, in the Gas Task Force and the Consumer Protection Task Force, it is necessary that representatives of entity regulatory committees enter. And a third question. In view of the fact that the activities of the DARK in 2008, it was found to be also a social aspect, which is to take action to subsidise socially endangered categories of the population, since electricity prices will grow in the coming period, and at least such expectations, it is necessary that the DARK, as a state institution, initiates and coordinates activities as it stands in its activity towards the relevant ministries in the direction of protecting the most vulnerable categories of the population. That is why the Derk will need to initiate activities aimed at subsidising and protecting BiH's most vulnerable categories, as it has done so far. Since BiH has surpluses of electricity, I believe this activity taken by this body is realistic and necessary. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1828	Thank you very much. Anyone else answer for a word? Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1829	So, I belong to a group that voted on the Commission for a good report submitted by the State Regulatory Commission, which is systematic, substantive, well-conceived. And, therefore, there was no moment in question that it would not be accepted. The work of the Regulatory Agency is best discussed by the audit reports that positively assessed its work, and the Commission for Finance and Budget of the People's House publicly praised this commission as one of five institutions in BiH that implements new orientations, concepts and philosophy in public administration based on the image of transparent 21 state affairs and clean state accounts. And it's something that happens to us so often that we can talk about the work of an institution. This institution, therefore the State Regulatory Commission for Electrical Energy, was established by the Parliamentary Assembly by adopting laws on the transposition of regulators and operators and electricity systems into BiH, as well as the appointment of members of the Commission. Now what is the state of affairs regarding the members of the Commission? We have a member of the Federation Commission who is current chairman and whose term of office expires on 30 June this year, we have Mr Nikola Pejić with a term of office of five... whose term of office expires on 20.12. and Mr Vladimir Dokić with a term of four years, so to whom the term of office ended on 30 June 2007. And now we see what capacity the Commission is working on. I would therefore suggest that, in addition to the adoption of this report, we adopt one conclusion in the sense that the House of Nations asks the Council of Ministers to speed up the procedure for the appointment of members of the Commission to which the mandate has expired, so that the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity can work at full capacity.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1830	Okay, thank you very much. Anyone else answer for a word? ......... Ivo Miro Jović, come in. There you go. No problem. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1831	: And I would just affirm this report a few words: that a methodologically professionally done, that it is transparent, that we, who are not referred to this problem, this is for the first time that in one area we have received a comprehensive review and I commend the report applicant.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1832	Is there any need for the chairman of the Commission to explain something here? There isn't. Okay. Thank you. Then we'll go to the vote. Prepare to vote. You can vote first on the report, then the conclusion. Here we can conclude that the report was adopted unanimously: 11 votes "for", there is no "against" and "abstained" We are now voting on the conclusion proposed by Mrs Majkić, where the Council of Ministers is asked to speed up the procedure for the appointment of one member of this commission to which the mandate has expired. Prepare to vote. You can vote. We can again conclude that this conclusion has been unanimously adopted. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda: 22 Ad. 11. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the governments of the other SEECP participating countries, the United Nations Mission of the United Nations in Kosovo on behalf of Kosovo, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 on the arrangements of the host country for the Regional Co-operation Council Secretariat You've reached the committee's report. The House of Representatives gave consent to ratification. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? He's not answering. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Who Is For? I mean, you can vote, please. I also find that this agreement has been adopted unanimously: 12 votes "for", "against" and "abstained". Moving to the 12th point of the agenda: Ad. 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the establishment of a Financial Cooperation Framework Programme
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1837	... that... The Serbian people's delegates' club suggests that Drago Ljubičić be appointed to this commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1838	Nice to Ljubičić you. All right, get ready for... I'm opening a debate. There's no need, is there? Prepare to vote. Vote. I find Drago Ljubičić has been elected a member of this commission with 12 votes "yes", without "against", without "abstained". Congratulations. Thank you very much. This is how we ended the 15th session of the House of Peoples. This one, if tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or the next, makes a decision in the field of the set of some of these security laws, will hold a session next Monday. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1839	Is that supposed to be Friday or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1840	Friday, no, it's impossible.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1841	Monday?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1842	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-07-0.u1843	On Monday, that one over there. The session is closed at 13.05 p.m.
