ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21118	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 37th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Our regular guests, presidents and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs, media representatives, were invited to attend the meeting. I welcome all present representatives and all guests. I also welcome representatives of public information funds. According to the service's information, I'd like to conclude that there are 35 representatives present at the session. There is justifiably no honourable representative of Hadži Jovan Mitrović. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Here I have been informed that the distinguished representative Snježana Rajilić is also rightly absent because she is in the hospital. You ladies and gentlemen have, as is known, received a call for the 37th session with several agenda points. In the meantime, however, the BiH presidency, with an accompanying letter from 14.10.2008, has submitted to Parliament a Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Interim Agreement on Trade and Trade Affairs between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Immediately after the adoption of these agreements, and in accordance with our definition, we consulted in the College and called for this session in a hasty procedure so that, due to the importance of these agreements for BiH, we would be quick to consider and agree on their ratification. In the invitation to this session, we stressed that the earlier called 37th session is renamed to the 38th session, which remains the draft agenda. In the meantime, we found that the Interim Trade Agreement did not need to be considered in order to give consent to ratification, so we asked the Bureau to make a statement. Following this initiative, the Bureau submitted a new letter on 17 October replacing the letter previously submitted and requesting only consideration of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and BiH. 2 In line with this session, we have one item on the agenda, that is: Giving consent to ratifying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Does anyone want to discuss the agenda proposal? Dear Representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21119	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, esteemed ministers and deputies, I launched an initiative in the last session to make Parliament stand by the speeches of BiH's chairman, Mr. Haris Silajdžić. I expected that for today's session, this item of the agenda could be prepared and his speeches delivered to the MPs. I wonder if this has been considered and at what stage is it considered? And I would like those speeches, which we will receive when we address the UN General Assembly and the Council of Europe, to be delivered to Mr Silajdžić here in Sarajevo on the visit of Mr Ren. I would also like to remind you of the fact that during the debate at the National Assembly on the same subject on several occasions by the MPs of the National Assembly, the Party for BiH and the SDA, it is pointed out that the BiH Parliament is the place to discuss the subject. So here's this initiative, directly in second place, has received support so that it could have the support of the majority in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21120	Dear fellow MP, I would like to inform you that the House College has defined itself, given the importance of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement for BiH and all its peoples and citizens and entities and cantons and municipalities and cities and everything else that exists in BiH to dedicate a session only to the Agreement, means only to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. And that question, which you probably want, you can ask at the next session we expect today after the end of the 37th session, I count no more than an hour. So, after the 37th session, for which you have a proposal of just one item on the agenda, we will have a regular session that would be earlier in the 37th session, it will now be the 38th session, where there are several agenda points, and we will open a debate on both this and some other issues for which MPs have needs. Are you satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21121	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21122	Thank you. Is there any other need to discuss the agenda proposal? There's no record. 3 I conclude that the Parliamentary House of the Paraliamentary Assembly of BiH established the following for the 37th session of the House 1. By giving consent to ratifying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are moving to consider the agenda. As we wrote in the invitation, because of the material's abundance, only the representatives' clubs were delivered the Agreement in writing, and it was delivered to all representatives on e-mail address, in electronic form. The competent Foreign Affairs Committee at yesterday's session discussed the agreement and delivered a Opinion proposing that the House give its approval for ratification. I remind you, too, that in Parliament we had one successful presentation of this agreement and had a full debate. In view of this, at yesterday's session of the Extended College of the House, a common position was found to be held at today's session on... In the opening part of the short address, the Agreement shall address the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, and after that, if necessary, the name of the club representatives may be addressed by one representative of the club, or, in the name of the representatives who do not have clubs, each of them may be addressed individually, if they so wish. So it's not a commitment. At the same time, we concluded that this session could take, that it would be desirable, for an hour longer, so that we would then approach the processing and start the work of the 38th session of the House of Representatives. Here, after these opening remarks, I call on the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Dr Nikola Špirić to address the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21124	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to warmly welcome you at first and express my wish that today's session will be another opportunity for all of you, regardless of which political option you belong, to clearly confirm your commitment to speeding up the European path of BiH. I would take advantage of the opportunity to ask you to manage our final goal during today's debate exclusively, which is full membership in the EU, and not to waste precious time and energy on unnecessary debates. As is known, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU, signed on 16 June 2008, cannot enter into force until the ratification procedure is completed by the EU member states, and the main assumption of ratification of the Agreement by EU member states is ratification of the agreement by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. At its 61st session, held on 7 October 2008, the Council of Ministers set out a proposal for a decision to ratify the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and to invite you today to agree to this decision. I appeal to you to make the ratification work as effective as possible, so that we can provide a firm 4 argument that we ask EU member states as soon as possible to ratify this agreement in their parliaments. Today's constructive debate would also serve as a firm argument in our hands to hit the EU door more strongly. In the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Council of Ministers took a number of measures and activities aimed at further approaching the EU. At the 2nd Thematic session of the Council of Ministers on European Integration, held on 3 July 2008, we adopted a Decision establishing European Integration Units. This decision determines the establishment of organisational units and jobs in the BiH administration's bodies to carry out operations and co-ordination in the European integration process. The Council of Ministers at the 3rd Thematic Session, held on 25.9.2008, adopted the Information on the need for joint bodies to implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Thematic Session, held on 6 October 2008, the Decision establishing the Commission for European Integration as part of the Interim Stabilisation and Association Committee. The first meeting of the Interim Committee was held in Sarajevo on 7 October 2008. We have put a special emphasis on taking measures to ensure that the Interim Agreement, which entered into force on 1 July 2008, is implemented at a satisfactory pace. Thus, the Council of Ministers adopted an Action Plan for the implementation of obligations under the Interim Agreement and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement at the 57th session, held on 29 July 2008. The action plan and its implementation will be one of the elements of monitoring BiH's progress and evaluation in the stabilisation and accession process. The first measures concerning the implementation of the Interim Agreement concerned the suspension and reduction of customs duties for certain product types under the schedule set out in the Agreement of the Interim Taxation Administration of BiH. At the first meeting of the Interim Committee, it was found that BiH fully respects liberalisation, i.e. the reduction of customs rates, as negotiated in annexes and protocols of the Agreement. Of the other measures needed to be taken, BiH abolished a 1% customs registration measure and began with reduced customs duties on imported goods originating in EU member states. BiH is obliged to take appropriate measures to amend the provisions of the Regulation on imports of second-hand vehicles, used vehicles that do not comply with the provisions of the Agreement. The foreign trade and economic relations ministry will soon submit a proposal for a decision to the Council of Ministers and inform the European Commission of the decision. Dear MPs, I will also take this opportunity to remind you that BiH's European path must be the property of all of us and that we must all give our support on that path. Giving consent to the Decision on the ratification of the Stabilisation Agreement will certainly constitute a concrete contribution to our common objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21125	I thank the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Dr Nikola Špirić. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative Halid Genjac. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21126	Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, members of the Council of Ministers, we are today attending an act that is one of the steps towards a definitive ratification to bring into force the Stabilisation and Association Agreement on BiH to the European Union. But it's not just a formal act. It also has a fundamental importance because today's consensus is to express consent by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and a definitive decision by the highest legislative and late legislative body in BiH to move BiH firmly into the EU accession process. The Party of Democratic Action strongly supports today's decision by the Parliamentary Assembly to give consent to the paraphrasing of the Agreement. And of course, this little and solemn act is not and should not be a reason to problem a number of our issues, analyse individual responsibilities, but because of the delay and the apparent stagnation in the accession process, which has already arisen, the need to look at some of the devices in general is imposed. When we brought to Parliament this declaration of the will of all parliamentary parties to accept BiH, integrate into the EU, or we misunderstood the process or we were not honest. All this that is being signed on European integration and everything that is being considered here in the final, and in partnership for BiH and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, aims to make BiH's evolution a state functional and ready to join the EU. No country that has crossed this path has decided on its own what evolution is and how this is achieved is ready to join the EU. In far less complex countries, the EU has been very consistent, prescribing criteria and clearly establishing the principles of what it means to be ready for integration into the EU of some countries. In BiH, which is extremely complex, unfortunately, we have more and more expressions of non-consistent approach and principle lately – agree. I am speaking on behalf of the Party of Democratic Action which, at least she, therefore, at least as a Party of Democratic Action, expressed both the responsibility and willingness of agreement and the will to reach a compromise, etc., but we do not have the answers which are the frameworks of a possible agreement that would be compatible with the EU and we have no answer to the question - what if some of the participants of the talks or any of the participants of the talks simply do not want an agreement. I think that we have had these situations, and I think that in addition to these problems and greater readiness to agree and more preparedness for compromises, I think that it is also time for a more consistent EU approach to our opportunities, and I think it is time for a new EU strategy towards BiH that should answer these key issues in the interests of BiH and its citizens, but also in the interest of the EU. I think that our expectations are justified, and because of the link between European integration and integration into the NATO Pact and all that, and also because of the link and with regional and general security, I think we are justified in the expectations that we expect a synchronised US approach in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21127	I thank the esteemed representative Halid Genjac. I don't have any more registered applicants. Is there? No, there isn't. 6 But maybe like this, I don't see it in front of me. Here, as I have registered, the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, and the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović, then the esteemed representative Martin Raguž, then the esteemed representative Rifat Dolić, and the esteemed representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21128	Thank you, Chairman. With regard to the fact that we ourselves have had a broad debate on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, I will not focus this time on the very content of the Agreement, and I appreciate that this act of ratification today is truly of special importance for BiH. In this regard, I would also suggest that the Council of Ministers and the competent authorities of this Parliament focus more on the obligations of BiH arising from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement itself, to make one selection of priorities both from the Stabilisation Agreement itself and BiH's obligations under the Partnership Agreement with the EU. I just want to mention this time that given that further steps in the process of bringing BiH closer to European integration and the ratification process itself, I would suggest that we all use diplomatic channels in our own way, within the framework of our opportunities. Yesterday we learned that the College of Parliament will send letters to the parliaments of EU member states in terms of application or request to speed up the ratification process. I appreciate that the competent authorities in this Parliament, in particular the Commission for Foreign Affairs, which also reached that conclusion yesterday, but also parliamentary friendship groups should be activated in this regard. Of course, the Council of Ministers, or Resort Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will do the job with diplomatic channels, as it has already done. But what I would especially like to draw attention to is that it would be good to pay attention to the Action Plan, namely priorities and dynamics in our approximation of EU membership in the next period in coordination with the Council of Ministers. This, in part for the reasons a fellow Genjac spoke of, and in part for the new circumstances that we need to take care of. In fact, the price of approaching European integrations with new circumstances in the world economy is increasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21129	I thank the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21130	Dear chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, media representatives, the name of the SDP Club at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, I would like to say that, when it comes to the SDP's Club of Representatives, we have no doubts. As you know, together with the BPS Club, we have proposed the 'Resolution on the Acceleration of the European Road to BiH', we have also supported the signing of this agreement at a special session dedicated to the accelerated path of BiH and the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. On behalf of the SDP Club, we have proposed a series of conclusions related to this issue. And today we will certainly vote for ratification of this agreement. 7 However, I want to say this. Here, in this brief presentation of the BiH Council of Ministers, among other things, it is said that time should not be spent for unnecessary debates. I agree with that assessment, however, here, so in the highest legislative body in BiH, I ask the question: Does it not, or does the Council of Ministers of BiH waste the time of BiH and do not do its part of the job needlessly? When I say that, I mean first and foremost the next. Here we ask a concrete question to the BiH Council of Ministers: How many European laws offered to the BiH Parliament in 2008? So that you may hear whether or not we are wasting time! Here's a question for 2008, even though we know the answer to 2008. And for 2007, we also know what the answer is and the results are clearly below satisfactory. So, there's a record of that, and today it has to be realized, a big discrepancy between what is signed by the BiH state and the representatives of its organs and what is realised after the signing? So we should finally start to distinguish between the declarative and the concrete. Today's agenda and these and next sessions confirm only the actual readiness and honesty of the part, the largest part of the ruling coalition in BiH, that they are seriously working to join the EU. Since the day of the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, in June of this year, so to this day, we have had smaller agendas, rather than the other way around, that this House of Representatives and the House of Peoples be flooded by dozens of laws, because we must pass thousands of laws to bring BiH legislation into line with EU legislation. Here on stage is a completely reverse process. There are less and less agendas, and there are no laws, on the agenda of a few amendments and additions to the law, which is absolutely unacceptable and contrary to what is declared in this country. I must say that after the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in June of this year, to date, BiH has become an almost completely blocked state, and that is, above all, the responsibility of the ruling coalition, its most important actors, but partly the international community that has both the right and the obligation and the responsibility to unblock the BiH state when it is necessary, and apparently that today, I repeat, BiH is a blocked state. We should have heard today, once we have ratified this Stabilisation and Association Agreement, what about constitutional reforms. Why isn't police reform being carried out? Why doesn't the implementation of the Law on the Public TV System at the state level be completed? When, finally, we want to join the EU, we want to accept European standards, when are we finally going to stop discriminatory actions in the education system? This is what a number of Council of Europe documents warn us about. However, nothing is reportedly done on this plan. As we all see, here's all the data, BiH is at the very bottom when it comes to fighting corruption. The parliament adopted a strategy, this initiative on SDP's proposal to adopt a anti-corruption strategy in BiH. Unfortunately, the Council of Ministers does not even do what the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives concludes. How, just then, to do some things we don't even figure out, which should be done. Here's the question of an action plan for the implementation of this agreement, and today we have ratification. In the resolution itself, which was also adopted by this House of Representatives, a commitment was made before the signing of the agreement, that the Council of Ministers should draw up an action plan for the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, with precise deadlines, business operators, etc. To this day, we did not receive such a document at a session of the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples. It's just saying how unseriously access is to a very serious job. It is saddened that 8 of us were the slowest country in Southeast Europe when it came to the very signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but it is becoming even more saddened that we will be the slowest country to realise the obligations arising from this document that we now ratify in the House of Representatives. I must say that most of the ruling coalition at the state level and entity level, that should be said openly today, is run by anti-European forces. When I say anti-European forces, by that term I mean all those forces that declare themselves European standards, and essentially everything they do is that this country is standing, being blocked and not moving towards the EU. These anti-European forces obviously in BiH think that the entire EU should adapt to BiH standards rather than realise that only one way can be done in the EU, adapting the country's standards and legislation to EU standards and legislation. If that were the case, the High Representative in BiH, who almost monthly warns of the country's great harmfulness of nationalist and anti-state rhetoric. This is what many other international institutions, representatives of the world's largest forces, warn us. They also speak of this in their latest statement, not full months ago, the ambassadors of the Peace Implementation Council's Steering Board, which also sees the current situation in BiH as extremely serious. However, in order not to extend the debate, I would like to say once again, the SDP Club will support the ratification of this agreement. However, today we wanted to hear from the Council of Ministers of BiH: Who will implement the agreement, within what time will certain things be realised, and who will finally be responsible in this country for unrealising those obligations that BiH has accepted on its way to full membership in the EU? So today we really expected someone to finally answer this question: who will be responsible for BiH's delay again? And, I repeat, we were late for signing, and today we are already seriously starting to be late for the realisation of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21131	I thank the esteemed representative, Denis Bećirović. The following is the registered honourable representative Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21132	Thank you very much. So strong support for ratification. However, this is a great day for this Parliament and for this country and we need to mark it with dignity and today is not the time to develop great differences between the position and the opposition, rather than to see how we use it next year to implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I answered, with this vote of support, to say two things. Things aren't as black as they want to be assumed from the signing of the Agreement to this day. We see that the Council also made a presentation before this Parliament, before both homes adopted the Action Plan and left certain frameworks and ways, as well as organisational assumptions that are also necessary to do this. Of course, political will is necessary, there was no talking about it, and that's why I called. 9 If Mr Olli Rehn, EU Enlargement Commissioner, says BiH is his nightmare in a positive sense, it shows the EU's relationship and the importance it attaches to the positive development of the situation in BiH. If we see an announcement that next year in the EU will be the years of the Western Balkans, if we see that the political directors of the Visegrad Group countries visit BiH these days, as well as the Czech Presidency announced those priorities, I think that today in this House we need to declare the year of European integration for BiH institutions. It's one minimum and focus on these tasks. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21133	I thank the esteemed representative Martin Raguž. The next is the renowned representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21134	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the EU and BiH countries, no doubt, for BiH is a historic act and we should now formally verify the act. I read the text of the Agreement in peace, and, I must admit, after that, for me today his ratification in this house, instead of a solemn act, got a note of concern, and a bit of fear of what lies ahead after his official entry into force. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement is an act that the BiH state enters into a contractual relationship with the EU, which assumes certain rights and obligations. I'm afraid that when we talk about the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we tend to talk about the rights and advantages it brings, and we often forget or keep quiet about the obligations and the negative consequences it carries with it. The European road to BiH certainly has no alternative and facing obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is only the first pile of thorns waiting for us on the road. I personally do not worry about dealing with obligations under the Agreement, because these obligations are reality and reality. But I'm worried, and it scares a few facts. The first fact is that BiH has been unprepared and unprepared for taking on the commitments set out in the Agreement. Secondly, the political environment in BiH, which characterizes mistrust and political division, does not provide much optimism in fulfilling the obligations under the Agreement. Third, relations within the current parliamentary majority in BiH, where there is no consensus on any important issue for BiH, are not a good reference for reforms and the forest of regulations and laws that should be passed quickly. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement brings numerous advantages and benefits, but only under the condition of rapid implementation of the commitments undertaken and the rapid movement of the European route. The first association of most of us when we speak and pronounce the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is pre-accession funds and EU assistance. The first experience of countries that have passed this time says that 10 pre-accession funds and EU assistance do not reach lost funds based on the reduction and elimination of customs duties and other charges. Secondly, pre-accession funds and EU assistance have also been conditioned in our example with progress in meeting the concrete priorities of European progress, as well as the obligation to implement democratic, economic and institutional reforms. Let's not fool ourselves that the EU will be generous to BiH and open the aid registers. It is a great delusion that can cost us dearly unless we quickly reach a political consensus on meeting the commitments made under the Agreement. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement is, above all, a trade agreement that does not bring profits to BiH, because BiH is not prepared for the agreement. But this agreement for BiH can bring political profit, as the European path to BiH becomes a strong internal integration factor in BiH. Who assumes in essence the obligations of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement? The official obligation takes over the BiH state and the responsibility for its execution is assumed by all political factors in BiH. Of course, within the political factors in BiH, at this time, the burden of responsibility is on the ruling six who makes up the parliamentary majority in BiH, because the political mechanisms, therefore, are institutional mechanisms for carrying out their commitments, objectively in their hands. Of course, to carry out the commitments undertaken, at this point, a general political consensus is necessary and is needed in order to make the commitments work faster and to make BiH move faster on the European path. A growing demand for departure or reduction of the international community's influence in BiH can be heard recently. Personally, as an MP in this country's Parliamentary Assembly, I am not too happy about the international community's role in BiH, but at this point I believe that, in the current political environment of mistrust and division, it is necessary and that the role of the international community should be rationalised in the direction of eliminating the destruction and obstruction of the European road to BiH, regardless of where it came from. Finally, to say that for the Democratic People's Community of BiH, and for me personally, the European path for BiH has no alternative and our support for this path will never come into question. Of course, this does not mean that we will be anyone's air-conditioned, even if it is both a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and a European pathway. I appeal to this situation and to a rational approach to the implementation of the obligations under the Agreement, because it has a radical impact on the BiH economy, and in particular on some of its segments such as agriculture, industrial production, etc. It would be tragic if our approach produced that folk-surgery succeeded, the patient died. That is why it is necessary for us all to live within the limits of our influence and to contribute to BiH successfully overcoming the path of the European path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21135	I thank the esteemed representative, Rifat Dolić. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21136	Gentlemen, the chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, fellow Members, distinguished guests, I would like to say with joy that the SNSD MPs today will give consent to the ratification of this agreement and once again I would like to express my gratitude to the 11th Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Nikola Špirić, and his associates to this great success. Now from this time distance, from a time distance, we can freely say that it is not the same in other Western Balkan countries to come to this agreement and come to BiH. However, it took a special political skill that they obviously had, and today we are, here, in front of this act that we have agreed to have a little solemn character. The SNSD wants to encourage this Council of Ministers to continue this trip and to raise a stronger voice in the coming period against all those phenomena and processes that are anti-European and that prevent BiH on the road. Joining, entering European integration is not an annexion, it is not an occupation, it is an act of democracy and should be and democratic means will surely be used. That is why we call on all those who are calling on others to lead us into the EU and to bring us into the EU to stop these calls but to strengthen our own participation in the EU's own leadership and stronger participation in these processes. In that direction, we support all the efforts of the Council of Ministers which it is clearly making and we can say that we are mildly optimistic at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21137	I thank the esteemed representative Kalabić. The next one was announced by Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21138	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and esteemed guests, above all to point out that the Serbian Democratic Party has already made a clear and public statement on BiH's path to the EU, and in this sense we will not say anything new today. So that's something we've said more than once and publicly and clearly so far. On the other hand, and given that, we will vote today to ratify this agreement, because we believe that this ratification is, in fact, a single stage without which road to the EU is not possible. And either that's the most important reason why we're going to support today's agreement, or its ratification. I must say, I don't see any great reason for contentment if we have in mind that we are the last country to ratify this agreement. Is it a pleasure to know that we are the last or the pleasure of the fact that, well, here we are, and we are ratifying this. I have a feeling that we've come to this agreement, that we've come because we've come to our turn. I've read several times in various written media that this agreement has surprised us. And really, if we look at how much our economy is willing to apply the Agreement, then he really did surprise us. And if we look on that side, then we have no great reason for pleasure except, I repeat, the fact that this is a stage without which it is impossible to move on. You see, when you take the Blue Book, then you can see that here are 62 pages of text that talk about general provisions, about rights, about the obligations of the signatories of the Agreement. And then 511 pages is the trade part that speaks exclusively of our obligations and which, at this stage, is now exclusively against us. And one thing is certain, what Mr. Dolić said, that funds from pre-accession funds, even, when we get them, and I'm not sure, I'm not sure, but we haven't yet gotten the conditions to get them, we won't get them quickly, but when we get them, I can't compensate for the damage caused by the use of these 511 pages. Now, these 511 pages, we're not 12 ready to welcome and responsibility, which is why those who exercise power today, but not just them. You can't just come down to these two or two and a half years. So the responsibility is borne, I must say, before, by the way, by the government because simply this process isn't prepared properly. I do not think that this is some reward for our results, rather I would say that the EU wanted to stimulate BiH to try to give itself a chance to solve the internal problems it has, and there are clearly many. I am not sure that there is a political will in BiH at present, especially in parliamentary majority parties, to fully implement this agreement. I'm afraid it doesn't exist. I'd better say there's no political will. As for the economy, I'm sure the most they'll use, of course with what they have to use, will try to use the members of 38th and 39th who give some opportunity to protect themselves in case everything goes wrong, and I think they'll go wrong. So it seems to me that these two provisions of this agreement will be very often the subject of analysis and attempts to prove through them that we, by applying this agreement, have actually come into an unequal position and that we have exposed our weak economy to the unfair competition of the Community. I am also not sure that there is a political will to implement Article 70(2) of this Agreement, which says that harmonisation of the legislation will begin on the day of the signing of this Agreement and gradually extend to all elements of the legal assets of the Community under this Agreement by the end of the transitional period. I'm afraid the last time has shown that we're going to have a lot of problems here. Much more than it has ever looked, and much more obligations than it has ever been, given that today we will ratify this agreement. Not wanting to further spread this story, we will support the ratification of this agreement, but I must say we are not feeling any great pleasure today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21139	I would like to thank Reverend Novaković. The following was reported by distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21140	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, we at the People's Party Work for the better think this agreement is a rescue for political problems and economic problems in BiH. But I will tell a story that can be picturesque so that we should behave or not behave in the further realization of this agreement. When there was a flood in one area, and the boats came for people to save them from the water that came in every minute, one man refused to enter the boat and said, "I pray to Bog and Bog will save me from the flood." And the first boat came back. After a few hours, another boat comes to him. Again, so they beg him to enter, he responds, the third boat comes, he begs him to enter the boat again, he responds as well. And he drowned in that water, and came before Bog, and said, Bog, I expected you to save me, and you did nothing. So he says, "Man, I'm sending three boats for you to save you, and you didn't want to go in either." Through this agreement, the EU is sending us salvation, but if we don't want to get into that boat, if we don't want to accept that salvation, of course we won't even be saved. Now it's up to us, in the next period, whether this agreement will be for us or not. I would like to look a little bit more at the Interim Agreement on Stabilisation and Association, which is very demanding for BiH, which expects our economy to face a rather severe market game and when we evaluate it in detail, we see that it is much more correct for BiH than the practice we practice in trade with neighbouring countries. In this Interim Agreement, we have a huge number of items where the EU has said in a correct way - your economy is more underdeveloped, you have a transitional period of three to five years, don't remove customs duties on these products, but in that period of three to five years prepare your economy to face our economy, in fact, so that it can be competitive when that period is missing. Unfortunately, as we now see from practices in trade with neighbouring countries, we can also conclude that what the EU has done to us correctly and has given us a chance to prepare our economy over the next three to five years, probably not to be used. Because through the regime of non-implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, in particular the areas of protection measures, practically this benefit is now being used by neighbouring countries and what was envisaged for the economy will be achieved by neighbouring countries, their economies will realise because their products will be bh. The market is protected from competition from the EU, and our economy certainly cannot oppose them, because it is far more underdeveloped, has far worse conditions. In particular, this applies to agriculture when we see that the incentives in BiH are ten times smaller, that the repromaterials are almost 50% more expensive, and we are fully implementing the regime with neighbouring countries without charging any customs duties, although we have chosen CEFTA to apply safeguard measures in the area where we believe we need them. For this reason, I think it would be very important for the Council of Ministers to apply the CEFTA Agreement in the future as agreed, in particular a member of the 23rd Bis where BiH fought, and did not want to sign the agreement without that member to apply safeguard measures, so that, within the next three to five years, it would practically use the transitional period to prepare its economy and could withstand this agreement fully, when it comes into force, with duty-free imports of EU products. If it doesn't happen in the next three to five years, then it's useless after that to do anything, because we won't have room to develop our economy anymore. So it would be necessary to implement the CEFTA Agreement in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, to synchronise these two agreements and prepare for the next three to five years, when we can expect pre-accession EU funds that will further strengthen our economy and implement this process without greater consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21141	I thank the esteemed representative Ivanković. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Velimir Jukić. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21142	Mr. Chairman,... members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, not long ago, we had a presentation and debate on this agreement and then we spoke very widely about everything this agreement meant for BiH. Today we are able to talk again about this agreement, only I think that we do not need so widely about all the details and everything that the Agreement means, but that today we need to express our support for this agreement and give consent to the ratification of this agreement. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I express my support for this agreement and believe this is a major step in BiH's EU accession process. Some of my colleagues here said they were worried. I don't think we have today, that we need to talk today about our obligations and our willingness to do everything in this agreement, to do as high and faster as possible, and then to expect from it a benefit for BiH. They are certainly very large and I expect that at the beginning of the application of this Agreement there may be some implications that are not good, which we do not expect, but in a short time, I am sure, they will benefit very large and much more than those possible damages that can occur at first. However, all the countries that have passed this time tell us their examples of just benefiting, moving forward, and that is much faster than those who have not signed such agreements. So the progress of the EU accession countries is much greater after signing such an agreement than by the time this agreement is signed. I expect the same for BiH, and I expect, of course, all BiH institutions to do their part of the job. And after careful reading of this agreement, it is clear that the obligations are large, significant, that in front of everyone in BiH, all institutions, especially the Council of Ministers, a very large and responsible job and we as the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I expect that we will contribute to the implementation of all the obligations provided for in this Agreement. In this faith, I, here, thank you for the given word, and I expect that, really, from today after the verification of this agreement, we will go much faster towards European integration and that our path, and I am convinced, will be quick, efficient and I expect that we will realize all of this in the next few years, when we will come into a new phase to become a candidate country, and then hopefully, very quickly and fully EU membership.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21143	I thank the esteemed representative Jukić. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21144	Mr. Chairman, after the presentation of the president of the club I belong to, Mr. Drago, I won't be long, but I wanted to underline two things that weren't discussed with the previous debaters. First of all, I'd like to look back on one part of the speech of my distinguished colleague Dolić, when there is also a call for the international community to remain here. I just want to say, with all 15 respects, here, and the High Representative to whom I and my party belong – I express deep respect for everything that he does. As long as we need a mentor to go to the EU, there's no luck. We must do everything to create conditions, to carry out this process ourselves. And as long as the mentor's here, be sure we'll take such slow steps as we've gone before. This, the very verification is after everything that has been done today a formal act that, of course, we will all support. But until that formal act, it wasn't easy to come by. It was meant to come out of the maze that we brought ourselves into, creating ourselves, stressing to myself the conditions and obstacles, here to come to this. So here in the last year or two, it's been done a lot to get out of these vicious circles. And one more thing I'd like to say. There were no words here, and I'd like it to be, but perhaps, at the next session. What is the obligation of us MPs in this Parliament in the context of implementation, or as everyone would say, of the implementation of this agreement that we will ratify today. If we rely on the fact that only the Council of Ministers brings us finished things so that we do what we do here, we vote – we do not vote, it will be nothing. First, we should implement what we agreed last time, that both homes form joint commissions precisely because of this, to strengthen logistics, to speed up the decision-making process to home. Second, there's something you should do. That would be good if the Expansive College came out with attitudes. Those things relating to the implementation of the Agreement to have special treatment, as some things have at the top somewhere, strictly confidentially, so it should also be here, related to the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. There are other things I would not like to do right now, but it would really be good and I suggest that one session, i.e. one point, be devoted – what about those measures that Parliament will take in terms of more effective decision-making and adoption of decisions directly related to the implementation of this Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-22-0.u21145	I thank and conclude the debate. No more reports. Please prepare to plead. I hope you're prepared. So we are voting on giving consent to ratifying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and BiH. Vote now. [[Applause]] I find that the Parliamentary House of BiH with 36 votes "for", without "abstained" and without the vote "against", or unanimously, has given consent to ratifying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between BiH and the European Communities and their member states. 16 Ladies and gentlemen, for this session, I would like to point out once again the importance of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement for BiH, for which we have just given consent to ratification. I also stress that we have a big job ahead of us in harmonising legislation and meeting all the conditions on the way to the EU, and in this context I call on all relevant factors in this country to be active in meeting their obligations as successfully as possible. On this occasion, I would like to inform you that the College of the House will send a letter to the parliaments of all EU countries asking that the sooner they put this agreement on the agenda for its adoption, or for ratification. At the same time, the College calls on the Commission for Foreign Affairs and Friendship Groups with EU countries to do the same. I am concluding the 37th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives. 15 minutes off. At 11.30 we begin the 38th session. The seat is closed at 11.10 p.m.
