ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18764	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 30th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, the OSCE and other international organisations in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our home, and representatives of certain NGOs. I warmly welcome all those present and thank you for having responded to our invitation to attend the House. I also welcome media representatives and thank you for their attention. We also informed the Director of the Public TV Service this time to organise a direct television broadcast of the session. According to service information, I find that the session is attended by 32 representatives. I think there's more, but 32 is enough for the quorum and for the decision. If someone hasn't registered, I'm asking you to register. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as has become common, and this time we have additions to the agenda proposals. ... The proposed agenda was complemented by three points: 1) The request of Representative Momčilo Novaković to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax under the Deviation Procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. It's listed as the 3rd point. 2) The initiative of MP Husein Nanić of the 29th session of the House, which reads: The BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with doing and providing the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH with the Information on the readiness of BiH institutions to assume obligations in connection with the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. 3) The appointment of three representatives of the House of Representatives to the Ad hoc Committee for the Implementation of the Appointing Procedure: (a) The Independent Committee as an independent body of the BiH Police Structure, 2 (b) the Committee for Appeals as an independent body of the BiH Police Structure, which are included in the agenda as the 15th and 16th item of the agenda. In the 8th point (the proposal for a Law on Border Control), we have an amendment because of the negative opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee. The debate and vote will take place in accordance with Article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. The report on the work and financial operations of JPNIO The Official Journal of BiH for 2007 was removed from the agenda for the reason that the relevant committee, held at the meeting on 2 June 2008, concluded that the report was previously declared by the Council of Ministers and therefore requested that the Official Journal report be removed from the agenda of the 30th session. You've got the final draft agenda on the bench. I remind you: the draft agenda is also agreed on by the House College in an extended composition. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear Representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18765	Gentlemen, chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I am, in accordance with Article 65. Rules of Procedure... To the House of Representatives, submitted a written request for the inclusion of a new item of the agenda and for that purpose provided a written explanation. In my application, I propose a new agenda item, which would read: A proposal for a conclusion on the development and submission of the Council of Ministers' information on state and status of property of the state, businesses and citizens of BiH in the countries resulting from the collapse of the former Yugoslavia, with a proposal for activity on its protection and takeover by legal owners. Without getting into the essence of the conclusion, I just want to say a few words about the reasons that led me to the proposal to supplement the agenda. Gentlemen, only a blind man sees that the property of the state of BiH, only a blind man can't see, so the state, that the property of the BiH state, its companies and its citizens in the countries is the result of the collapse of the former Yugoslavia in the postwar period of destruction, alienation, illegal privatisation, etc. I am convinced that our state is not doing enough to protect and restore its property, property to BiH firms and citizens. I'm convinced that even, on purpose, we didn't deliberately identify this property. BiH has returned property to all others, which is not the case with its assets in the countries of ex-Yugoslavia. Robbery and acquisition of the property of the BiH state, its companies and citizens in other countries is undoubtedly due to the joint action of criminals from BiH and domicile countries, and this is unfortunately driven by the idolatry of bh. The authorities. I have submitted at least five-six questions, an initiative and a request to protect the property of Agrokomerac in Serbia and Croatia, which is on impact, I will say freely, criminals and mobsters. For the last time, I also submitted a request to the Foreign Minister at the Council of Ministers for sending protest notes to Croatia and Serbia for failure to respect the Treaty of Succession and specifically warned about the sale of assets worth several million KM in Zagreb. I don't know what the minister did in the meantime, and 3 did try to do anything at all, but I must inform you that on that day, on May 13th, Agrokomerc, the BiH state and shareholders lost 4 million KM worth of property. I am telling you that this is an example of the joint action of criminals from BiH and Zagreb. A similar fate awaits the even more valuable business centre Kojaz in Belgrade, and the question is when we will be halalying with this property as well. I submit a proposal for this item of the agenda for the reason I am not satisfied with what our country is taking to protect our assets in the countries of ex-Yugoslavia. I believe that one professional information about BiH's assets in the countries of ex-Yugoslavia and its status would raise a number of issues and encourage activities to protect and return what remains of that property. I ask my fellow Members to support this conclusion and this proposal. I've heard that there was a debate at the Expansive College and that there was not enough understanding, allegedly because the Council of Ministers does not have the mechanisms to submit such information. I would absolutely disagree with that because in 2002, this state signed the Treaty on the Ex-Yugoslavia Property Succeeding of the Countries of the former Yugoslavia, and these very issues... are related to the contract. This contract has been confirmed by this House and this Parliament and I don't think there's any reason why the Council of Ministers can't provide us with any such information, even if in that information and confirm what this is all about, so there's no mechanism to... check it out and influence it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18766	I thank you, too. Just to specify at which point of the agenda we're discussing it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18767	I suggest that it be in front of these certificates of agreement and contract.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18768	So, as a new point 17.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18769	Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think it's 17.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18770	Thank you. The following has been registered by the honourable representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18771	Mr. Chairman, here I am, so for today's session, the 30th, I have prepared and suggested that it be completed with one item of the agenda. She was signed by me as an MP, and she's a part of the agenda required by the SDA Club to consider her. So I speak for the SDA Club. 4 You have received the text of the explanation. Given the meaning of the multiannual crisis, and especially after the last month, in the Football Football Federation of BiH, it can be said with certainty that the Football Alliance institution is not functioning in its own, entrusted, public functions. The Bosnian-Herzegovina and especially the sports public are rightly asking questions and seeking answers and reactions from the authorities, which is why there is no reaction from BiH institutions to the event in and around the Alliance. Whether and who will seek the protection of public interest, and initiate measures towards the Alliance and what the views of international institutions are, primarily, in relation to the situation in the Alliance. Because of the above and much more to be said, I, therefore, propose, for today's session, that, if Mr Dolić's point is accepted, a point: Considering the current situation in the Football Alliance of BiH. By not opening large debates from previous preparations, I have prepared the conclusion of one that could be adopted at this session with...the possibility that MPs would extend it, amend it, etc. which, means: tasked by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Civil Affairs, means two competent ministries, together with the competent committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, to discuss the situation concerning the event in the Football Alliance and to take the necessary activities out of their jurisdiction in order for the Football Alliance to carry out its public and entrusted function in the interests of sport and BiH and in accordance with the public powers conferred on it. So, in addition to this point, I would suggest this conclusion, that this conclusion be discussed and that these duties be transferred to the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18772	I thank the honourable representative. Please submit the proposal for a conclusion. The following has been registered by the honourable representative Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18773	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, BiH opened talks on the visa regime several days ago, should sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement within days. These are all things that are very positive. Today, among other things, we also have an examination of the security situation in BiH. And what do I mean? A very difficult affair on the part of abuse in the issue of personal documents has been shaken these days by BiH. It's about the CIPS project. Since the Minister of Security and the President of the Council of Ministers is here, I think it would be a convenient opportunity for them to give us some information, because Parliament cannot go over it without discussing it. If...I can, if not, then I have already submitted one business initiative, which would require the Council of Ministers to make one full information and a proposal for measures to prevent abuses in the procedure of issuing personal documents and then consider it as a special point of the agenda. And in that sense, I would ask, if possible as soon as possible, to put it on the agenda. 5 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18774	...to do so under the agenda: Agents' questions and answers. You can ask a representative question, and you can refer the initiative, so we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18775	I've been thinking about each other. I think it's better and better if an initiative is made, and I can also ask a representative question. I'm afraid we'll wait long for an answer, so we won't – we'll get it when it's no more...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18776	According to the Rules of Procedure, the reply may be delivered immediately at the sitting, or given orally. ... I believe we have competent members of the Council of Ministers here who can give answers immediately. Here, so until we get to that agenda point. So, the next one was signed up by a respected representative, Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18777	My intervention was tied... to point two, so:
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18778	Thank you. The next is a respected representative, Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18779	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished media representatives,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18780	I'm just asking for a little attention... so we can work more efficiently.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18781	I, as you know, asked at last session of the House of Representatives for the agenda to include the item of the agenda, which I titled as the Information on Features and Recognitions, which was handed by the most wanted war criminal Radovan Karadžić from 1992 to 1995. So that's what I suggested on May 14th this year to get into the agenda. Then I got an explanation from the College and from you chairing that for such a point of the agenda you need the relevant material. And you have sent me a letter, May 20, in which, for such a item of the agenda, you, among other things, state that the relevant material is needed, inviting me to act in accordance with that member of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representative and deliver the necessary 6 materials to be created, quote you: assumptions to discuss this material at the sitting of the House. As regards your memo, so today I am delivering you the relevant material in writing for the agenda item I am proposing again today, which should bear the title: Information on Features and Recognitions, which was handed by the most wanted war criminal Radovan Karadžić from 1992 to 1995. Among other things in the material, if you accept this proposal today to enter the agenda, you will have the opportunity to see that, for example, Vitomir Popović, a man who is today in the bid for even the Ombudsman for human rights in this country, is one of the winners of the Order. The same man, did he, who publicly on TV video, say that some journalists should be liquidated, etc. Among the winners are even Ratko Mladić, Biljana Plavšić and many others who have already proven war criminals because they were convicted in The Hague, etc. And given that for the not full moon, July 11th of this year, we also mark the Day of Genocide in Srebrenica, I think it would be very important and principled and political, and especially on the moral side to discuss this issue and to see why and for what merits is decorated Ratko Mladić who escapes, whether, from justice, as well as many others who are on that list. So, here, in accordance with your request, we have the starting material for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18782	I thank you. Here, you've already explained the position of the College. I'm glad you did that on the recommendations of the College. Please deliver these materials to the College here... to allow MPs to share, to have the opportunity, before we move on to a statement on the agenda. And please just make sure. You suggest that this point be placed on the agenda today and you say in which order.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18783	Like point 10.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18784	Dear Representative Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18785	I have an intervention on the incorrect allegations of an esteemed representative who spoke before me. Namely, here in this House we must express ourselves precisely. There are categories of those accused of war crimes and there are categories of those... that the court has convicted of war crimes. Those who are accused of war crimes, they are not war criminals, will prove or deny it. And I pray in that context to be very precise when it comes to very sensitive things. The names here are not important at all but an important approach and it is Parliament that must have the right approach.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18786	I thank the honourable representative. Wait a minute, wait a minute, why did Reverend Novaković come forward? 7
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18787	He called in half of these to discuss the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18788	I have to say, you're only registered here now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18789	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18790	You're only registered now. So... and what's been reporting now, are they replicas, what is it? So it's a replica. Dear Representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18792	Even as a replica and as a request to the College, it is determined according to the request of the honourable Messenger Bećirović. Since we have adopted a certain code, we have a Rules of Procedure, what is it that can be found on the agenda, does that mean that anything that goes by someone can be found on the agenda and that in some way exists. Why am I saying that? Because there's a series of incomparable things here, a series of illogicalities. And if we're going that way, it's not, you know that it's not our issue, we can do it right now... When he speaks, he doesn't mention the institution of the President of the Republic, so the question is now: What is it he's looking for? Whether private...records and private gifts of Radovan Karadžić, including part of... members of the SDP, are wanted. The man lived and gave people books, songs and so forth, because I didn't understand... that they were looking for the decorations of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, but they were looking for private what the man was giving, what he was doing, and I don't know, if I understood the matter well. That's why I'm sorry to burden this parliament with that. And if requested in another context, also if added, what about those who have already been arrested and in The Hague are in front of the war crimes court verdict, and they shared medals throughout BiH. If you want, it's not a problem. Should we introduce it here to trouble ourselves, so we'll see how we'll banalize that thing, that some generals, who are in front of a conviction, and they've shared the soldiers with medals, if you want to problem that thing, that's not the problem. So I'm asking the Kolegijum to try to determine by these things, because this, you see, if we go this way, it won't lead anywhere.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18793	For the replica, has anyone answered? Dear Representative Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18794	I am pleased first that my colleague Branko Dokić is calling for respect for terminology, primarily constitutional terminology in this country. However, it would be good if counterpart Dokić 8 had intervened earlier, especially in the performance of individuals who were completely past any, I am now speaking constitutionally, presenting some of their assessments that were not at all in agreement with the Constitution of BiH, which we had the opportunity to hear often in this House without speaking beyond Parliament, from BiH being a federal state to joint institutions and a number of other terms mentioned here, and as such, the Constitution of BiH does not know them at all. I think that today we need to deal with this initiative in principle, however we have shown, here is the willingness, or those who have shown it, to discuss property, let's say, the former system. I don't know what the issue is to discuss the traits and actions of Karadžić, Mladić and others, for me must be war criminals because, if they weren't innocent, they'd probably respond to the court of justice, so there's no reason. There is a very clear initiative for the medals. They are even published in the Official List and we can discuss these things today, to see how we will define ourselves as a state and society against certain things that, certainly, BiH is burdening itself, and not just some questions, as some wanted at the last session, which may be further in the past than this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18795	Thank you. The following has applied for a debate on this agenda point, the distinguished representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18796	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First, I must say that I will also mention one issue burdening BiH. One draft agenda item that has long been burdened, not only by BiH, but before that I must say that the way in which we introduce or introduce certain things into this Parliament does not contribute to the work of this Parliament and to the serious work of this Parliament. You see, gentlemen, it is undeniable that the medals are given by institutions that still exist in the RS today, and I do not see what would be controversial for such institutions to give medals and, as counterpart Kalabić said, are not private, and, unfortunately, we have not yet condemned those institutions yet, nor have we, unfortunately, lost them in the RS, and neither will we lose them, if Bog so. So, I think that much more seriously, gentlemen, you should approach the questions that you suggest you put on the agenda here, but of course it's your right. I now want to move on to what I have reported first of all, and this is a proposal to put on the agenda of the House: a resolution on the condemnation of the communist regimes. Namely, although one of the greatest evils, which the world has hit in the last century, are communist regimes, especially those totalitarian communist regimes – the European Parliament has decided on this issue, too, by adopting one resolution – and I have decided to propose to this Parliament a resolution which, in a way, has already been adopted, means on a much higher institution than ours, but of course slightly adapted to our conditions so that they, which is the heritage of the consequences of this communist regime, by deciding this home or by accepting this resolution, are not ever allowed to bring any more to these areas any totalitarian regime. And not just a totalitarian communist but any totalitarian regime. 9 For this reason, I have decided, on behalf of the SDS Club, to propose a resolution already said on the condemnation of the communist regimes, which would make it clear to this Parliament, most clearly and directly, about the resolution, certainly very difficult but at least in one part of the resolution, the consequences that many people, unfortunately, had in this regime. Of course, I agree, and if the House decides to refer this to the commission phase,...I will also contribute to the debate in the commission phase. This resolution, so... I'm handing it over now... to all MPs, so I'd like all MPs, and I'd like to see if we could open the debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18797	At what point of the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18798	Well, you see, I haven't really thought about much in which we can put the agenda points, but, here, since my colleagues were before me, so after their points, if, of course, they're allowed to be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18799	Thank you. Dear Representative Bećirović: Replica. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18800	Yeah. I must say, I didn't expect a colleague of Novaković to report on this agenda point. I didn't think he would defend his first SDS president, however, counterpart Novaković, here, 13, 14 years after Srebrenica in '95, chose to defend SDS President Radovan Karadžić, and Radovan Karadžić still has no place where he belongs, which is before the justice court in The Hague. I must say that my colleague Novaković really surprised me and that this is a real shame for the BiH state to be brought into this state that Karadžić, 13 years later, does not have justice before the court, but that there are people from the SDS who defend the man responsible in this BiH parliament, among other things, and for the genocide in Srebrenica. More counterpart Novaković says: What would be controversial, what has Radovan Karadžić awarded the medal? It's true, I have no words to describe it with such a single sentence. If colleagues do not understand what is controversial, then I am really asking the question: How far has the international community and BiH states come in this country? A kolega, Novaković, should know that what Adolf Hitler represents for the Jews in Europe, represents for the victims of genocide Radovan Karadžić. And try to reorient such a serious topic to the story of, as you said, communist regimes, etc., at the very least, is not correct. He was to deliver the relevant material, and he was to quote this resolution, which he obviously did not read and about which there was no dispute. We can talk about it here, but he shouldn't have one such initiative to try to transfer to another time, because what his SDS president Radovan Karadžić did in two days in Srebrenica, the regime couldn't have done in 40 years. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18801	And I want to remind you that you haven't delivered the materials for the point you're proposing yet, so try to do it. Replica: Honorable representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18802	After this, I only now see how right I am when I proposed this resolution. Namely, this is a classic or typical way of acting someone from that totalitarian regime. You see, in no word did I mention the name Radovan Karadžić, but the institutions of the RS, in any word. You see, Mr. Bećirević, I'm very careful, unlike you, what I'm going to say. And when I get up here to say something, then make sure I won't give you the will that you can seriously discuss what I said afterwards. And this time I didn't do it, but I was talking about the institutions of the RS, which still exist today and which no one has ever abolished and will not end. So, I guess we're all clear after all this. And don't be rude, and I'll try not to use a word of that regime that I was just talking about, but I think the least I can say is don't be rude to deceive the public, and these people have heard, you can't deceive them, because I made it clear, and everyone heard what I said. It's not right. And not that it's not correct, but it's normal for you that it's not correct and collegiate, we've seen it many times before, but it's not true. And the truth and I should have the first thing here in Parliament. And I won't speak any further, because you don't have the right to a replica anymore, so I'm afraid you'll be in debt, given that you fired it, you'll owe me. So I won't go any further, or this, or any other question that you're talking about today, believe me, I won't talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18803	Thank you. Dear Representative Marković: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18804	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'm really as an MP ready to support every initiative and a proposal for a agenda point that has some purpose and some meaning. But the proposal for this kind of agenda, where Mr Bećirović says that he is interested or the SDP who received all the medals from the person he mentioned in the RS, is not sure that he is so interested and that he is so interested in who has received a medal in the RS. I'd say it's one thing to say, poor intention to raise certain tensions in public, so they're supposed to pick up some points. And I believe that the person he mentioned today who is the subject of another international institution, that is, observation and... other processes, that if he were to hear today how much Mr Bećirović has dedicated to him the time and words in the BiH Parliament, he would probably be able to give him a certain distinction or recognition rather than anyone in the RS. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18805	Replica: Honorable representative Bešlagić, then distinguished representative Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18806	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I had no intention of replicating, because I know there is no replica on the agenda. I know it's the adoption of the agenda, and when the debate opens, it'll be a replica. Well, since you've allowed it, let me say one thing now. It's not clear to me that there's so much replication about one proposal that's been delivered to and for which all the material has been delivered, I'm not saying what it's like. But I also find it very strange that Mr. Novaković and everyone else's statement when you gave the initiative on the ban on fascist signs and abusive words being spoken here in Parliament, that this initiative could not have passed. I'm not going to comment any further, so it's an honor to all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18807	Thank you. The second Vice-President: correction of the incorrect statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18808	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the correction of the incorrect allegations is the half-truth spoken by honourable MP Bešlagić, which is that this parliament did not support the initiative. He didn't support the other part of the initiative you didn't say. So this parliament supported the initiative, and only you of the SDP did not vote for it. And, on the other hand, it's not about supporting the initiative, it's about the way you put your initiatives in this House. Part of your MPs, I'd say, two-fifths of your club speak hate speech, not reconciliation in this House. The other MPs make their opponents and political enemies. And that's why your initiatives, obviously, and the intention you're doing it to, and especially the tone and words you're using here, are hate speech. And we are not in favour of the way you do...to support your initiatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18809	Thank you. Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. When you get your word, then get up, and you ask first... is there a business replica? So I'll answer you. Anything that's being discussed, you can use it. I don't recommend it, but, well, whenever you want, you use it. ... Once you take advantage of this other one, you will no longer be entitled to this agenda point. The distinguished representative Jovičić appeared before, and then the distinguished representative Bešlagić for the replica. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18810	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of NGOs and the media, as I remember well and follow what is being done here in Parliament, and I will not only remember whether this was before two or three sessions of the House of Representatives, Mr Bećirović said and today, along with a proposal to include this item of the agenda, concerns one man, and I will now explain what it is about, because I am speaking openly. So, Mr. Bećirović, two or three sessions ago, has a stenogram, said Milorad Dodik, the SNSD president, received an order from Radovan Karadžić during the war. So today he tried to wrap the whole story about how everyone else was getting some medals. So, here it is clear what it is, to put the leader of the political party in focus, and certainly, it is indisputable, the leader who is most trusted by the Serbian people in the RS, whom the SDP turned against with trees, stones, medals, various activities, and I don't know what it isn't anymore. That's why I'm publicly saying you don't need any material for that point. Mr. Milorad Dodik received the order as an MP, as the people would say, just because he sat there linearly, by automation, as a member of Parliament at that time of war, and not as a member of the party's leading party then, because he didn't even have a party, he was an independent MP. So it was a completely different option, and so on. Well, if this explanation isn't enough for you, and you're doing everything you can to put it into focus, because you're going to have a pre-election campaign now, so you're going to use it everywhere, like you've done so much, and I'm asking you to do more of those actions, because you're more popular with SNSD and Milorad Dodik than we're going to contribute to any pre-election activities at all to even raise the ratings that are really growing right now. It is not my fault that you have a member of one of your parties in the RS, a Mr. Petrović, that he is the leader, who has entrusted him with all that he manages. I wish you had two more, so it'd be Serbian three, so I don't provoke you, but you don't have what I'm going to do to you. So don't wrap these things up and serve this people and Parliament. I explained to you why the president of the ruling party... in BiH received an order that by automation only because he was an MP, not what he did anything, which you would have used, not because he was a member of that political party that you are accusing today, etc. I think you're clear now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18811	Next replica: Honorable representative Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18812	Just, Mr. Živković, I'd like to ask you not to give us instructions on how we're going to behave. We will act as a party that has its principles, has its views. And if you think you're gonna get us in line, then you have to believe that's not who we are. We will speak our views, it will be for, it will be against, we believe that it bothers you, and what can it be.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18813	Replica reply: Honored second vice-president Dr. Živković. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18814	One, one sentence. We really don't want to give you SNSD sermons, we're giving you friendly criticism, because it's our desire to make this BiH as good a country as possible tomorrow with you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18815	Thank you. No more reports. We're going in a series of suggestions. The first is the proposal for a respected representative of Dolić to include the item on the agenda: a proposal for a conclusion on the development and submission of the Council of Ministers' information on state and status of state, businesses and citizens of BiH in the countries that have fallen apart from the former SFRY, with an activity plan on its protection and takeover by legal owners. The proposal is for an esteemed representative to be the 17th item of the agenda. Please prepare to vote. Vote on a proposal for inclusion in the agenda. Now! With 22 votes "yes", four "against",... an insufficient entity majority. We can't get a match. You will be notified within the specified time limit. We move to a statement on the proposal by the distinguished representative Nanić to include himself in the agenda: Considering the current situation in the Football Football Federation of BiH. And we have a proposal for a possible conclusion, material on this agenda point. Please prepare for a statement: this proposal to be classified as, here now, the 17th point, because this previous one has not passed, 17. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 17 votes "yes", two "against", 17 abstentions, no entity majority. No matching, you will be informed of the results of the alignment. We move on to a statement on the proposal of the distinguished representative Denis Bećirović to include, as a 10th item, information on the features and recognitions that have been in the agenda since '92. '95. The most wanted war criminal Radovan Karadžić delivered the year. Please prepare to make a statement on the proposal. Vote now! 11 votes "yes", 14 "against", there is no majority. The proposal was not accepted. So the proposal wasn't accepted. I have a proposal for a respected representative, Novaković. And before we speak about the proposal for a agenda item, as the previous question must be made clear whether we are ready to discuss this proposal before the commission phase. Thus, as the previous question referred to in Article 148. 14 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Whether, firstly, we are going to declare whether we will first refer this proposal to the committee responsible. We plead. Please prepare yourselves. Now! 26 votes "for", one "against", four "abstained". I agree that we have chosen to refer the initiative to the committee responsible. How? None of the proposals to change the agenda, what is it? Dear Representative Huskić, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18817	I'll ask you a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18818	So you decide when we get to that point on the agenda. You decide, we don't decide. So it wasn't a proposal to change the agenda, here. So, since no proposal for amending the proposed agenda has been accepted, I would like to conclude that for today's 30th session of the House of Representatives, the following 1. Agents' questions and answers; 2. Confirmation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers' decision on the resolution of Sven Alakalaj, Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Council of Ministers, Senad Šepić, Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs at the Council of Ministers, Igor Crnadko, Deputy Defence Minister for Policy and Planning at the BiH Council of Ministers; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax under the shortened procedure, pursuant to Article 126, is required by Advocate Momčilo Novaković. Rules of Procedure; 4. Proposal for a framework law on secondary vocational education and training in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 15 8. Proposal for a law on border control, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee; 9. Report on the work of the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2007; 10. Proposal for a conclusion of the Constitutional Legislative Commission in the context of the debate on Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2007; 11. Proposal for a conclusion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics to discuss information from the Council of Ministers on the work of the State Commission for the Examining of Truths of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Židov and others in Sarajevo in the period from 1992 to 1995; 12. Proposal for a conclusion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee in the context of an information debate on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2007; 13. Proposal for a conclusion of the Transport and Liaison Committee in the context of a discussion on the business of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public TV Service and measures to overcome the situation identified by the audit reports on the financial operations of the BiH Public TV Service for 2005 and 2006 (debate at the 8th plenary session); 14. A House 29-session initiative by MP Husein Nanić, which reads "The Council of Ministers of BiH is tasked with also delivering to the Parliamentary Assembly the Information on the preparedness of BiH institutions to make commitments, in connection with the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement"; 15. The appointment of three representatives of the House of Representatives in the Ad hoc committee for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of a) the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH police structure, b) the Committee on Appeals of Citizens as an independent body of BiH police structure; 16. Proposal for a Club of Representatives of the SDA to change membership in interparliamentary friendship groups; 17. The agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Macedonia on cooperation in the fight against terrorism, organised crime, illegal drug trafficking, psychotropic substances and pre-surveillances, illegal migration and other criminal acts, (b) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Macedonia on readmission (readmission) persons who are illegally staying, (c) the Framework Agreement between BiH and the European Communities on the rules of cooperation relating to the financial support of the EC of Bosnia and Herzegovina as part of the implementation of the aid instruments of pre-accession assistance (IPA), (d) a two-year agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Regional Office of the World Health Organisation for Europe 20082009, e) Budapest Agreement on the international recognition of the deposit of micro-organisms for patenting procedures, f) a protocol relating to the international seal registration of seals, g) of the Convention on the protection of the principles of the European Union and the laws of law of origins of origin. We move on to realising the established agenda, point one A. 1. Agents' questions and answers
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18821	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here's how you read, a very interesting correspondence between the Federation Government and the Federal Board of Geodetic and Property Legal Affairs on my letter, that is, on my question. And my question was about that famous plane shoot in the RS where certain crosses in the RS appeared. And I have to say, I got answers today... So, I got answers from the Federal Board of Geodetic and Property Legal Affairs, where they say they're not in charge of this, and they recommend that I ask it again, means the government of the Federation, that they're eventually asking the Ministry of Space Resolution for answers. And I would say this and ask, of course, our service to do it again. It seems to me that there is no answer here, and that someone is hiding for whom, under what conditions, the money for which the tenderes and how the performers were chosen and, above all, for whom this aviation was carried out. This question has been asked for two months. So there's no address that can answer. Did 17 of us get into a situation where in BiH, we could literally film our country as much as we wanted without anyone knowing who was in charge of giving permission to do it all? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18822	I thank the honourable representative. The following came forward for a comment by a respected representative, Mehmedović, and after that, a respected representative of Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18823	I would like to comment on the answer I received from the Joint College and on my representative question: On the basis of which provisions of the Rules of Procedure the College adopted a position regarding the application of the laws of the Communication Act? Unfortunately, I have received an answer that is not in line with the Rules of Procedure for two reasons. One is formal: and formal is the reason why he could not bring a stand to the Joint College, because no Bošnjak from the College members was present, as I recall. And the second is essential: namely, in your answer to my parliamentary question you are calling on Article 25(3)... Rules of Procedure... The House of Representatives, where it is said, in position (3) of the Joint College of Decision shall take a consensus. In case a consensus is not reached on a matter, the final decision is made by homes. I don't know why you could even appeal to this provision of the Rules of Procedure, when you are in your position (5) defined jurisdiction... The Joint College, where exactly what the Joint College is responsible for, is listed. So please - here I repeat the question - that you are precise about your position, because you have entered the area of authentic interpretation of the Law of Communications, to which you have no right under any provision of the Rules of Procedure..., nor the House of Representatives, nor the House of Peoples. So here I am renewing my question to be more precise in my answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18824	Here,... you'll get an answer right away, I'll be more specific right away. I would like to remind you of Article 5 of the amendment and the addition of the Rules of Procedure, which says: The quorum consists of most members of the Joint College, provided that at least two members from each home are present, which was held at that session of the Joint College. The Joint College shall take its decisions by consensus of those members present, who shall vote, which is also true. I: If efforts to achieve consensus fail, decisions are made by homes, which was not necessary. So, you've got this and it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that is, Article 5 of the amendment and the addition of the Rules of Procedure... The House of Representatives. Next comment. Dear Representative Bahtić. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18825	...with an answer to the RAC where they say they're not in charge. I asked the question, specifically the Federal Television and the 60-minute show. I think they are obliged to react beyond the application, because all BiH citizens know that this show is a classic ractarian show, which is used in such a dictionary as 'link'. In all modern European countries, such a show would be banned, and let the RAC gentlemen see how many lawsuits there are, how much the Federal Television loses because of '60 minutes', and that pays all the citizens. If it were commercial television, and if he were paying out of his pocket, I'd ask him if he'd be interested in any political options. It's all paid for, and fines to the courts of the tv tax. If we are all BiH institutions, the RAC gentlemen must take care of each dinar of BiH institutions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18826	Thank you. No more? There is. Dear Representative Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18827	I finally got an answer to one parliamentary question and I have to say – except I'm unhappy with the answer, and my question was: Why do we representatives have diplomatic visas for half a year, and before we had a year? - I am not satisfied that in the answer, i.e. in copying my representative's question, where it says so, and then the alleged signs are listed, so my question, where I am now quick 2,4,6,8 language errors corrected, so translates my question. I, I keep screaming here that I don't get materials in Croatian, and now that I ask a question in Croatian, someone translates it again and then sends it to me as part of the answer. I think it's... it's hitting on one human dignity, and it's not for the honor of whoever wrote this. And I'd like to get an answer, an answer that includes my question, just as I asked it. I'm really asking again, the exact answer was the same, but this quoted my parliamentary question as that. If I've made some mistake in the spirit of my tongue, I'll accept it, but I know for sure what I wrote, I have a copy of what I wrote, and you can see from the stenogram. I don't think I know what I'm gonna... call, but I'm really hurt by what I got in response.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18828	I thank the honourable representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18829	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18830	You can, you can. I mean, otherwise the questions and the answers don't replicate, but you can, here. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18831	I am pleased to hear that there was a complete consensus within the present members of the College. But when I said I had an objection to the essence of your answer, you replied to me that you had the right to make a point. You have the right to take a stand on those matters you're in charge of. You entered the authentic interpretation of the legal provisions, which, as far as I know, the Rules of Procedure did not give you the opportunity. Therefore, I will, here, renew my question, to tell me, on the basis of which business provisions have you brought your position on matters that you are not in charge of?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18832	Thank you. Dear Representative Dolić. And for questions! Any more comments on the answers received? There isn't. Next: questions. I don't have anyone reported electronically. So, electronically, the first one is Rifat Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18833	Thank you very much. Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, today I have two parliamentary questions to ask. The first question is the question of the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees in the Council of Ministers: What can you do to prevent discrimination and violations of human rights against convicts and prisoners in the Federation of BiH, who have been denied the right to pardon for almost four years after High Representative Pedi Ešdaun abolished the Law on the pardon of the Federation of BiH in late 2004, while at the same time, throughout this period, convicts and prisoners in RS consume this right? There have been several attempts by the Federation Parliament to pass the Law on Compassion, but proposals and initiatives have failed because of the discrepancies at which level it is necessary.... to pass this law and who can pardon convicts for the crimes and the jurisdiction of four criminal laws in BiH. To ask... this question I am encouraged by more requests from prisoners from the Federation of BiH prisons which I have received in the past month, including those who have long had conditions for pardoning and ending the sentence but cannot exercise this right because of these strange outwittings and obstructions. The second question is also the question of the Security Minister in the Council of Ministers: What can you do to prevent and combat organised begging in BiH, which has passed over every measure, which undermines BiH's reputation and which often passes into incident situations because of the insolence and aggression of business beggars and their employers? We are witnessing daily ugly images on the streets of our cities where business begging is organised on stage, which, apart from the ugly picture, very often causes an incident of 20 situations because of the brazen and aggressive behaviour of beggars towards citizens who ignore or comment on requests for charity. It is obvious that this is about an organised begging behind which the proposing bosses who organise and oversee this obviously lucrative job, and very often it is about persons who are not even citizens of BiH and it is obvious that the competent institutions here, law enforcement authorities are not doing their job to prevent and combat this phenomenon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18834	I thank the honourable representative. I would once again like to welcome the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the present ministers and deputies and to introduce them to the Rules of Procedure that, if they wish, they can give answers here immediately at the session. The following is... a registered esteemed representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18835	...the chairman, here I will take the opportunity to also welcome and take advantage of the presence of the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Foreign Affairs with a question and if possible, if possible, to get an oral answer today. It is known that holders of a diplomatic passport, namely the right to a diplomatic passport, receive a passport with a five - year period of validity. As is known, diplomatic passports are also exempt from obligations on Schengen visas based on bilateral arrangements with other countries and other visas, i.e. visas and other countries. Unfortunately, it remains in application of a decision by either the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the validity of the diplomatic passport is certified by a diplomatic visa every six months. I appreciate that the reasons... which may have been managed by the authorities, at a time when that decision was made, in a way, to say, have been removed and I appreciate that it would be more appropriate to increase the validity, i.e. extend the period of validity of the diplomatic visa. I note, too, that these decisions and the holders of diplomatic passports in BiH, i.e. the length of the diplomatic visa, have been brought into an unequal position, as diplomatic visas for some holders of the diplomatic passport are valid for a year, and for some, such as MPs, every half year. This is what I'm saying that would be good to hear the answer. There is a reason indeed that more so, this decision is applied in this way, or perhaps, possibly, there could be some change. And here I am again mentioning, I am taking advantage of both the opportunity and the presence and the chairman, or the Secretary-in-Office, and if I can give an answer immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18836	Thank you. Here, we now give the opportunity to honor Minister Sven Alkalaj, Minister of Foreign Affairs to give an answer. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18837	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I would take this opportunity and apologize to Reverend Zorić for this mistake, and in language, because with us at the ministry: whoever gets the item, he does it in the language for which he has been assigned. So he's probably out of those frames. I apologize on behalf of the ministry. I think the error is inappropriate and should be published in the original text. I hope, therefore, that the honourable MP will accept this apology, by taking the opportunity to answer this question immediately. The current rule, which has been in force for about five or six years, has issued diplomatic visas for staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a year, while people who go to diplomatic and consular offices for even two years. However, the regulation also states that members of BiH's House of Representatives, as holders of the diplomatic passport, are issued a visa for six months. We're thinking the same thing in all the reform actions that we're doing, from the law in the doing of foreign affairs and other documents, in order to improve the work at all, took this into consideration. I don't see any reason for MPs to have a visa limited to six months. It may have been about five or six years ago when the decision was made and we are considering that such a decision and correcting it, so that MPs also have the same, as foreign ministry employees, the exact duration of the diplomatic visa. All accidents would be avoided because, after signing this facilitating visa regime and bilateral agreements, diplomatic passports should no longer be required to carry them anywhere in Europe, under the Schengen Agreement, visas and free movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18838	Thank you. The following, for the last question, was registered by the honourable MP Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18839	This question of mine is more like some kind of initiative. So, I propose to the BiH presidency to speed up activities on ensuring the official translation of the International Court of Justice's ruling in the BiH lawsuit against Serbia-Montenegro, and in the case of the application of the Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of the Crime of genocide. The proposal for this initiative does not really need to be further explained, and I expect the Presidency on this issue to speed up its...activity as a competent authority for this case.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18840	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18841	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. 22 Members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members, today I ask one parliamentary question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and this is the next. The European Commission's document Pre-accession Assistance Instruments, so-called IPA projects, BiH as a potential candidate country in that status, has two of the five IPA components opened, and this: assistance in transition and institution building and cross-border co-operation. Under the allowed IPA projects, BiH has applied certain projects to the European Commission. I ask a question and ask for information: What IPA projects have been running since the start of the project evaluation and what is their status today? What are the running projects to the European Commission on the 2008 pre-accession aid project and are BiH institutions ready for the application and implementation of these projects?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18842	I thank the honourable representative. The next is the second deputy president, Dr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18843	Before I ask the question, now reminds me, honourable MP Kadrić that I was asking a question and asked the Presidency to send us an official translation of the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution of BiH first to Paris, and then deliver as an official translation that we have here in BiH, so here we wait for it to come. And the question is addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: When will the revision of the document take place in the general directions and priorities for the implementation of the foreign policy of BiH and when will it be referred to the procedure of the Foreign Affairs Act or the Foreign Affairs Act (... I don't know what its real name is)? On a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Bureau adopted and then delivered to the parliamentary procedure, i.e. to consider the document that I stated on 26.3.2003. So there's been a long time since that document was here in Parliament. Until today, we haven't had a chance to hear about his revision. At its 15th session, this parliament discussed it, received the document, we have the conclusion, it was the first, and the second: that a transcript of the document would be submitted to the BiH Presidency to take account of the remarks and proposals and suggestions made in the discussion. That was June 27, 2003. It seems to me that these two important documents are also making a big problem for our representations, the DKP networks, but also for all officials who in BiH or in the world seem to be late in these affairs and that we only needed more than one year for the Internal Organisation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18844	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18845	Thank you, Chairman. I have two questions. The first question was addressed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers to Professor Nikola Špirić. The question is: What is specifically done about passive subsilence, which has the data on how many assets, the claims on liabilities incurred before 31.3.1992 on this basis have to do with former SFRY entities from other... and from one and another entity? What did the Serbian Parliament adopt in December 2007 about the adoption of amendments to the Privatisation Supplement Act in Serbia? I'm just going to go through the explanation... it's something wider. This matter is regulated by Annex G of the Agreement on the Sucession of the former SFRY, the things and rights of passive subsilence located on the territory of another country... ex Yugoslavia,... the state based on the succession of state property, i.e. the state association of BiH. Who's going to answer that nothing's been done for years about passive subsilence? To answer right now, because while those who do not know or do not want to do their job and sit quietly, the Serbian Parliament in December 2007, and similar fate is both with property and in other former republics of the former SFRY, it adopted amendments and additions to the Law on Privatisation in the Republic of Serbia. One of the changes adopted is literally, I quote: Capital and assets are privatised to non-society enterprises established by parts of the company in the Republic of Serbia whose head office is located in the territory of the former SFRY (completed quote). Immediately after the entry into force of this law, Serbia's Privatisation Agency announced the sale of "Agrokomerac" property, "Šipad Export-Import", "Šipad-tursa", "Unicoerca", "Sippad Komerca" and "unikomerca" and other BiH firms. The assets of hundreds of millions of marks protected by the Anex G Agreement on the Succession of the former SFRY can be reliably spoken of. Is anyone already in BiH's power preparing to open proceedings before international courts that would prevent violations of international law, especially Annex G, which has obliged all countries of ex-Yugoslavia to fully respect... this property? How is it possible and who will respond that no one officially knows how much of this property is in Serbia and other republics of the former SFRY? For this reason, which institution held an emergency session, and did the foreign ministry direct a demarch to the Serbian authorities for the adoption of this law? The second parliamentary question also concerns the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Professor Nikola Špirić: What is specifically done on issues, I apologize, I just mixed them up, is the same to Professor Špirić: Why is no process of verifying the origin and collection of customs duties? 24 I am not satisfied with the response of the BiH Council of Ministers to the question I asked... at the 18th session, held in 12.12.2007 for the following reasons. In his reply, the BiH Council of Ministers quoted the provisions of the Free Trade Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Turkey, which say: If there is no response to the request for a verification of the origin of goods within 10 months, the customs authorities will shorten the right to preferential treatment, which means that...the body that launched the process of verifying origin will initiate the procedure for the collection of customs duties. If the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations submitted a request for the certification of the Euro 1 Certificate in 17.1.2006, this is the period from which the 10 months, which is known to the competent, will begin, will be the administration for indirect taxation. Although it has been 26 months since then, why haven't you asked the director of the Directorate for indirect taxation: What is waiting for the payment of customs duties? In particular, if it is known that the Euro 1 Certificate of 11.5.2005 which was... the reason for checking everyone else is not authentic, i.e. It is not issued by the customs authority of the Republic of Turkey but is false. The director of the Direct Taxation Board was staying almost on an official visit... The Republic of Turkey and, as far as I know, the reason for the visit is the problem of importing oil derivatives with the Euro 1 Certificate from the Republic of Turkey. I ask the question and ask the answer: Did and if not, why not ask the issue of the Euro 1 textile certificate? I have not received the following answers from the Council of Ministers of BiH as well as from the Directorate for Direct Taxation: What has been done so far in the election of the new Director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation because of the fact that the current director of the mandate expired on 18.12.2007? Since the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (SIPA) stated in its reply that it is not familiar with the case of non-payment of customs duties due to the false display of the origin of goods from the Republic of Turkey, I once again ask the Parliament's competent service that all my parliamentary questions concerning the above be provided to SIPA with complete documentation. Also, because of the fact that SIPA is in its answer to my parliamentary question: How is it possible that... Semir will be sentenced to two-and-a-half years in prison for the crime of customs fraud, and none of the customs officers in the customs station in Sarajevo responded? She stated that the address for it was the BiH Court, and therefore I ask the competent service to forward my question to the prosecution and the court. Something that goes with this question that can help understand the situation in this administration of indirect taxation. Mr. Director has... recently, in the last half-year or year, hired several influential people, or members of families of influential people, president: son of one of the strongest political parties employed first in Sarajevo, and then transferred to the Bosnian Shamac; wife of one of the assistant ministers who was admitted to the Regional Centre of Sarajevo in the ninth month of pregnancy and only a few days later went to sick leave; son-in-law of one of our MPs here, fellow Members of Parliament who was assigned to the Customs Office High; brother... member of the Management Board... who was deployed to the Customs Administration... Sarajevo; a brother, a high-ranking member of the Council of Ministers; a wife of 25 -- president of the Republika Srpska National Assembly and the sister-in-law of the strongest opposition party in Republika Srpska. You can tell from this that... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18846	Please allow your colleague to finish the questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18847	This shows that the director has provided well with strong political support and that he can obviously do whatever he wants, and we here can ask as many questions as we want and deliver answers and get some answers that are neither male nor female. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18848	Thank you, too. I'm asking you, so here's what I'm saying. It means that there are no replicas on the parliamentary issues, but at the same time I ask all of you, the ones you intend to ask representative questions,...to really ask them questions. So, without... holding a lecture or I don't know about a particular issue. The next one was announced by a respected representative of Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18849	Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of Ministers, honored guests, before moving on to my parliamentary question, only correcting a false allegation. So the wife of the president of the National Assembly of the RS does not work at all at the Directorate for indirect taxation, she is employed in a completely different entity institution, therefore, at the RS Ministry of Finance. I would like to ask the honourable MP Halilović if he gets this information, immediately I would like to tell you that it is absolutely incorrect. My question, my parliamentary question, I will move on to the parliamentary question, concerns therefore a recent decision which has been passed on to the very urgent workers of the Direct Taxation Administration – therefore, to the Customs Department in the field of border crossings Skelani, Ljuboviski bridge, Bratunac, Ljuboviski bridge, Šepak – which refers to the ban on crossing of cargo vehicles, and even in these cargo vehicles, vans, different vehicles that go and empty across these border crossings, which has greatly upsetd the citizens of these places. If we go from the local community of Skelani as part of the Srebrenica Municipality, the nearest international border crossing is 110km away from it, and there are no gas stations in Skelani and is closest to Srebrenica, just over 40km away and Bratunac is also so far away, this decision, which has been made, has upset a number of citizens and is not in line with BiH's commitment to free circulation of goods and services, primarily between neighbouring countries. 26 What is this decision and why is the institution responsible for indirect taxation and on the basis of whose proposal this decision has made to make the border crossing for international goods and passenger traffic in this part, therefore, only treats Karakaj in Mali Zvornik and immediately begins to apply this decision? It is known that this transition, from the Skelani-Bajina Basta crossings at which this decision provides exclusively for passenger traffic, is 110 km away from other international crossings for goods traffic over 50 km. This is how determining the crossings for goods traffic makes it very difficult for people in that area to do jobs and everyday life. It should be pointed out that Article 4. A border crossing agreement between BiH, Serbia-Montenegro provides for the possibility that temporary traffic of goods and people at those border crossings provided for international passenger traffic should be granted at the request of the competent authorities of the signatories. In view of the order of those crossing points, the envisaged international border crossings from the Skelani-Bajina Basta crossings, I ask the competent ministry of the Council of Ministers to deliver an urgent response: Why this crossing did not get an international character for goods traffic, and to take over all activities to amend Article 4. ... of that agreement. In this agreement, it is possible for border crossings, for example, such as Uvac, Ustibar, Metaljka and Deleuša to have a status so-called. ...the border crossing of the second category. At these crossings, therefore, the traffic of goods which are not subject to excise duties and which are not subject to inspection may be carried out. I see no reason why this same application did not take place...and the border crossings of Skelani – Bajina Basta, Bratunac – Ljuboviski Bridge and Šepak. Please let us get this question as soon as possible. I believe that this decision has made it impossible for citizens, first of all, to carry out basic life activities, which has not been the case so far. We were also required, so the signatories were obliged to inform the citizens of the entry into force of this decision in due time. She was urgently made, I got into the night between Saturday and Sunday on dozens of messages about this... a very hasty decision. I also think there was no reason to bring this kind of... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18850	Thank you. Dear Representative Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18851	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, offered what was happening and is still going on about the amendments and additions to the Customs Tariff Act in BiH, and the Excise and Customs Policy Act, I would like to point out a question or initiative to the Council of Ministers on the Law on an indirect taxation system in BiH. I draw attention to the following provisions applicable to amendments to the laws in the area of indirect taxes. 27 Article 4 of the Law regulates the responsibilities of the Directorate for indirect taxation, Article 14 regulates the duties of the Committee, and Article 14(2) states: The Committee shall be responsible for the launch of legal provisions relating to indirect taxation and their amendments, including legal regulations on tax rates and structures, if it considers it necessary, for the purpose of implementing this law. The Committee for its Work corresponds to the BiH Council of Ministers. Article 25 regulates the transfer of competences to the Administration, and Article 25's position (4) reads: On the date of entry into force of this law, the introduction of any indirect tax in BiH as well as the declaration or amendment of the legal provisions in indirect taxation by the Federation, the RS or the District must be approved by the Committee. The Committee must approve all discretionary decisions concerning exemptions from or the application of indirect tax rates and structures to be made under the laws of the Federation, RS or the District. These provisions, and in particular the provision regulated by Article 25, put the Committee in a superior position with regard to the BiH Parliament, and also slow down or even prevent any provisions in the field of amendments and addition of the Law on the indirect taxation system in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18852	I'm thinking whether it makes sense to warn this next one that the short questions, I mean, since you've previously... used the possibility of an explanation maximum. And here's what I appreciate is that they're not all, but the largest number is. Well, here I am asking. But... since I haven't interrupted anyone else, I won't interrupt these others, either, so... Next: Honorable representative Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18853	Here, I'll try to ask a short oral question, and I'll put it in writing. So the contribution is with the asked question. My question is addressed to the BiH Ministry of Justice, and it says: Why do the BiH courts recognise the judgments of the Trade Court in Belgrade when the conditions for the recognition of the rulings contained in a document called the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia on Legal Assistance published in the 'Official Messenger of BiH' were not met in 11.5. and the Law on the resolution of the conflict of the Law with the regulations of other SFRJ countries in which the Ministry of Justice gives an opinion on the fulfilment of the conditions of reciprocity? In fact, here's a concrete example I'm going to give with this question, where it turns out our citizens are legally unprotected. Because... the verdict of our courts is not recognised, at the Trade Court in Belgrade, and the reverse thing is quite different. And of course, here I want to repeat the official question that I asked when I commented on the answer to the parliamentary questions. And I would briefly like to comment on Mr. Sefer Halilović's question or discussion. Namely, to be clear, my son-in-law works in... It's a direct tax administration, but it stays with me. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18854	But the question wasn't asked to you, so don't even answer it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18855	Please, please, all I have to do is give up my son-in-law, because I acquired him after his employment at the IRS. Only if that's what you're suggesting, Mr. Halilović, that's different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18856	Okay. The next is the distinguished representative Snježana Rajilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18857	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we have recently witnessed the passing of laws, i.e. trying to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads, and we have said that it is necessary for this law to be implemented as soon as possible, that certain experts are required to educate people who take driving exams, etc. Now we're witnessing media...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18858	For a little bit of attention, here, while the distinguished representative raises the question, let's be collegiate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18859	Now we're...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18860	Dear Representative Genjac, please, I have to call you names like this now, I mean, here, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18861	...we are now witnessing that there are a lot of media reports about how these same instructors earn extra money on their textbooks, so, who are not lectured, who are not processed,...with their potential clients and, of course, earning double money. My question concerns the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and it says when will the Ministry of Transport and Communications publish the necessary literature that is necessary for passing driving tests under the new Law on Road Safety? If they are not able, then it is necessary to do so by the competent entity ministries. Thank you very much. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18862	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18863	Mr. Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18864	Here, until you ask a question, then you can answer it right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18865	I will respect what you said, but since there is a respectable composition here from the Council of Ministers, I believe we will get an answer to this question right now. The question is: What has the BiH Council of Ministers done and what actions and activities it intends to take in connection with the abuses in the CIPS in order to prevent further abuses in the procedure of issuing personal documents?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18866	Thank you. Hold on, Deputy Minister, there may still be questions so you can answer all the questions immediately. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18867	The SDP guys... so I say they announce me, and then let's just explain. My question concerns the large assets of BiH institutions. A parliamentary question to the BiH Council of Ministers, the chairman. I'm glad there's a Council of Ministers and a chairman. I've asked one question today, a conclusion has been adopted, and I want to explain it a little bit, though, do I think that this, along the European path, is the most important issue in the sense that it should be dealt with by the Council of Ministers. When will the Council of Ministers and the competent ministries, in accordance with the Law on Property of the Republic of BiH, which was adopted in 1994 and still in force, take away the assets of the former Communist Union that was illegally usurped and robbed by the SDP? Explanation: The public and citizens are well aware that the biggest robbery and the greatest kidnapping of state property was done by the SDP. It is a large property of the former Alliance of Communists, which the SDP illegally took over during its aggression against BiH. To be the biggest robbery of state assets directed by the SDP, it is seen from the Law on Property of the Republic of BiH, which was adopted in '94. A year. I've shared it with some MPs, who doesn't have it to come, is still in force. 30 I quote the law, says: The social resources of the former SFRY used by the former JNA, federal authorities and federal organisations, where the political parties located in the territory of the Republic of BiH are also the property of the Republic of BiH. Under the heading (1) of this Article, fixed and movable items, property rights, cash and claims shall be considered as fixed and movable assets and claims on the account of the RBiH SDK. This law... is still in force, so I rightly ask the question: On what legal act did SDP usurp and use former SDP's assets? In accordance with the Dayton Agreement, all regulations and other legal acts shall remain in force and, if not in accordance with the Constitution, until they are replaced by the regulations. This law is still in force and no other law has been passed. Therefore, if any of the assets of the former KKJ are registered to the SDP, it has been done illegally, and whoever did this has to answer, and the property as property should be returned to the BiH state plus the lease incomes the SDP illegally made, with tight interest. You had... to read in the media that... a robbery directed by the SDP, where it was said that the SDP had established informal rights to assets that weren't hers since '92. It has been leased for years, and in this way it illegally generates large revenues, and that it is known to the real owner of the property, which are BiH institutions. But up until a few months ago, no one from the BiH institutions has ever raised the issue. The time has finally come. Also, it is evident that the SDP wants... a resort in Neum, a former facility of the KCSBiH, to take a little bath – first, here to harass the citizens – to go a little rest and return, which is in the most attractive place along the coast. The SDP has so far included 5.5 million, while BiH institutions pay 20 million annually for their accommodation, all of them should be returned to BiH institutions and... with tight interest of the 5.5 million. The SDP is also held as owner, and the owner has no right to dispose, sell, give or rent, and they do so without anyone responding. In any case, the right to use construction... is illegally converted into the right of ownership of a group of citizens of the political party, and it is necessary to return property to the previous state. Since the SDP is known for its demagogue passwords and for God's sake that the government is doing nothing and they are right, because the government is really doing nothing, I call on the current government: the Council of Ministers, the Parliament of BiH, all of us to take away the robbed assets of the former SKJ and return it to the real owner, BiH, i.e. to the citizens of BiH. I think it's your duty, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, to enforce the laws of this country, to protect and strengthen state institutions, and by doing nothing so far at the return of looted property by SDP, you're weak, and you're strengthening a political option that is a brake of development, progress and a European path, and out of rage over the financial power that... with various resolutions, yogurt revolutions, trying to bring down a false elected power, that is serious, we are eyewitnesses every day, and it's just... the same financial powers and... funds. I, it is my duty... as a State MP to warn this Parliament and the authorities to sober up in time and solve this problem. Look at the environment of the former ex-Yugoslavia: Eastern European countries where communist regimes have collapsed, no property has been inherited by any party except the Federation, and that's why in the Federation it is the way it is, because this robbery... the largest in BiH's history is bigger than any criminal privatisation. Therefore, this property should be returned to the real owner, the BiH institutions, and the BiH institutions should have it, used in the interests of all citizens, i.e. to share it with 31 organisations, the fighting populations, the Shah associations, the families of pensioners, etc., not a group of citizens who terrorise then.... That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18868	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Novaković. Here you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18869	Mr. Chairman of the vjeće of Ministers, ministers, gentlemen, the chairman of Parliament and distinguished colleagues, I will take advantage of the foreign minister's presence here and I will ask him... one parliamentary question and it would be good if he could get an answer to this question today. If not, of course, then I expect a written answer. We know that in the last few months and here at Parliament, but I must say, through committees, we have been having a very lively debate on the rationalization of the diplomatic and consular network. Of course, one of the questions that kept the most attention busy is the question of shutting down... The General Consulate in Bon and the opening of the General Consulate in Frankfurt. We are also almost all aware that with a 3.5. so May 31st should have stopped, at least so defined by the decision,...the plan of activity, should have stopped the work of the General Consulate in Bon and started working in Frankfurt. My question – namely, according to the information I have – the General Consulate in Bon is closed,... some workers have been returned, some have been extended...to stay at the consulate, meaning that we are in Bono by 30.6. Also, according to the information I have, the General Consulate in Frankfurt has not been opened. And my question is: Why is the Plan of Activity not met at the closure of the General Consulate in Bon and the opening of the BiH General Consulate in Frankfurt, and when will this consulate come into work? What about the archive that's in the building of the former General Consulate in Bon and who's in charge of keeping her safe? What about the demands of the citizens who were admitted to that consulate and were not solved? Which workers were extended to stay at the consulate after the term defined by the decision and the closure plan and for what reason? I repeat, if I can't get an answer today, then I expect it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18870	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Matić. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18871	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected members and representatives of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests and representatives of the public media, my question concerns the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and I also use the opportunity to thank them for answering one of the questions asked earlier. Is the construction of a bridge on the Sava River as a merger point on Corridor Vc envisaged within the Svilaj – Odjak section? If it is not, when and how, by what means is it planned to build this bridge in partnership with the Republic of Croatia, in cooperation or on its own? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18872	Thank you. Dear Representative Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18873	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I will only direct two initiatives, believing that this will improve... the efficiency of this Parliament's work. First, I submit the initiative: instead of ad hoc commission appointment, under quotes, to the Administrative Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, as in all other parliaments, it remains in the environment. Another of my initiatives is that MPs cannot comment on the answers, because these are the answers of institutions and individuals, and no, they do not have to be at their request, but they can only ask an additional question in order to get a second answer, or clarification. Because otherwise this is how we become a debate club if we comment on why this is like this, this is the answer and why it isn't, which we agree with and what we disagree with. I think that in no home in the world, not in any parliament... there is no answer to the discussion, but can only be the MP to express that he agrees or disagrees, and when he disagrees, then he can ask an additional question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18874	We would like to remind the honourable representative that there is an ongoing procedure for amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure... You can direct the House of Representatives and all initiatives to our committee that works intensively on these issues. The next is distinguished representative Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18875	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen fellow guests, representatives of the Council of Ministers, I have two questions. The first is addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers, and it says: 33 What is the BiH Council of Ministers doing to combat the spread of brucellosis and eradication of this infectious disease, and to resuscitate the damage caused by brucellosis? I won't explain anything. I don't think there's any need. I expect an answer as soon as possible, because I think the situation on the ground is quite serious, especially in certain parts of BiH. I think the damage is already very large, they've taken great proportions. The second question, i.e. the initiative of the Council of Ministers and the professional services of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH: Why in the halls for plenary sessions of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Great Hall on the first floor and the White Hall where we sit and work and halls for the work of committees and working bodies, there are no properly set watches? I think that we, i.e. this is the only parliament, at least where I have been able to see that in the halls in which we are working, and the good part of our procedure in the work is also time-defined, from the duration of the debate, the replica, the answer to the question, etc. re-enactment, etc. and we often get here and argue whether and to what extent one of the participants in the debate has exceeded the time. I find it necessary to equip this building, so halls, and halls with adequate watches. Just for a reminder, one of the most beautiful buildings in the world, the Australian Parliament building, has more than a thousand watches. So one of the features of this beautiful building, or Parliament of Australia, is these very clocks. I think so. Parliament, the building of Parliament is also beautiful but, above all, because of the quality of doing the work in it and meeting all of us, I think it is necessary to equip it in an appropriate way for hours. This was also an initiative to do so as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18876	Thank you. I don't have any more logs, except one but...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18877	Here is the chairman, Mr. Lozančić, also has a parliamentary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18878	Thank you, Mr. Deputy. Here, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the Honorable Chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, I will take advantage of the occasion... that both the chairman of the Council of Ministers and one significant number of members of the Council of Ministers here to ask one question and, if possible, I would like the President of the Council of Ministers, or one of the relevant ministers to respond at the meeting today. According to the information I have, our Council of Ministers, with all the efforts it makes, is not enough to be able to carry out the obligations successfully, especially those that will take place for BiH after the expected signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. If 34 are my knowledge is correct,... I would like the chairman of the Council of Ministers to say whether or not they are,... then I ask: What exactly is the Council of Ministers doing to increase the capacity of the Council of Ministers and the accompanying services, so that BiH, in accordance with the obligations that will take place after the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, would ensure that all commitments taken by BiH are met in due time? And in that sense, the issue addressed here seems to me the most towards the foreign minister: Is the EU Mission's capacity to increase almost in Brussels, including personnel and space planned? Thank you very much. So, no more reports. I had reportedly given an immediate response to the respected Deputy Minister of Transport and the communication of Poljašević.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18879	The Honorable Speaker of Parliament and the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, has no honourable Parliament Rajilić, but because of the public and because of your questions, there were actually two questions, and that is: When will the bill on amendments and additions to the Transport Safety Act be found in this procedure? According to the plan and programme adopted by the Council of Ministers, it is 12 months this year. When it comes to this second part of the question, about education, about taking driver's exams, I have to say that I've also been informed in the public, or in the media, I've read this information about what kind of manuals appear. I must say that the Ministry of Communications and Transport is not responsible for this area, that according to legal acts, or regulations, it is arranged in such a way that entities, i.e. cantons and counties, i.e. the Ministry of Education, are therefore organised in a way that they think the driver's education should be done. So what's happening now is that it's happening on the Internet and everywhere, I think it's an illegal store and it's not good. And that education ministries, so entities, cantons and counties, should take certain activities to prevent it, that is, those manuals that will, therefore, be valid. I went out, too, but I heard there was one question about the bridge in Svilaj, so I have to say that this bridge in Svilaj was arranged between BiH and Croatia and the quantum point and that the bridge will work, so BiH and Croatia will be joint initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18880	I would like to thank the esteemed Deputy Minister. Honorable Council of Ministers Chairman Mr Nikola Špirić. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18881	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished ministers, guests, media representatives, has two questions I would like to answer. The first question was: What is going on and is there relevant information regarding abuses of the issue and counterfeiting of documents? You know that this activity is not yet complete, that the investigation is ongoing. I have asked the competent addresses to inform me when the process is over: what they intend to do or what is being done and Parliament will be informed in this regard. That thing has two sides of medals like any other. First, it's bad that this is happening, and secondly, it's good that there are institutions that see phenomena that are willing to prosecute and punish those who have committed, therefore, abuse of documents. And it's one of the messages that institutions in BiH grow to that extent to be able to process and prosecute. And it's bad, of course, that it happens. About scope, character – when the investigation process is completed, because everything else would be prejudicial and would be subject to different speculations, which is not, which is not the goal. The Honorable Chairman asked: Does the Council of Ministers have the capacity to bring challenges to the institutions of the government, or to the Council of Ministers concerning the signing of the Agreement on the Euro-Atlantic Integration of our country? I must be pleased to say that this is the Council of Ministers, and I am therefore sorry that there is not enough strength within BiH to promote what is our country's success, within BiH and outside BiH. I'm sorry that – but it's good at least somewhere that this is happening – that our progress is more visible outside BiH, which... The Security Council both the UN and Brussels appreciates progress and progress, and we are the only ones who are the least working to promote what is progress. Of course, as we will, therefore, move on the Euro-Atlantic road to develop our country's institutional capacities, and I don't think there will be any problems. I think we must work to strengthen internal communication in BiH, to understand better, because when there is political will, institutions are developing. We meet these obligations, and that is why I call on us to work on building this internal communication, to understand that the European process and that the European future is the property of all of us and all levels of government. Sometimes, when we move into this process, there was resistance by entities, now that entities show willingness to participate, then there is resistance by the state, but that is, that is why I call on us to work on the quality of these communications and to be the property of all of us and all the levels of government. I am convinced, therefore, that we will develop the necessary capacities. The Council of Ministers runs a proactive policy on addressing all challenges. We have 30 requests from the European Commission and the first progress report will be in November. It also coincides with a report that will be submitted by the High Representative to the Security Council in November. We must do everything possible to make these two reports report on progress, further progress in BiH. There are things we have solved, there are things that are in the process of resolving, I am convinced that we will have positive reports, but please, everyone in BiH to create a climate of success in this country, to devote ourselves to BiH's success on its Euro-Atlantic path. I don't think that the development of institutional capacities will be a problem, but we must work, therefore, to create an additional political will to speed up the processes. 36 We have, I don't know, of course it's very difficult, it's a lot of challenges, but I think the Council of Ministers has offered in these first five months exactly those laws that are said to be progressing in BiH. Probably not enough, but I think that if we have a political climate created that the time ahead will be a time that is in the interest of all, in the interest of the citizens of BiH. I mean, I'm willing to work on that road, not saving time. And I want to tell you that the way I want to work is that when unnecessary hysterias are created that we need to get the temperature back to work level and meet our... our obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18882	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Next.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18883	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, one more part of the answer. I accidentally, so I went over it, forgot it. This, therefore, rise and signing of the Agreement will require, therefore, stronger support for our missions outside. It is almost certain that the current missions, both in New York and Geneva and in Vienna, and in Brussels, are not humanised to be able to follow these challenges ahead of BiH. In a conversation with Minister Alkalaj, a change of systemization is being prepared. So there is agreement to strengthen the personnel mission. It's illogical actually, and it's very difficult for these people, I understand them, that our mission, our mission in New York, is four people, I don't know if there's any more, I think, four with a driver, four diplomats and a driver. I think the lineup, which is in Brussels, needs to be strengthened, but here comes the change of systemization, will have my support. So we create these conditions and capacities, in line with the material resources and with the needs that are therefore ahead of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18884	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. We're closing the second item of the agenda. We're going to the third item of the agenda, to the second point, sorry, I hurried. Second item of the agenda: Ad. 2. Confirmation of the BiH Council of Ministers' Decision on discharge: - Sven Alkalaj, Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Council of Ministers, - Senad Šepić, Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs at the Council of Ministers - Igor Crnadko, Deputy Minister of Defence for Politics and Planning at Council of Ministers 37 You, ladies and gentlemen, have received a decision from the Council of Ministers' Chairmans on the replacement of ministers and deputy ministers mentioned in this point in the light of the Council of Ministers' decision. Decisions by the Central Election Commission were also submitted to the chairman of the Council of Ministers for Decision-Making. In accordance with the rules in force, the House of Representatives shall consider the decision of the Chair of the Council of Ministers to confirm. I'm opening a debate. Does the chairman of the Council of Ministers want to explain the decision? Please, the word has been given by the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Dr Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18886	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed MPs, ministers, guests, namely, I would like to give an introductory explanation because, for my obligations, today we have guests of the European Commission's Enlargement Director, I have obligations and talks and I will not be able to remain at the end of this agenda, I ask for your understanding. That's why you'll be able to make a decision. Whatever decision it is, I respect it. But what I want to say about my request, you know when it came to the confirmation of this Council of Ministers that in 7.2.2008 CEC informed me as a mandate that in the process of candidates for Ministers and Deputy Ministers in the Council of Ministers, Mr Sven Alkalaj, Igor Crnadko and Senad Šepić, conclusions were reached on the initiation of the procedure due to a reasonable suspicion that they had violated the provisions of the Law on conflict of interest in BiH authorities. That's why we're also on the CEC alert, so I've informed the commission that's been doing a background check on candidates for ministers and deputy ministers. We then received confirmation of their appointment and they are members, so ministers and deputy ministers. After that, it happened that the CEC established a conflict of interest and informed me of it as chairman and I, on the basis of Article 15. The law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, decided to initiate the procedure for the resolution of Foreign Minister Sven Alkalaj, Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs Senad Šepić and Deputy Defence Minister for Politics and Planning of Mr Igor Crnadko. I'm sorry I got into a situation to get it started. Namely, at this time when it is necessary to do everything to show the Council of Ministers full efficiency, many have interpreted that I could and could not, that I had and did not have to, but I think we are in a situation where we have to create credible institutions on the challenges that lie ahead of us. So it was my dilemma, and I could do it under Article 15, but I would lose credibility to speak to the public because every time they could ask these questions, and I appreciated, therefore, that it was best for me to address the Parliament that adopted this law and interpret it. I did not allow myself the luxury of interpreting the Law of Conflict of Interest, but simply could not go beyond the decision of the CEC, which...has established a conflict, established a conflict of interest. So the reasons for this decision are contained in the BiH CEC decisions delivered to my cabinet on 30 April. In CEC decisions: Sven Alkalaj, Foreign Minister Senad Šepić, Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs and Igor Crnadk, Deputy Minister of 38 Defence, a sanction of incompetence for running for any direct or indirect elected post over a period of four years after the violation was committed. Given that the CEC found those persons to have committed an infringement of the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions, and gave the sanctions listed above, it implies that it is necessary to initiate a procedure for the resolution of these persons. Since the CEC's decisions are final in the legal process and cannot be declared a complaint, they do not, therefore, delay the execution, I decided to act under Article 15(1) of the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, under which the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers can initiate a procedure for the replacement of ministers and deputy ministers. So I ask you today to consider this initiative and make a decision. I think we're talking about BiH today, and I think in this country, because we intend to build it as a legal state, there can't be people who are outside or above the law. I note again, I am not happy that I have been given the opportunity to act in this way, but I also want to say that I am in my intention, before I have submitted this request, I have informed both the ministers and the deputy and the management of Parliament and the individual club presidents. I asked for advice on what they would do if they were me. I got the answer: we'd respect the law. I, by respecting the law, have addressed this home and your position will be binding, binding on the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers. Once again, I want to say I regret being brought on such an opportunity. Perhaps we could have avoided this when we appointed the Council of Ministers but I understand you, and the parliamentary commission that expected the Election Commission not to impose sanctions on conflicts of interest, but I also want to respect the views of the Election Commission which also has an obligation to act in accordance with the law. And this is actually a kind of turning point for all of us in BiH. Are we going to build it as a legal state or are we going to interpret the laws one way or another? I did not take the right to interpret the laws but followed the provisions of the Council of Ministers Act. Parliament is the one who passed the laws and has the right to interpret them. Thank you very much. Once again, my apologies for not being able to stay the rest. I ask you to understand because I have these activities regarding the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18887	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Correction of the incorrect allegation: the esteemed First Vice-President Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18888	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I also express regret that I was forced to step forward in this way. In fact, it is true that Mr. Chairman has been consulting with the College of the House of Representatives, but not in a way that he has obtained an opinion on what we think we should do, but that man has informed us that he intends to make that decision, and that he asked us, as far as I'm concerned, I would suggest that he not do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18889	Thank you. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18890	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18891	Replic or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18892	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18893	Question? How do we get him? Come on, question: Honorable representative Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18894	Let it be a false allegation, chairing, since the election commission's decision, as the chairman said, is a ban on running. Does this mean that someone's term of office is lifted immediately after this election committee's decision is announced? I mean, I see it differently.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18895	Honorable Council of Ministers Chairman Dr Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18896	In fact, it's a good question, and that's my dilemma at a time when it takes full capacity, when it takes the credibility of this country and the ministries, if someone is banned from running for the next four years. So, if the CEC! So it's a moral story now. So we can look for different legal nuances. But if the CEC forbids anyone to run, what credibility does it have to function? So these are my dilemmas. And that's why my address to Parliament is. So I solved the dilemma, followed the law. Parliament can look for different types of exits and that's your right. But I beg you, I don't know what moral right I'd have to stand before Parliament, and if I'd done it past the law. I beg you, so make any decision you want. You can open a debate about the chairman instead... and that's not where I'm running. So, but this is, this is the time and I say sorry. I'm not going to say a bad word about my colleagues. It's just a matter of law enforcement and respect for decisions, nothing else. There were different stories. I'm sorry, I didn't want to be a part of those stories. I've avoided commenting on them publicly, and I won't comment on them. So here we are in front of a dilemma. Are we going to build our country as a rule of law or are we always going to look for a way out? Shall we send a message that the laws apply to everything other than the Minister? And it's a dilemma. But that dilemma should be resolved by Parliament, not by the chairman... That was a heavy burden for an individual. I said I could, it was, it was, it was... where the chairman says he can, and he doesn't have to. But that didn't have to be the burden that the chairman was supposed to bear, if every time anyone came to mind, you could ask the media and Parliament. It was a heavy dilemma. I beg you to understand me. I don't insist you bring it. So, you'll make any decision you want. So this is my address to Parliament to help me. 40 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18897	Thank you. The next one was registered for the debate, the esteemed representative Bakir Izetbegović, and the esteemed representative Rafat Dolić, so the esteemed representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, we will see further. Dear Representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18898	Normally, we're going to build a... rule of law and we're going to work under the law, that no one is an exception, not ministers, not MPs, etc. It's the only way to build a country thoroughly. The problem, however, is that we are not sure. Here, first of all, it's not CEC safe... in my position, because I'm going to take an example from Mr. Šepić. We've had a discussion three times. The CEC, in its first examination of the candidate for the Council of Ministers, conducted proceedings in February 2007 on the case of Šepić and after the facts found, decided that there was no conflict of interest: the famous case... of the girl, V.D. Director of the municipal municipal company in Travnik. So in February 2008, a re-check of candidates for appointment to the Council of Ministers was re-enacted, and the CEC issued its approval in March for appointment, with the same facts as in February last year. They're not sure. How can I be sure? I'm an architect, not a lawyer. How can I cut that? In April 2008, the same case, the same facts, the same actors, all the same, the same position as before, the CIK made, this time, the opposite decision to those two earlier ones, and by revote 4:3 and to impose sanctions. I'm not sure. So, the court will... judge how things really stand. I think... the Prime Minister has been a little hasty. He could have made that decision but he didn't have to. I think it'd be better if he waited. About the whole situation, I'm just not sure, I'm just sure if we support this and if we support shifts that we're gonna have one mole, one piece of Council of Ministers and you won't be able to work at full capacity and you'll have a problem. So I suggest that, for now, we reject this proposal from the prime minister, that we wait for the court's decision, and then we reconsider the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18899	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18900	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, this issue and a request to resolve members of the Council of Ministers, in any case, has recently occupied the public's attention in BiH and initiated various debates. The issue of resolving members of the Council of Ministers, a member of Foreign Minister Sven Alkalaj's Council of Ministers, Deputy Civil Affairs Minister Senad Šepić, BiH Deputy Defence Minister Igor Crnadko, certainly 41 have their moral, legal and political dimension at the moment. Each of these dimensions could be widely explained, denied or argued. I do not have the ambition to do this because I have not voted in favour of this Council of Ministers, but I cannot also conclude that such a request for a resolution is, first of all, a picture and an opportunity for relations in the parliamentary majority. When I say so, I mean the fact that these restrictions were known even before the public appointment of these people, that the request for a resolution came expressly, even before the end of the appeal procedure in this part of the court, without talking about relations in the Council of Ministers and several initiatives to replace Minister Alkalaj. The impression is that the replacement of Minister Alkalaj is in the first place here, and Deputy Ministers Šepić and Crnadak turn out to be some collateral damage, not to be offended by this finding. What is imposed in a specific request for resolution is several questions through which answers are received on the background of such a request. First, how is it possible that the CEC on two occasions gives consent to the appointment of these people, even though it already had the same information on the basis of which it has now decided on the existence of conflicts of interest and sanctions? These circumstances were also warned by members of the Committee for the Election of the Council of Ministers, including myself... involved in this. The second question is: How come all of a sudden so many expeditions and rushes in the shift and filing requests for Mr Alkalaj, Šepić and Crnadko's resolution? I think we should have waited for this court and the court's epilogue of this decision. And the third question: Is it appropriate, therefore, that someone should be replaced and resolved in this way, despite the fact that the appeal procedure, in a legal sense, is not completed and that someone can be replaced today, and tomorrow to prove... that he is innocent. For these questions and the fact that I have not voted to appoint this Council of Ministers, I will refrain from voting and leave this issue, by logic, to be determined by the parliamentary majority, because it is a matter of their relations. To be honest, with full respect for the Law of Conflict of Interest, I think the chairman of the Council of Ministers has far more reasons for the replacements of ministers and their deputies because of their unhappiness, obstructions. And secondly, even if that had happened in one case, I would have understood this request from the chairman of the Council of Ministers for the discharge of these ministers and deputies. Unfortunately, the Council of Ministers instead of acting as BiH government, which is essentially, it acts as a debate political club of six parties, divided into three national sections, and practically acts as an unsettled radio that is interesting to listen to, and tragically confronting the fact that such a team is run by the highest executive body of the state. For that reason, I will refrain from participating in such performances. Of course, I'd like to hear about all of this to the CEC gentlemen and gentlemen specifically referred to by this... request for resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18901	We have a request from the chairman. Of course, it's your right to the Rules of Procedure. 42 here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18902	I won't answer again, I won't be, I won't be able to, but I'm begging you. I said, you can talk...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18903	It's not forbidden.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18904	...the story can turn to me too, I'm not running away from it, Mr. Dolić. To be an MP and act like one, I won't influence. So, you can do whatever you want, but at least you know the public, you have to explain that the court dispute and the administrative dispute are not the same. You have an Electoral Commission. You can ask her a question today. Not to me, I've told the legal basis for my behavior is the election commission's decision which is definitive. The election committee informed Parliament that it was in charge of the procedure when we elected the council. The parliamentary commission confirmed it, okay. But we got it, so I'm like the chairman of the election commission's decision not to delay the execution. And the ministers can also lead the deputy administrative dispute. And management of the dispute means they won't get into the metrics. I'm asking today if, here's whatever decision there is to court, does that mean you're going to... CEC, if it's negative, will this election commission be wiped out? That's the real question. So we need to talk real. It's not me, I'm talking again, I'm not happy and I didn't hurry, but I wanted us not to make a political mud out of which someone's going to learn something like this or something like that. I don't have a problem, let me tell you right now, with the ministers. And this Council of Ministers, Mr Dolić, no matter what you think, has led BiH to sign the agreement... and this Council of Ministers is working to become a member of the World Trade Organisation, and this Council of Ministers has brought the Secretary-General for Regional Co-operation here, and this Council of Ministers has made us a member of the UN Human Rights. So, come on, you won't get anything if you say so. I want to discuss it realistically. Say, there's no problem whatever you think. But you don't think – I apologize to my colleague Belkić – I didn't say I got my consent from the College. You acted well, I didn't get consent from the College, but I informed, therefore, about the move. And now, you, as Parliament today, will say, not me, so today Parliament will make a decision and Rifat Dolić within that Parliament. And after the court's decision, we'll meet again here in Parliament. I'll be here again or not, but you'll still have a chance to face it all again. But this is about the real position we... are in. And I'm not glad we're in that position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18905	Mr. Kalabić. It's a replica, isn't it? 43
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18906	Well, it is, before the discussion, very brief, given that this debate can go any way. It's not questionable since the topic is broad, but I think we should get it back to the position of the relationship to the law. Everyone has the right to have a personal relationship with the Council of Ministers or to an individual member and whether or not he chose him, whether or not he chose him. And here fellow Dolić, when he spoke, he ignored the fact that he must show his attitude to the position of the law here. The law that we've passed and to whom we can also have this or that kind of relationship but that's... the essence of the story where we're supposed to give answers today. And I would remind all those to whom the law was applied, if there were no reaction to one number of BiH officials, this law was applied to council members by the municipalities, I don't know exactly how much but there was no reaction under the same law. So, the bottom line is that we show today where we are when he doesn't apply to senior officials.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18907	Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović. Get Momčilo Novaković ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18908	It's my turn, and Šefik, I think he was behind me... First, allow us to make a brief statement on behalf of the Party for BiH Club, but before that, in fact, to refer... our position in just one part of the statement and discussion of the chairman of the Council of Ministers set out in the form of a dilemma: are we going to build a legal state or not? And here's to mention just that we are fully standing, of course, on the importance and specific weight and respect of the law, building institutions, i.e. whether, form and rule of law, as we normally say. I, from that position, fully understand the Council of Ministers chairman that he has brought his request into this context, but I do not, of course, justify it. Because if, from that justification, we observe from that angle his specific request, then we can ask if anyone has the right to deny anyone the right to the justice process. And in that sense, we appreciate that this move is heightened. The more the Court of Justice's Board of Appeal still does not show itself in the process in a concrete case. It is also true that the decision does not delay the execution but it is also true that the decision applies to the ban on running. We're not in that phase. So we're not running anyone in this status right now, or... in spirit and decisions made. But I would like to mention that the good part of the arguments it gives us for the right, especially in the process of proving justice, is that the same body that... issued this decision, or manifested itself, or the Electoral Commission, that we should not forget, has given consent under unchanged circumstances. And in that sense, we appreciate that this decision, or the request of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, has been hastened and with one more note, if there is any purpose to point out. Of course, the Party for BiH Club is exactly for the rule of law but in all its segments and perhaps unusual but unfortunately. Here, both for this point and for the occasion and for the presence and colleagues to whom, among other things, this request by the chairman-in-Office of the Minister, please allow me, in the name of the Party for BiH, to express regret over the tragic events in the family. Thank you. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18909	poslanik Novaković. Let MP Džaferović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18910	The Honorable Chairman, and I will indeed try to be as brief as possible. I will not, of course, speak, try not to speak outside... of this Decision on resolution, so I will not talk about the comments of the SDS Club on the work and of some decisions of this ministry that I have talked a lot about when we talked about rationalising the DKP network, although I personally think that the minister has also found himself in a situation which has been designed by others and not by him. So, which was projected not in the ministry but in the BiH presidency. So I'm really not going to talk about these issues today, but I have a few words to say. In fact, if it weren't for the law, this would probably be a parliamentary majority issue, and probably, I who didn't vote for this Council of Ministers wouldn't have any moral right to discuss this, but, since it's the law, then that fact alone gives us the right, whether or not to vote for this Council of Ministers' assembly, whether or not part of the parliamentary majority, to comment on this issue. Namely, I consider the move of the chairman of the Council of Ministers to be a bold move. Why brave and in what way brave? Well, you see, when this Council of Ministers was elected and there were some debates, we heard it in the commission itself, etc. and then the chairman went with this move, so obviously without consulting within the parliamentary majority and without providing the majority for this move. So, the chairman of the Council of Ministers has – now for some reason – taken a move in order to comply with the law, while, of course, risking that move or that decision, which he proposed to his parliamentary majority, was not accepted by the same parliamentary majority. That is another reason why I believe this is a bold move, because after this chair of the Council of Ministers, unless his decision is taken, a logical question of his way of working is raised, meaning within the Council of Ministers or, behold, with ministers and deputy ministers whose shift he proposed. So, I think we should welcome this intention to respect the law and, therefore, I find the question here amazing: Was the chairman supposed to respect the law? And there were questions like that. Or did the chairman rush in respect of the law? Be careful if anyone hastened to obey the law! I mean, really, some findings don't stand here. Of course, the CEC's solution isn't to accept a solution,... whose name stands there, ceases its function, means. And there is no reason for these people who will not support such a decision, and for all of us, it depends on who will support it, who will not, to seek other reasons. Enough to say that the parliamentary majority will be questioned if the chairman's decision is respected. It is a fair relationship both with Parliament and with citizens. So there will be no parliamentary majority, we will have the Council of Ministers in crisis. And this decision, for those reasons, will not be accepted, not because it is discriminatory, is it, okay, is it wrong, whether the CEC has done it right, is not, what the court will say, etc. I think this relationship is much fairer on the issue and he's on the verge of agreements on the Council of Ministers' composition from a few months ago. Because even then the chairman and some, some parties in the parliamentary majority spoke very strongly about some who later supported it. So nothing new happened. We've continued to work the way it looks, we have to work at this point. 45 Of course, these great achievements of this Council of Ministers, which he spoke of as chairman, I would say, above all, that the result of the circumstances is to a significant extent, in which, of course, in no way do I wish to demean what is due to the Council of Ministers in any way. But we have to be aware that the very different conditions were when this Council of Ministers took over this job and that, later on, many things went in some other direction, so here, therefore, by not wanting to in any way belittle anything that has really been done, I mean that all these successes, in part, are the result of the circumstances that the Council of Ministers used and, of course, it is part of the ability of this Council of Ministers. ... the parties, therefore, although we have not voted in favour of this Council of Ministers, we have a very clear view of the Council of Ministers' decision and we believe that we should all discuss this matter extremely honestly. I also think it would be a good idea not to go into a re-crisis, that indeed, before any vote, or a statement, the parties to the parliamentary majority try to find a solution to this issue. If nothing, that we are not making a new... political crowd and new resignations which, after all, will be reemerged by the same Council of Ministers and the same parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18911	Ambassador Džaferović. Let MP Križanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18912	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this issue we are currently discussing has its own formal and, I would say, has its own real, is the essential side and I would try a few sentences, very briefly, to elaborate and to say what my position on this issue is. We have so far had many discussions in the BiH Parliament on the Law of Conflict of Interest and there is not one of us who has so far spoken of the current Law of Conflict of Interest in such a way that it is a law that adequately regulates the problem it regulates in our Bosnian-Herzegovina society. All of us, of course, have... made critical reference to that law but it certainly is not a reason, nor must there be a reason that the law is not respected. The law as it is, it must be respected, so I agree with it or disagree with it until we, and we are here in Parliament who are in charge, do not change that law. During that time, life flows and certain things happen under this applicable law, and that is the essence. And when, let's say, this parliament requires a few of us to, together with the Election Commission and the Council of Ministers or ministers, make one text that would be a little more appropriate and we do it and come here to Parliament with that text, then he experiences the fate he experienced this morning. So the Law of Conflict falls... of Interest, that is, on amendments and additions to the Law of Conflict of Interest. I think two things here, in my opinion, could be interlinked, and that's what worries me in this situation. The law on conflict of interest, as it is, says that if the Election Commission determines a conflict of interest, so if it is a directly elected official, it, in addition to sanctions and a ban on running, can say on the basis of the Electoral Law, not on the basis of the Law of Conflict of Interest, and a measure of termination of office. It is a matter of councilmen, councilmen, MPs, members of 46 of the presidency, so all those directly elected in the elections and the Election Commission acted in such situations. When it comes to the executive power in BiH, that is, when it comes to the Council of Ministers, the Election Commission of course has no mandate to take away the current or valid function and the Election Commission has not done so in this case, it has not done so, but has issued a ban on running and fine, as far as I know... but has not denied the current mandate. Because under the Law of Conflict of Interest, the Election Commission, when it comes to executive power, has no right to do so. Is it okay or is it wrong, is it okay that under the Electoral Law, as far as MPs are concerned, there is such a possibility, under the Council of Ministers and Ministries Act, there is no such possibility when the executive authority is concerned, we wrote in our report here and pointed out the need for the law... to change. It is clear from this that the chairman of the Council of Ministers had no legal obligation to do what he did. He did this based on his own judgment, and now that's the thing we need to talk about. So that's the point we need to talk about now. Today, Parliament, unless it accepts the request of President Špirić, will act in accordance with the law. Also, and if he accepts it, he'll act in accordance with the law, because our laws are what they are, and I think we're here, in this room, actually the most responsible for this situation that we have when it's legitimate, on these issues, on stage. And again, I return to this morning's text of a law that is completely undeniable between us here, which fell in parliamentary procedure and which could, in a certain way, help solve this situation. For example, we were supposed to declare a solution this morning, and it's an indisputable matter for us here that, for example, relatives in the case do not affect the conflict of interest of the elected official. We have one case, of these three cases here, which is just like that. Or we have a situation that one of the people killed a father who is concerned about this conflict of interest. Let's talk a little bit, so now, and in a situation where there is no legal obligation, so there is no legal obligation of the chairman of the Council of Ministers to act in the way that it... acts. hajati's talk: in a situation where there is no legal obligation to act the way the Council of Ministers chaired it, what will we get if we accept this decision? Are we going to get a Council of Ministers crisis, are we going to get a failure of the foreign ministry at a time when the country should go faster on the road to the EU? If we have a situation here that one of these people is a serious criminal, whether it's corrupt or not, whether it's touched the Law on conflict of interest or whether it's proposed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers or not, we, as Parliament, should come in and discuss this matter. Are there today elected officials in BiH who are making much more serious injuries than the Electoral Commission has established, and they are not being debated at all in the BiH Parliament. I repeat, I am only saying this because under the existing law there was no obligation to do this and what, if Parliament does not accept this, even if it does, it will act by law in both cases. So again, the law must be respected. I, when I weigh all this together, when I weigh it all together, not to add a question to the BiH Court's decision at all, what will happen? This is just because there is no appeal to the election commission's decision. She's a law-abiding woman. There is only a lawsuit in the administrative dispute against the BiH Court. The amendments to the law provided for an appeal, because if the law had been passed today, then there would be an opportunity to file a complaint. The decision would not be final and would have to await the BiH Court's position. But there's 47 here's another way. What happens if in a month or two the court does otherwise? We don't know what the court will do. And we are the reasons for the foreign minister's shift – so I'm saying here, so I think that here is the essence of the foreign minister, let two of my friends not be angry that I'm talking like this – to change and move away from position and from function. Is there anything, is there anything that this minister has to do with what, let's say, is essential and important to this country? So let's talk about it, see if he's up to it or not. But knowing the reason for the shift in the situation, I repeat, for the fourth time, the fifth time when there's no obligation to do so, just for this reason, I think, I don't think it's okay. And I had a need to say this and, however I handle it, I think it's better for this country that the decision of the chairman of the Council of Ministers is not accepted. And for these reasons, I will not support this decision and I advise all of us to move forward as soon as possible to create a normal conflict of interest law. I spoke of it, I am sorry that these few steps of improvement were not adopted in the BiH Parliament this morning. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18913	Thank you. The next one is the honourable representative Križanović for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18914	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, and I will say something very briefly about what we are discussing today. First of all, let's find out two facts. The first is that we have a very bad Law on conflict of interest. We tried to fix it today, so we failed again. The second is the fact that the BiH institution, for the application of this law, has found that the minister and two deputy ministers in the Council of Ministers are in conflict of interest, in line with this law. You see, thanks to certain introductions where there were little words here, we as a House are now in a very ungrateful position to deny what is the applicable law, however bad it is, or deny even the decision of one of our institutions. Neither one of us is well, and I think that this home is again in position, neither guilty nor obliged, to deal with the consequences of someone's poor work ahead of us. You see, when you take a period from the appointment of the Council of Ministers from the beginning of 2007, so a year and a half ago, and re-nouncing it after the resignations, four months ago, you see that nothing new has happened in connection with the aforementioned gentleman in conflict of interest. The malignancies can draw from this conclusion that our CEC is not an independent body, you know, when it comes to the implementation of this law, that it works under certain political or institutional pressures, when needed. Because what was new and what was the problem with this conflict of interest being established a year and a half ago. Come on, if it wasn't a year and a half ago, but it wasn't four months ago. 48 You see, so what's for us is science and instruction, and we've witnessed it many times, we're actually guilty again. We're making bad laws, we're too blessed with the institutions that we're putting in place, here I mean the Council of Ministers and the Election Commission, and then as a consequence of these bad relationships or work that we're dealing with these consequences here. That, gentlemen, is masochism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18915	I thank the esteemed representative Križanović. The next is a respected representative: the second vice-president, Dr. Milorad Živković. ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You're registered next.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18917	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, we also had a situation that the CEC banned a councilman from the Brcko Assembly from running. At an annual level of 500 marks, the man crossed the upper limit that he was able to deliver bread with a health care facility. And he gave all his sheets and accessories to the MP for charity, over 100,000 marks. And, such a man, the Electoral Commission changed, because she blindly adhered to the law and stated that for 500 marks the man was removed. Niko of us have responded, and now the biggest problem is the ministers. No Niko here will say that only MPs can be taken away from office immediately and that MPs can be banned from a four-year-old appearance at the same time and that there is no need for this parliament to be declared, but to be resolved by automation. We have humiliated this Parliament and the MPs and its place in society so much that we must not talk about it, because the people will come again and say, you know, these MPs are giving themselves privileges again. It's a shame for each of us as MPs that we can't say anything about it. This law has been passed by the international community, here in BiH. And no one in the international community is going to say anything about this law that's so bad that we can't even fix it. And there is no role of the international community in telling us now - why this is happening here in BiH. And how... here we can discuss both the law and the implementation and compliance of this law, the role of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who, in my opinion, made a mistake in the steps. He could, if something was not clear in the law... in Article 15 but also in the Law of Conflict of Interest, ask, to determine a certain body, here, and this Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. A constitutional commission that knows, which interprets the law, to say what's wrong with it. But so you can see the role of the CEC in all of this. Why is that right now, and this law, as far as we know, has been in force for a long time! And I have to say that today's... vote, when we discussed the Law of Conflict of Interest, didn't go out of our simple relationship, and that's the internal solution to our relationship 49 here. There was a mistake that could... then be abused. For this reason, the law has not passed, which does not mean that what we have agreed on on the Interresor Working Group, without what the Constitutional Commission adopted, cannot be adopted immediately next week by emergency procedure and that an appeal can be made to what the commission has done. That it means making two degrees of this procedure, and I think that's what we should do. But we must also, when we talk about law enforcement and compliance, no matter what it is, determine ourselves and determine ourselves according to the law. We in Parliament very often... are being brought before the final act. This isn't the first time. That's how it was before the law reform... about the police, that's what it was like to say, in front of the budget and some other parts. And we're the ones who pull, let's say, fried or hot chestnuts out of the fire. This parliament should find enough wisdom to, especially before signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, here in BiH does not cause any other crisis and that, when that signature, if Bog did, this 16th month, we should then see how we can get out of this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18918	Thank you, Mr. Živković. The next is a respected representative, Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18919	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, you see, we're back in a very strange situation and so we're not discussing this for the first time. The first time we discussed it was when we re-elected this Council of Ministers and then we had the exact same dilemma. What I'm going to do as a... basic question is this. The CEC did not make a single new argument from those we had when we re-elected this Council of Ministers. This then points to the fact that the CEC has been subjected to various political pressures and blackmails to make such a decision. So if he gave us the green light two months ago so we could choose and we did it, and now he has not made a single new argument that could support their opinion, then that points to that fact. From that point of view, we now need to see what that is about. It's obvious that we have one, I'd say, barging law, which then allows one such significant institution as the CIP that has great powers, whose decisions are executive, to be brought into such a situation where things can be interpreted one way or another. And then, if the arguments of pressure are stronger, then the same thing can be interpreted in another way. From that point of view, I... use this opportunity to ask MPs to take the issue of the Law of Conflict of Interest permanently seriously, although it is necessary to schedule a very fast special session of this house at which a completely new one will be considered, what counterpart Živković says - we have got a law that is not possible to fix. So, a completely new, thoroughly different Law on conflict of interest. If we're able to do this very soon, I'll also make a personal contribution to it. Here we are three witnesses, colleagues Džaferović, Raguž and I, as the issue has been arranged in one of the leading countries of the European... Union, it is in Germany. When we visited there, we had 50 opportunities to see that ministers could be in state-owned enterprises and that it was desirable from the point of view of direct control and impact on the business of these state-owned enterprises. After that we were also in Croatia where absolutely, not to mention now how, absolutely different this issue... was resolved. We bring ourselves to the absurdity that a girl can bring, because in some company, it doesn't matter now which level, in some local community, can question a young guy's career or because he's a young guy, whether he's young or old, it doesn't matter whether he's old or young, I'm talking about a specific case here,...maltene and his acquaintances question that I can't participate in anything. So we have an absurd law that needs to be changed urgently. From that point of view, maybe it's a good thing that the chairman of the Council of Ministers raised this issue and put us once again in front of one big dilemma to really consider whether we're going to support something that we haven't once concluded and realized that... it's very absurd. So, from that point of view, I say, I support that he launched this initiative, because he didn't want to give himself the right to interpret whether this initiative should have been launched by Article 15 or not. Parliament is the one to interpret this law. I must say that I am fully in agreement with my colleague Džaferović, when he says that: and if we accept the initiative of the Council of Ministers, we will respect the law, but, and if we do not accept it, we will also respect the law. There's something here that, come on, is called a moral question, what Mr. Špirić would discuss and if we had the law right. Indeed, I would also take care of that moral issue. If there is a ban on running, then whatever name it excludes the possibility of performing a further function on which these two are to be taken into account. But since we have the law we have, I'd say we have the law of immorality. On immoral law to build morality, I don't think it's correct. And that's an essential question. With all due respect here are all three, now that I'm speaking very specifically, here the question of the minister is something different from the question of these two deputies. I would like to remind you that, is the candidate of the party I belong to, for similar reasons as it is now established with Minister Alkalaj, that he is forbidden to run and not elected, and that he is forbidden to run and future etc. And here's a similar case that's not the same, but it's similar, and it was treated differently in the election. So the election was supposed to look at it. Now, when we've crossed all of this, two months behind, without any new arguments, it's my appeal that as soon as we get to this house with a brand new Law of Conflict of Interest and then strictly adhere to this law, to help this Central Election Commission not come and to the dilemma of whether this is like this, or how it interprets, how this member treats, or how it treats that member. Someone else said, and that's a fact, now that they've searched all those who perform various executive functions in BiH, I'm convinced, that hundreds of... would find conflicts of interest such as these two conflicts of interest of the deputy ministers, hundreds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18920	Thank you. One small replica: the esteemed representative Džaferović. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18921	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Dokić,...I generally agree with the discussion that you presented, it is set in principle. But please pay attention to one sentence you have spoken. So you said the law put us in the position we are in, and I was saying that under that same law we could not be in the position we are in. I said that the chairman of the Council of Ministers had the opportunity, or one or the other, as there is the possibility of any other minister. He's actually drawn that possibility, which you have on every other minister, unrelated to this case. Now that I'm following everything together, I said a moment ago, and now I'm going to say it out loud, so here it is, so I just said, the point here is the foreign minister. And don't let these two people get mad, they're in that circle. We have tried to change foreign ministers from certain circles before, and here the debate in Parliament has been conducted and it is not good, I feel so, I wish I were wrong, I feel that this situation is about the election commission decision, and I said that the Election Commission has done its job under the law. By law, the court will do its job, and I'm not going into it. Used the move, as an opportunity, to return some of the old things here to Parliament when it comes to the foreign minister. And that's what bothers me and that's what I can't do, which I can't accept. And that's why I said it would be good, if it were Minister Alkalaj, not to mention the point. We see what it is, how the DKP network is doing, how foreign policy is being run in that domain as regards the ministry, see if the man is a criminal or not a criminal, so we don't want the minister who's incompetent, we don't want the criminal, we don't want the criminal, we don't want the criminal, we don't want the... but it's not the subject, but the thing we've brought down, so it's just whether or not. It's not right what he was. It's against the law, but the same law says it doesn't have to be a minister. And when I get it all together, then it seems to me that the most logical thing is how I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18922	Thank you. I just don't know how long this replica is when it's short. Now I'm going to have one debt to you and Honorable Representative Dokić and many others.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18923	Chairman Lozančić: replica and many others.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18924	You see, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, the replica is many in this regard. We here on the agenda today do not have a debate on the Central... Election Commission decision, which is only relevant – even we are not, it might be good, but we are not – to implement the Law on Conflict of Interest, and 90% of the debate comes down to comments from the Law on conflict of interest, which is what it is. The Electoral Commission shall apply it in such a way as to... apply it and, since this is not the subject of the debate, we cannot expect it to be applied, it means to apply it. She applied sanctions that... stood by, in accordance with that law. The chairman of the Council of Ministers under one completely different law – and I like to, I would like to discuss 52 of it, means that we know all our shortcomings... – the Council of Ministers Act has power whenever it wants, or in Arabic, whenever it comes to mind, to make a decision on the replacement of any member of the Council of Ministers, or Deputy Minister. And that's why I don't think it's good, I'm saying this for the sake of time, for rationality, for everything,...it's not good to waste our time, precious time, because we've got more work to do,...and I'm gonna warn you right now... at the College's point of view: there won't be a break. So if you're counting on a break, there's no pause until we finish the job. That's how we'll do it from now on, so go ahead, and we'll all check in, and we'll change here in the presidency. So... you know that, you take care of the weather. So I'm saying this, I'm appealing to you to do the job we came here to do today. We've done enough, let's do more work. No debate on the application of the powers of the chairman of the Council of Ministers will surely change the belief of each of you that it will be dealt with. So, I respect the powers of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, respect his will and will apply them, and I will determine myself as I will determine myself on this particular issue, because at this point in BiH, I think there are far more important issues than this debate, whether the deputy minister is one or the other, or the minister is this decent or unsuitable at this point, especially for the reasons set out to be a minister, i.e. the Deputy Minister. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Džaferović: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18925	So, I apologize for overstepping the time of the replica in the first line, and thank you, Chairman, and the second thing that you confirmed the allegations that I made in my discussion. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18926	I thank you, too. The next is distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18927	Dear President, colleagues and fellow representatives, distinguished guests, this example tells us what kind of conflict of interest we have. I think it's good to discuss it, because we have a law that's not good and we don't change it, and even though we have powers to do so, it's our duty. So we have a Law on conflict of interest that violates fundamental human rights, introduces bans, discrimination, promotes corruption, threatens family creation, reverses work on important issues in this country on non-essential issues. If it wasn't sad, it would be funny, if we had a discussion about the Secretary of Foreign Affairs's resolution because he was a member of the Supervisory Board somewhere, and because that firm made a deal with some in the insurance of several tens of thousands of marks, and we don't have a theme of having an external trade deficit of 8 billion marks, and the minister could be a member of the Supervisory Board of any company that makes us such a major deficit, and there wouldn't be a conflict of interest, that would be quite fine. 53 For these reasons, I will not support this Council of Ministers proposal today. I believe that we should not support it and I propose one conclusion: to postpone the statement of this decision for a 90-day period and to task the resolution group to make amendments and supplement the Law on conflict of interest which these examples will not be in conflict of interest, because I believe this is not in conflict of interest. If we want to ban some companies, whether private, from working with BiH institutions, then we should ban institutions from making contracts. And now we've brought in elected appointed officials so they can be told something that they can't influence at all. So the foreign minister couldn't influence anything and stop the company from making some kind of deal. I suggest you support this conclusion and this is how we solve this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18928	I thank the honourable representative. The following has been reported by the honourable representative Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18929	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'll be very brief. Let me read on page 2. Reports from the Committee on Trade, i.e. the conflict of interest, which is the reason for this commission, says: It is important to point out that, when the Council of Ministers was checked, after the 2006 elections, a statement by Sven Alkalaj indicated that in the event of appointing the Minister of Foreign Affairs, he would resign as a member of the Supervisory Board at the VGT High Dionycian Society. So it's not true Sven Alkalaj didn't give information to the Electoral Commission. The election commission has given the right to appoint Sven Alkalaj... Another question is raised here: What did not the Election Commission do when we asked Sven Alkalaj the second time that she realized that she had not fulfilled that promise and that she did not fulfil that condition. Please, I'd be happier if we had here a report from the Council of Ministers... I'd say about the unquality work of Sven Alkalaj, than about this, because it seems to me to be the failure of the Central Election Commission, not Sven Alkalaj. So I think we should ask ourselves a good question here. I'm not about to say that we have a conflict of interest law that's no good. He's been good so far, he's been who he is. Why didn't the Central Election Commission just apply it, when she already had that information. For these reasons, I think that today we should objectively try to find a solution here, and I will vote, so we will vote, as I believe we should vote in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18930	Thank you. No more reported on this agenda item. I'm closing the debate. Before we move to the next item of the agenda, I'd like to introduce you to the fact that we don't have a quorum at this point. And I give five minutes to all club presidents to invite MPs to enter the hall... Otherwise, we're going to interrupt the session, and here we're going to find out who's gone, because 54 of whom we've interrupted the session, because this really doesn't make sense, and it's not right... that there's so many MPs outside the gym. And if anyone has a need, let them look for the name of the club break, they'll get it, according to the Rules of Procedure. We move to the third point of the established agenda: Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax under the shortened procedure, pursuant to Article 126, is required by Advocate Momčilo Novaković. Rules of Procedure On 26 May, the Honorable representative Novaković delivered the draft law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act with the request to be considered under the reduced procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, the request is included in the agenda of this session. I am opening a debate on the request of Mr. Novaković. Honorable representative Novaković explains the request.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18932	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, I will only explain a few sentences as to why I believe... this law requires urgent procedure... In fact, a few days ago, I read in the media... from the Management Board of indirect taxation so that some changes to the law could be applied that it would take six months. In other words, if we would like to start applying a law from next year, it is therefore necessary six months after its adoption of the preparation of the Management Board and all that is related, it means for the Management Board, in order to make the law applicable. With that, that is the key reason why I have suggested that Article 126 be considered. And in that, of course, the reasons for passing the law itself, I'm going to be very brief today, and if it passes, then I'm going to talk more about the procedure. As far as the reasons are concerned, I must say that I am fully aware of what difficulties this law will face to get support and that the chances of getting support are very low. Namely, starting with the board's position on indirect taxation, and through those who control the budgets, which is much more important whether the budgets are full than whether and how this budget filling has negative consequences on the most vulnerable layers of society, the fact is that today we are in a situation and sudden price hikes, by the downturn of production in the economy, brought that the poverty rate is higher than it was last month, and the next month will be higher than this month. From this it is quite clear that it is necessary to find certain methods to stop this process. The assessment is... that at least the most endangered layers can be allowed in this way to have a more worthy life and at least those with the biggest problems. So around these jumps prices on the products that are subject to zero rate, provide...normal life. It's just some of the reasons. Of course, if I go into the debate of the law, I'm going to talk more about price growth indices, of course, I'm going to talk about that degree of poverty, much wider than I'm talking about in this part right now. Thank you. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18933	I would like to thank Reverend Novaković. I don't have any charges to argue with. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Proposal for a framework law on secondary vocational education and training in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) The respective Constitutional Legal Commission delivered the Law Proposal Report on 28 May 2008. The commission adopted seven amendments that became components of the bill. Dear Representative Vinko Zorić submitted in the plenary phase an amendment that will defend again, which wants to defend again. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. Dear Representative, First Vice-President Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18935	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I only want a few sentences, not to say in principle, of course, to say. I sincerely hope that we will adopt this law today, thus rounding up a process of establishing a legal framework, a state framework for the field of education. It is certain that the job is not completed, that there is, perhaps, an even more complicated and comprehensive business of implementing all these laws, coordination between different levels of government dealing with this activity, institution, etc. But for the first step, I think we'd be in a situation today to round up, so that standard at country level. And that's why I came out to, in some way, welcome the efforts made at the Ministry, and of course to give us the confession that we have... so far followed... these initiatives and proposals from the Resort Ministry. Surely there are a number of dilemmas left when it comes to higher education,....the Bologna process, etc., I use the opportunity to reserve the ministry, I suppose they know that they have remained dilemmas and about the undergraduate study, masters of studies of two years, doctoral studies, whether, when the study was completed, the practical understanding of the Bologna process etc. And I believe that the resolution ministry, together, I say, with other structures dealing with education in entities and cantons, will do it in a more serious way now. In the end, I want to point out that today's law, in my opinion, is one of the most important laws in the overall reform of education, because practically secondary vocational schools 56 cover about 70% of young people and secondary schools are practically the place through which we can streamline,... i.e. co-ordinate education needs with economy, market etc. And I think it's very important. ... So, we have here today an amendment which, in my opinion,... should not be an obstacle to the adoption of this law and I think that today we should necessarily go in the direction of rounding this... activity that was led in BiH back a few years. Unfortunately, it could have been faster, but here we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18936	Thank you. Next distinguished representative Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18937	Well, I'll do it for a while, just on the trail of what my colleague Belkić was talking about. Namely, I have submitted a dozen amendments and these amendments – all the reasons for my amendments were that this was an agreement with the county, or cantonal ministers responsible for education. About five or six amendments were agreed with Minister Nović, including this amendment, which did not receive the necessary majority of the Committee. I renewed it in the plenary phase, and I wish my colleagues would support this amendment of mine. I have to say that, in order for all this to come to light, I have to say here in front of the public and the House, so that Mr. Raguž could have knocked this law down on the Constitutional Commission, but I told him, "Leave this law alive, I will submit the amendment again and defend it in the plenary phase." In fact, you see that the result of the vote was three "for", two "against" and one "abstained". This "sustained" was Mr. Raguž. So, we left this law consciously in... life, but I don't think this amendment should be an obstacle and that one can respect the opinion, here's... half of the county ministers, to write like this in the law, and that's the Constitution... of these counties guaranteed to read this part of Article 24. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18938	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18939	I'm one of those who has more amendments to this law. I think Mr. Zorić and I had the most amendments. And of those who were, therefore, in the debate, some in part and accepted the Commission at the commission stage and I repeated five amendments at this plenary stage. Amendment I refers to Article 10 where he says,...I suggest that that member be changed. In Article 10, it says: Standards and quality of education, training in the framework of secondary vocational education..., including adult education and training, is followed by the Education Agency. My proposal is that: standards and quality in the field of vocational education and training follow the Ministry of Education, i.e. education depending on the level. Amendment II refers to Article 13 where, in my opinion, there are some illogicalities. In fact, Article 13 defines the association of schools, and then at the point of the first member, it is said: that autonomy is viewed as joining schools in one or more communities of secondary schools, each retaining the property or character of a legal person. In point (3) of the same article, then, it says: that schools forming a community regulate their rights by contract, and then the community can have a legal personality. So there is one illogical fact that Article 1 (1) defined that it does not have a legal personality, and then point (3) is defined as having the property of a legal person from which I am... namely, I find it not logical that such communities have a legal personality. It is not disputed, therefore, that more catering schools from different areas can be joined in the community of catering schools, but it is not logical that this community has a legal personality. That's why I suggested that this member be deleted, because I believe that in this way the defined role of the community of these schools does not make sense, that it definitely reduces the autonomy of schools that have legal personality. The next amendment is amandman III to Article 14. in which it is defined that... communities are registered in accordance with this law with the Ministry of Civil Affairs, within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law, and that the ministry adopts a Regulation on the rules and manner of registration of communities of secondary schools. Of course, this continues with what I was just talking about that can't have a legal face and then this way registration doesn't make sense. Amendment V refers to Article 19, and it seems to me that there is more technical nature here, although they did not consider it that way in the commission. In fact, it's about funding where I suggested... to define: that the funds for the work of professional schools are provided by the founder of the local community, and that part of the school's resources is provided from other sources. There's something different defined here. Namely, the people I talked to about this felt this way, as defined in the law, was a problem at private schools. So, in the case of private high schools, which is perfectly normal and what's the process that's open with us. So it's a professional question. I have to say I'm no expert in this area, but those people I talked to think that this kind of funding regulation can be... problematic in these private schools. This is as short as I can, of course, about these amendments. I expect that indeed MPs of some of these amendments, we are fully aware that some of them have others, let's say, political connotation, but some of these amendments are, like this last one, or like the one when it comes to legal persons, amendments that deserve, I think, professional attention, not this political aspect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18940	I thank the honourable representative. The following is the registered honourable representative, Šefik Džaferović. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18941	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I have come to the floor to confirm, mostly, what my colleagues have been saying so far, Mr. Belkić, Zorić, Mr. Novaković, what was happening when the Constitutional Commission... in its workshop, yes, was processing this law and with the final text came here to the House of Representatives. We had real feelings for this problem. We've delayed the debate several times, asked for an extension of the deadline, talked to each other and the Ministry, and, behold, we've come to the point that we have a law that, I believe, today in this text will be accepted here. It is true that all the amendments adopted by the Constitutional Commission are amendments accepted by the Ministry, i.e. the Minister of Civil Affairs, which was in this law with us in the Constitutional Commission, as well as with regard to all other laws proposed by its ministry. It is true that compared to these other amendments that are repeated in relation to Mr Zorić's amendment, where the minister also gave consent and said the amendment could be accepted, but the Constitutional Commission did not accept it. So, the truth is, I should say it here, the minister did say so, and this is exactly what Mr. Zorić was talking about, and it is true that Mr. Raguž, as a member of the Commission, had the opportunity to stop this law by his vote, because the voting ratio was as it is and that is so. As it is also true that several amendments by Mr Zoric have been accepted, that of several amendments Mr Zorić has given up and that all amendments by Mr Novaković, who have been accepted, have been approved by the Ministry or accepted and all that is repeated is now not accepted by the Ministry. So these are facts. I think that's what we have today and where the question is being asked, so the only thing that this discussion, in my opinion, comes down to is Mr Zorić's amendment, since it was accepted by the Ministry, not by the Constitutional Commission. I will, of course, stay with the views that I had on the Constitutional Legal Commission, but whatever the matter is over, we should certainly vote for this law and finally round up the reform that Mr Belkić was talking about, at least normally, and then go to the realization of the overall educational reform. I think there's a lot of problems waiting for us here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18942	The next is Honorable Representative Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18943	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I can say that I'm happy, I'll actually be happy if we pass this law today, and I don't think there are any obstacles that this law should see the light of day today and be adopted. In fact, I have to say here that in a set of these laws I have participated in the Constitutional Legal Commission, and therefore in this law which, I agree with the predecessors, has perhaps the greatest importance for our... schoolboys, for our people who... are getting an interest, which 59 can open a certainly large door and a path in their lives. On the Constitutional Legal Commission, I think, there was one co-operation, there was a minister, we were trying to pass this law, to accept those amendments that could be accepted and which the Ministry... proposed. True, there was little dilemma about this proposed amendment to Zorić. In fact, there was a question of whether something constitutional was in line with the Federation Constitution or not, and I can, after this, say my personal opinion. I think we should pass the law in this text as it is before us with this amendment, because it does not conflict with the constitutional solution in the Federation, and that was our main... dilemma and obstacle whether to adopt or not, whether to support it or not, and thus round up a very important business, which is, as my predecessors have already said, there is no dilemma that this law should not be adopted today. What the honourable messenger before me was saying about some dilemmas, to me these dilemmas are logical, that I can get rid of myself in this way. It's logical that you can connect... schools to make one better quality organization, one better quality study of certain subjects... in high school, and it's also logical that they can make arrangements and become a legal person. It's one, one normal sequence, and there shouldn't be an obstacle to the adoption of this law. So, I support this law, I personally, and I support this amendment that has... been passed, because it does not conflict with the Federation Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18944	Thank you. The next is the second deputy president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18945	Thank you. Just for a little while, so I want to say that I am very happy that in BiH we have a law which, apparently by discussion here in Parliament, will get most of it. Let me say in front of the SNSD Club that there is nothing disputed for us about the amendment proposed by Ambassador Zorić and that we will support him. And according to the discussion of the other MPs, I see that he has the will to support himself, which we can be pleased with and predict that this law, which is a very important law, would be obtained today in BiH. As for the other amendments, I think we should use this voting break and see the Ministry of Other Amendments if they can get support, so we should... set ourselves up with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18946	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Jukić. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18947	I absolutely agree that BiH is needed for the normative rounding of legislation from the field of education, to pass such a framework law on secondary vocational education and training in BiH. However, what my remarks and the HDZ Club have been, is the fact that a single mistake has been made this time. I don't know if it was by chance or intentionally that when creating a solution to this law, those bodies in charge of this area were not consulted under the Constitution, and these are the competent resolution ministries in the counties. And here it says... It says who negotiated and consulted on the creation of this law. These are entity education ministries, and it is clear and it is known that cantonal, or county education ministries are in charge of education policy and legislation. I think that's a big mistake and this reminds me a little bit, we really need it to be a lesson to all of us, in the way the law is passed on to the public TV system and service, where the same mistake was made and where these laws were approached without the participation of the representatives of the Croatian people. I wouldn't want to prophesy the fate of this law, but it won't surprise me at all, it wouldn't surprise me if there were any problems here at the adoption, especially in implementing a law like this. So, I don't know why it was done, but I say I'd like this practice never to be repeated again, so that all those in charge of this problem are not involved in the law-making process. And this is also an invitation – although I see here that there are not many representatives, i.e. ministers, or members of the Council of Ministers – that in future we are really careful and that we include, in the making of the law, all those who are under the Constitution of BiH, i.e. the constitutions of entities, i.e. countys, in charge of some area. I am convinced that there will be much less problems and that there will be better and better quality legal solutions. And as for this law and the solutions themselves, in the commission phase, something was fixed, but I'm not sure that everything that was the idea, the idea, or the remarks of the county ministers of education, that they were five, that they were involved and adopted through these repairs, or through amendments to the text of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18948	I thank the esteemed representative Jukić. And, since there are no more reports, I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18949	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18950	It's done.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18951	... sentences to say, if you please, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18952	If there's any need, go ahead. Dear Representative Izetbegović. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18953	Well, I appreciate that it's not bad to welcome the name of the SDA by passing another... law that isn't perfect. It's a framework law... but it's a good shift in that area. It is in line with the Lisbon Convention, kopenhagenški, Skopje, the Bologna Declaration, agreed with the European Commission and the OHR, if it brings us a framework plan and a programme at BiH level, the joint core is reaffirmed. The Agency for Education, through this law, will get full affirmation, we will get a unique register of diplomas, etc., yes, to cut short. Erem, the U.S.A. welcomes the adoption of the law. Cheers.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18954	Dear Representative Vinko Zorić: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18955	I, of course, have no... desire to replicate to Mr. Jukić, I will... tell the facts here. As early as 2003, when we in this Parliamentary Assembly adopted the Framework Law on Middle and Basic Education, and then the county ministers were consulted and then, of course, without talking to the Minister of Civil Affairs, it was asked to say what is a minimum amendment and to adopt the law in parliamentary procedure. And all those amendments they proposed as a minimum have passed. In order for them to call us Croatian MPs, individual county ministers, again. This is exactly what I'm saying for the sake of the truth and for Mr. Jukić and for me, so they won't be called. All these amendments plus this amendment that I have renewed are in line with the Hrvat – ministers in the counties and with Mr Nović. And after I, if adopted – and of course Mr Jović was invited by the chairman of the committee in the House of Peoples, he could not come for personal reasons – so I will, and when this law is published, call the ministers again and say, "Come on, tell me what has not been adopted, and you have agreed with me and the Minister at the meeting." So, we need this to protect us MPs, who we have to work on election bases and therefore we need to respect some facts. This is all that is in the report of the Constitutional Commission, which is also a member of Mr Jukić, and this amendment is further, which I have renewed, all agreed with Minister Nović and the Minister of County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18956	Thank you. No more reports. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We move to the fifth point of the established agenda: Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) 62 The report by the relevant committee on the proposal for this law was submitted on 28 May. The Commission adopted the bill in the proposed text. Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović has tabled six amendments, which he wants to defend at the plenary stage. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18958	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief, just to draw attention to that, apart from some of these technical amendments that technically amend this law, there is one fundamental objection to the law. That's why I renewed the amendments... in the plenary phase. In fact, there is a whole chapter in this law that was earlier in a law that defines this area and actually speaks about data responsibility, because this is a very sensitive matter, and you know, what happens to the CIPS, with protection of personal data, with the availability of personal data to some who should not be, etc. Then obligations of employees, infringements directed against the Agency's work, then access and transfer of data, data insurance, etc. Here, of course, and the terms are being defined... which should be given to the director, or candidate for director of this agency. Therefore, I believe that most of these amendments are acceptable. Of course, Mr. Živković is laughing over this first amendment, where the agency's headquarters is. Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18959	Thank you. Dear First Vice-President Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18960	Here, in my opinion, it's a very similar situation with this law. We are practically with this law today, which I believe we will adopt, surrounding a project that has been going on for several years. Therefore, the CIP project is transformed into a management organisation within the Ministry of Civil Affairs and it is believed that this will create assumptions for a more serious organisation, i.e.... for better assumptions for competent and sufficient capacity to work on these very important jobs. So, in any case, this law, in my opinion, should be supported. I understand what Mr. Mehmedović is talking about. Surely some of these things that are spoken of can be done by internal acts within the agency, because it will now become a administrative organisation, it will have its own internal regulations etc. And a lot of those things can be solved inside. 63 On the subject of the seat, I have practically one question, one dilemma, I have not intervened with any amendment or anything, but it is probably possible in the subsequent procedure to agree with the House of Nations, possibly, etc. If I'm right, and I'm not saying I am – so we're talking about Article 5 in the attitude (1) it's said that the Agency's headquarters is in Banja Luka. In the view (2), it is said that the Agency has basic organisational units that may be outside its seat, and then in the position (3) of the same member, says that the organisation is outside of the Agency’s headquarters and the Centre for Storage, Personalisation, Transport of Personal Documents, based in Banja Luka. Is the seat then reduced to the building, so when something's not in the same building outside is the seat, or is it a mistake? So, I'm talking about the next one. The law says, in article 5, headquarters in Banja Luka. There are basic organizations, whose headquarters can be outside Banja Luka, and then at point (3), says that...the organisational unit is outside the Agency's headquarters and the Storage Centre, etc., with a centre in Banja Luka, based in Banja Luka. So, this - please this promoter, Ministry, I have absolutely no intention of having an absolute problem, I will support the law, etc. but in the follow-up to its procedure or in some subsequent technical intervention, etc. to make this clear – it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18961	Thank you. No more charges for discussion, closing the debate. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered the Law Proposal Report on 28 May. The bill was adopted in the proposed text, no amendments. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. Dear Representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18963	So, I skip some agenda points, there's a lot about this commission, I'm not answering, but here I decided not to skip to say one thing. So the law needs to be supported, it improves the conditions under which someone gets the chance to pass a judicial exam, that's a good thing. But in the context of this law, I want here in front of the public and all those who are following us to say something that I have been thinking about for a longer period of time, which is: state authority or authority to conduct a procedure and that after that procedure, a certain certificate such as a passed judicial exam can be issued, on the basis of which only one institution is entitled to participate in various affairs throughout the country in a modern and normal state. We here, therefore, have a situation that under the same authority, the same job, competitively, we have three state bodies, two entity and one at the level of the BiH state. This is, I think, one of the few cases where the same job, or for the same job, are fully equally competing by three authorities in the BiH state, and I think that could lead to problems in the future. I can only open up some: competition among the state authorities, conditions under which exams are conducted, the way exams are passed, and all BiH people have the right to compete, to take the exam before all three of these authorities, every man from the Federation has the right to go to RS, to take the exam and vice versa, and all of them to the state commission. It's very serious, it can be a very serious problem. And I didn't get up here to talk about how to transfer jurisdiction from entity to state, but to point to this problem. This is an abnormal situation where the functioning of the legal system is at stake and will have to be accounted for in the coming period in BiH. I think it's possible to find ways to get out of this, and to be satisfied, let's say, all political interests, because people who get a certificate from any of these three bodies have the right to work throughout BiH both as judges and as prosecutors. Thank Bog that's the way it is, and I think this is the way this area is supposed to start getting in line. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18964	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. We move to the next item of the agenda in order, that is the seventh item of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) On 7 May 2008, the Council of Ministers delivered the bill from this point to the procedure. It is considered in the regular procedure, the constitutional commission is applicable. The opinion of the Constitutional Committee on Constitutional Foundation and Principles was given to you on 28 May 2008. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Dear second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18966	Thank you. It's also very short. I support the initiative of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, which has submitted amendments and additions to the Law on Associations in Procedure and that the situation in this field is further regulated and regulated. I'm particularly glad that you're here explicitly in Article 4. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions, or a member who treats Article 5, states who and how he can set up associations and foundations in BiH. I think we've had a lot of discussion here in this 65 Parliament about this and one conclusion, so, about this point on the agenda -- maybe it could have been done when there's a law in the second reading -- but here I'm going to take the opportunity to suggest it. The BiH Ministry of Justice is tasked with reviewing its decisions so far on the signing of the association and foundations in the BiH Registry and bringing them in line with this law, of course, when it is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18967	Thank you. No more reports. He has a respected representative, Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18968	I'll be brief again. Therefore, I welcome the adoption of amendments to the Law on Associations and Foundations in order to simplify the registration of these associations and foundations and to introduce greater discipline and in registration, but also in the work of these associations and foundations. However, I am not glad that these amendments and additions have such many articles. We may be in a situation, whether through the amendment phase or at the time of the vote – this reminds me a little of that morning law that my colleague Džaferović mentioned several times, which is also very important, the Law on Conflict of Interest – means we may have to or may need to approach in due course a new Law on Associations and Foundations, because almost half of the articles here are changing. We had 56 or 57 articles in basic law, and now we have 28 articles that treat changes and additions. It's just that, very briefly, I wanted to say that I welcome the changes and the additions, but I'm not glad we had to change this much, so we had a bad law and maybe there was an opportunity to come up with a whole new law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18969	Thank you. No MPs reported, no need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Did you, did you suggest? _________(?) 66 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18972	I thank the chairman. So, this law was passed in 2001 and after so many years these are practically the first changes, one was just the alignment of the Ministry's name. So probably in the amendment procedure and there will be more suggestions, but actually here are the sublimated experiences that we had in the previous years. On the basis of Parliament's conclusion, I would just say that the ministry cannot carry out an audit. If the amendment procedure lays down in the law to carry out the audit and in what extent and in what way, it would be our obligation. And if it is concluded that an audit should be carried out, then it is simply difficult to carry out it on official duty.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18973	I thank the Deputy Minister. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the eighth point of the established agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Border Control, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee The Council of Ministers delivered the draft law on border control on 24 April. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on the legal basis on 10 May 2008. The Joint Defence and Security Committee, which delivered its opinion yesterday (June 3rd), was relevant. You've seen it's a negative opinion of the commission. So they didn't accept the principles. In accordance with Article 107 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure of the House, we decide on the opinion of the Committee. If the House adopts a negative opinion by the Commission, the proposed law is considered rejected. If the House does not accept the opinion of the Committee, the House asks the Commission to draw up a new opinion based on the new guidelines set by the House and within the time limit set by the House. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Mirko Okolić. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18975	Dear Chairman, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of NGOs, means of information, the international community and other guests and the Border Police, this law, you saw that it did not pass on this committee, and today I propose to us in Parliament that we also accept the Commission's conclusion for the following reason. He was prepared,... as the legislator of this law, or rapporteur in front of the promoter, said, about six months. And we don't argue that people may have worked really hard, but they haven't been able to find an understanding between certain institutions... and the international community, primarily the DICAF, to comply with this law and to come into the commission phase without any of those involved in this law. It is unacceptable for us to receive comments on the Commission from the Border Police, which is not a legislator, and yet it is also unacceptable that the Border Police must send us directly comments, to the Commission, because it failed with the proposal to end it. And we believe that with this many remarks, and there are more than 17 of them, that it could not have been acted in the amendment phase, and that it would not have come to a certain level of quality law before, which is also DICAF in some segments, which are very important, said it should be brought into line with the principles of the EU and some other standards. And that's why it was asked, here I personally asked the Commission if the rapporteur was entitled to withdraw the law. Since he had no right, because there was no authority from the Council of Ministers, who proposed that this law be withdrawn, to bring it into line with all these necessary entities that had objections to this law and since it did not happen to be able to withdraw it, this law received from us, an assessment of what it had received, or did not pass the commission phase, we did not support its principles. And I don't think it would be a good idea to support the principles of this law today, because we're going to get a real law in the first reading on which we're going to have to invest a lot of... amendments, and in that amendment forest, I'm telling you, we're not going to succeed in quality amendments to this law to the level where everyone needs to be satisfied, by the border police, us citizens, the international community and standards, and our and our standards of the international community. And I stand by and I suggest that the Commission be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18976	I thank the honourable representative. The next reported representative is Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18977	So it is a law that will be found or already on the list of BiH obligations in the Roadmap to abolish this visa regime. This fact points to the conclusion that it is necessary to work quickly and I do not know how smart it is for us to adopt the Commission's report today and to give the Council of Ministers the opportunity to propose the law again, so that we here in the parliamentary procedure are discussing it again. Or it may be wiser to make a difference in opinions that are obvious between the Democratic Centre for the Control of Armed Forces, so DICAF from Geneva, and the Expert Group or the Ministry of Security of BiH are resolved directly by the two institutions. I have proposed this within the Commission, and I think there is a willingness for both of us to be in Geneva and we have discussed this issue, and I think it would be smarter if we returned this report today, so that we don't adopt the Commission's report, we put in charge 68 of the Ministry of Security to communicate with the DICAF, and we really care what the DICAF thinks about this issue, solve all the issues in question. From everything I've heard, on one side and on the other, I've seen that there aren't really any significant differences and that there's a great willingness to get things together. And it's not 72 questions, when you take and read the material, you'll see that things will come down to some 10, 15 questions, and I say, and the Ministry of Security and the people who represented the law down on the Commission are ready to go that way. I think we'd better get to the law sooner if we don't adopt the Commission's report, let's get the Commission to act the way it was proposed. One of the proposals, therefore, was also on the Commission's proposal for these institutions to agree and to come to us with the text to build up the law through the amendments and to attend a session. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18978	Thank you. The next reported representative of Križanović, then Huskić, was respected.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18979	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I usually, as a member of the Commission, opt for the Commission's position, no matter how I acted on that commission, and indeed, this time I'll make an exception, here. You see, I am not going to repeat now that my two colleagues as members of the Commission have also expressed their impressions on the Commission's debate, but it is certainly one thing: that something is happening out of procedure when it comes to this law. You see, there are some remarks coming from institutions that participated in the work of the bill's proposal, and then there's also DICAF with a number of formal remarks,... and that number of objections comes out to 72. When it comes to the essence of all this, it can be concluded that there are perhaps several serious objections that the law should be brought into line with certain Schengen principles, although we are not yet in the Schengen regime. But I think it's possible, therefore, that this law is very easy to fix in the amendment phase and that it's really hard to have an objection. Therefore, I will stand up for it this time and be against the Commission's Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18980	Thank you. Dear Representative Okolić reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18981	Watch out for something, I really don't mind that this law is passed as soon as possible and I'm... I'm up for it. But, people, we need to understand that we have recently had a lot of draft laws by the Council of Ministers who are experiencing a similar fate. But the bill promoter can't send the law and admit that there are shortcomings, somewhere around 17 there dots, and you don't want to pull it back and build it up, which we told him: pull it back, build it up in five days, and get along and put it back on the Commission. Well, it's inconclusive that the motionor delivers a law with 17 objections that they admit 69 that they are not in line and that they should be brought into line. Well, that's half the job. If every legislator does so, then we better take it and say, "You no longer do this law, leave it to this commission or to Parliament, we'll take it, finish it, etc." This is now until the end of the law through the amendment phase by MPs and more, in my opinion, it is not the Council of Ministers' law that has not authorised the rapporteur on the Commission to withdraw the law as we have told him: we are for the law, people, and you yourself have admitted that we should change this kind of attitude, agree and that it is possible, even said and admitted, that they did not want to. It doesn't matter what we call this practice, we need to avoid getting any more law in the commission procedure with so many objections. The law must be brought into line with all segments and all elements of those who participated in the drafting of the law and to come to the commission. And we'll be on the committee against or for, with some amendments. But they can't act alone through the amendment phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18982	Thank you. Replica: Honored representative Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18983	Well, I don't know what I've... figured out as a replica, but I have a need to explain this attitude myself. Therefore, it is about objections that are not of a principled nature and can be corrected in the amendment phase. We had examples of laws where we had more amendments than members of the law. So, if there's a will to come to the law, we've done it. So, no, it can't be a rule, it's especially a story, that I'm not going back to what I just said last time, about what's going on in the Council of Ministers at all, what we're serving laws, what is the approach of institutions, who with whom everything... makes arrangements to make an observation etc. - that's a second witness. I'm talking about the law here, and I think the law can be fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18984	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18985	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, I am a member of the Defence and Security Commission and I am trying to approach this law in one way, I would say, a positive way and I call on all of us to approach the law in a positive way because, I think, and I am convinced, that this law is a collateral damage to some of the relations within the Council of Ministers, the minister's relationship with the Commission, etc. Let's not open that story right now, but the fact is, there is. We do this, if we break the principles today, whatever law,...the principles will remain the same. So, I'm not talking about principles, I suggest we accept the principles, and for the reason that Mr Džaferović mentioned in order to keep the law in 70 procedures, and even my colleague Okolić, who, here, has advocated that the report be accepted by the Commission. In his replica he said, in a way, is it, in fact, that the law is such that it can be fixed along with the amendments. So, there's an opportunity for us to keep the law in order. The fact is, and I am convinced that amendments can be fixed, and there is also a problem in communication within, I think, the Council of Ministers and, in particular, the Ministry with the Commission, and that is the problem of some other kind. I suggest that the parties, who have delegated ministers there, that they... talk to ministers, that these problems be removed without us breaking the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18986	I thank the honourable representative. Is it a replica or a debate? The Republic has the esteemed second deputy president Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18987	I would only add to what my predecessor said. In fact, it is not just the minister's relationship to the Commission, this is today the ministry's relationship to this Parliament. If you get a negative report from the Commission and you accept yourself that there are at least 15 things to change, the minister or one of them should have told this parliament here. And that is an additional burden for this problem at all, and that is the Ministry's relationship to this Parliament which has not found fit for MPs here... why the Commission's report is negative. I don't see any reason why it would support itself and go into further procedure if it weren't for the resolution ministry.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18988	Thank you. The following has been reported for the debate by distinguished representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18989	Well, here's an offer from these discussions, although I didn't mean to answer, and I'm a member of the Commission, and I'm saying that it's not that ideal and it can't go as far as this law is concerned. I will be direct: he is the problem of the minister and the ministry. It is neither the Commission nor the Council of Ministers' problem. I have to be honest, here's what Honorable colleague Živković said now that it is obvious and visible that the minister has no will to make an effort to pass this law, except possibly those solutions that he has offered and which have not been able to pass since the beginning. He was interested in such solutions and later we did not have the ministry's efforts to reach a solution. And it was certain that at an early stage, when the first warnings were that we had a lot of problems, we have problems with international institutions that this law did not comply with certain European standards. We can say to what extent, perhaps not to the extent that the warnings by the DICAF were 100%, but the fact is that there are a few things, that... certain European standards are not respected, and that I am talking about those who can now be respected, and I can accept the fact that we didn't have to and could not respect them at this stage. Those are serious objections. We don't know how that bullet got there. However, I must be honest that Minister Sadović is increasingly in those bullets, so here is 71 and this last one with the DICAF and the fact that we tried to make some effort on the Commission. However, the people of the Ministry had such an approach to maltene from the call: here, so you from the Commission make a law! I didn't see the will at all that people were going to try, we saw some ministers fighting for their laws, saving them until the last minute, offering solutions. There was no such thing here, and it's obvious that this is mature for a new approach. The Council of Ministers will normally have to get involved in this and there is room... by emergency procedure or otherwise to come up with a solution that is acceptable. We wouldn't enter a certain... fact is that certain considerations within the Ministry are trying to pass on to the Commission. The same is unacceptable for us and... perhaps the minister is not responsible for that, but he is bearing as... the overall state of the ministry that this is being transferred, or trying to transfer it to the Commission, which the Commission has not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18990	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to... the ninth item of the agenda: _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, dear representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18992	Chairman, I'm looking for a brief break in which to agree on the method of continuing the session, given that we are exhausted, if I see well, the laws and that in this brief break of about twenty minutes we agree... and how and until we work. [[Common discussion]] 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18994	20 minutes at the request of the SNSD Club. 72 [[PAUZA]] We're continuing our work. I will brief you on the discussion and the achievement of the talks within the College and in consultation with other club representatives. So, as one significant number of representatives' clubs expressed their desire to try to shorten the time of today's work due to the fatigue of MPs and other commitments made, how by point 8, we completed the debate on the proposals of legal solutions and these other decisions. The College's proposal, after these consultations, is that we continue to work until 17,45, to discuss, and in 18, to go with a statement on the points of the agenda that we have discussed, by changing the order of discussion of the remaining points of the agenda, so that we can discuss the points backwards in this section, as it goes: point 17, point 16, point 15, and after that, if there is time, we would go to point 9. The points that we fail to discuss today, and that means even deciding about them, would have entered the next session of the House of Representatives for automation. She, here's for your information, although I meant to say it eventually, plans between 16 and 20.6 for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and you will be particularly informed after the session is over. Since we don't have a business situation like this, I'm asking you to make the House known about this proposal, as it is. Please prepare for the vote on this proposal, the way of further work. So, please prepare. Vote now! "For" 28, "against" one, "restricted" three, a sufficient entity majority. I konstatirati this proposal to continue the session, the 30th session of the House of Representatives, has been accepted. And we immediately move on to the 17th point of the agenda – I apologize while I now have some papers of this – means "Ad." 17. The Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Macedonia on Cooperation in the fight against terrorism, organised crime, illegal drug trafficking, psychotropic substances and pre-surveillances, illegal migration and other criminal acts, (b) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Macedonia on readmission (readmission) persons who are illegally staying, (c) the Framework Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Communities on the rules of cooperation relating to the financial support of the EC of Bosnia and Herzegovina as part of the implementation of assistance through pre-accession assistance instruments (IPA), (d) the two-year agreement between BiH and the Regional Office of the World Health Organisation for Europe 2008/2009, (e) the Budapest Agreement on the International Recognition of the Depositary of micro-organisms through the patenting process, f) the Protocol relating to the International Registration of trade marks, 73 g) of the Convention on the Protection of the European Union and the Convention on the Law on the Protection of Trade of Trade of the European Union (EC).
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u18999	Well, nothing, I'm just saying that this way the elected Ad hoc commission guarantees the independence of the board as an independent body. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19000	Thank you. Dear Representative Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19001	I thank you, Mr. President. I think in these joint committees we should already see what party representation is, not to speak national. And here it looks like it follows that we have representation in the College, then it needs to be done by verticals in other proposals as well. I think that by respecting and membership of Mr. Jukić and him personally as a representative and club chief, I don't mind, but I also think of the election for the Ombudsman in the Committee still, I think, that a little consideration should be given to the representation and correctness in that representation of the party. If there is no such sensitivity, then here I am staying to suggest Mr Zorić, too, so let him plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19002	Thank you. Here's the esteemed representative, Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19003	Wrong quote. So, I'm not a member of the ombudsman selection committee, so I wouldn't comment otherwise.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19004	Dear Representative Križanović came in.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19005	Well, here I am not, as previous colleagues, to predict a successful choice, etc. But I would make a really correct remark in my best interest. Why is it a secret from sitting down to the agenda point who's proposed to that committee? I don't think there's any reason to create a particular mystery of 75 of which we're going to appoint to certain committees for... in a particular selection committee... So, I'm giving, and here's an official remark: why don't we get these suggestions in time, with the other materials? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19006	I thank the honourable representative. I have to say, I'm not sure you heard me correctly. I said neatly that this was a proposal from the House College, which was presented yesterday at a session of the Extended College and accepted as such. So, I have to say, that's because we didn't have any other suggestions, except for these three proposals at an extended college session yesterday at 4:00. Now, if you really think that every time we talk about the conclusions of an extended college, we need to reopen the debate, we really have a question about what these extended colleges are for. So, if they're just for coordination, for agreement, for conversation, and to prepare the material for the session! So this isn't a fundamental question at all, but I think we need to establish principles. Dear Representative Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19007	So yesterday it was not presented to us, but on my request who is in the Commission, I was told that it would be this and that. And we didn't say anything about it any further, we didn't support anything, this isn't an extended college proposal, this is a proposal from the House College, is it? We didn't do it yesterday, you didn't share that proposal, and we didn't say anything about him yesterday at the Expansive College. We're just getting to know on my inquiry.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19008	So you'll get it. I have to say... I could fix the wrong allegations all day, but I wouldn't do anything but correct the wrong allegations. So, here, you said you got a proposal yesterday, I said neatly that this was a proposal from the House College (in narrow composition). So, verbally, you got orally, that's absolutely correct. So, even as we used to when it comes to appointments, it means never in writing at the House College session (in the narrower composition) were the candidates' proposals presented. So that's true, but that doesn't mean, ladies and gentlemen, that you can't propose another 150 candidates you have today. So go ahead and suggest. Dear Representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19009	Oh, Mr. Chairman, if there's no room in these inter-resor groups, here's no problem. Here I am offering in this Interresor Group for the Making of Election Law, the Law on Conflict of Interest, the financing of political parties, this Immunity Act, here's brother, 76 bajrum, instead of me, I think we'll satisfy it, I think we'll solve this problem. There's room, there's room, there's pain. It's no problem at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19010	Thank you. Dear Representative Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19011	Since it is a very important matter, the independence of the police and police structures, and during this earlier period we have had requests for a secret vote when it comes to an independent auditor by the BiH Party, I am surprised that you are not asking this time to vote in secret. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19012	It's not too late. Maybe we'll look.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19013	Thank you. Here we choose a parliamentary committee that needs to be elected by the members of these bodies and implement the procedure. And when it comes to the agenda, this other home will decide on the members of these bodies. I don't mind if we also conduct a secret vote procedure to ensure independence. But about that then, when we get to that moment. We have a distinguished representative Okolić us.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19014	We're wasting our time.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19015	I'll just tell you something. Here you see, this is the first time when members of the Ad hoc commission are named to have a debate. So far, it's been normal and in agreement. However, people...some things have been understood and are already known for certain MPs who have been malted in all the commissions in which they can be in their home and in the joint commissions, so there is something more, so at the end of the month there is so much. And you have those that aren't in either one at all. Make sure it's already started. So it's complicated. You know, there's no balance between that or open-mindedly tell these are privileged: to be in all possible commissions, and the other won't be in any commission, so then you have to suffer, probably, and these culinary stories that will probably come up on some surface afterwards. But you have people who are on all commissions possible, and you have who isn't in any... commission, you know the reason. Thank you. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19016	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation: the esteemed second vice-president, Dr Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19017	Thank you, Chairman. The correction of the incorrect assumption is that -- here I will speak for the part for which I am in charge -- that we also have commissions of some others in which MPs, such as the Committee on Regulation of the Rules of Procedure, such as... for the selection of the Ombudsman, you well know that they are not just people who are from a position, nor are they elected. It was a proposal for me to talk here about the commission by which some here were against. And all they did was make sure that the law was never passed here. And then they ask to be in the Commission for the selection of those people who regulate the laws that they've all done to be against. The only thing that matters is that my proposal was a man who was in the Defense Commission... from the House of Representatives and who did everything he could to get these laws here. If I was wrong about that definition, I accept my mistakes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19018	I must say, you have successfully knocked down my argument about the fatigue of the MPs. Honorable representative Nanić: replica. Here's all the replicas, all the replicas, I'll give you everything, you'll all get the word. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19019	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I really believe in the findings of Mr Živković who says, I am, so I consider him an MP, no matter what kind of relationship I had with some legal solution, I believe that if he gets the necessary majority from this house that it is the law of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, not those votes that voted him. And in that sense, really, I want to react to it, I don't think it's... the right claim and it's not... honorable, is it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19020	Thank you. Dear Representative Raguž: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19021	I thank you, Mr. President. I need to explain some things. So here, I officially justified the absence of yesterday's Extended College in time, I was officially absent. So there was no opportunity to direct the proposal, with all due respect, I repeat again, and an apology if 78 I mentioned wrongly to Mr. Jukić about the Ombudsman. I don't think you can exhaust all the legitimacy through the Home College proposals, that's absolutely right. And now, in addition to one extreme... the patience that we as a party have shown, that I am not now data, and the legitimacy is somewhere near, in all the committees, in foreign policy bodies and everything else, we simply advocated this law. Mr. Zorić had amendments to this very thing and we believe that we have a legitimate right to participate in the implementation of this law. And we didn't argue anything else. I mean, if there's no sensitivity anymore that... it's coming from the College, then let there's going to be these reactions sometimes. I mean, don't be angry, this... isn't about anyone, but about a fair distribution of a party that we're entitled to by election result. I don't want to be out here right now, they'd be just as popular, here I am now...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19022	I thank my esteemed colleague. And right away, I've only received a concrete proposal from you and already recorded it, but when we decide. So, you've put forward a proposal for a respected representative, Zorić, and he's registered as a proposal, and I'm not angry with anyone who suggested any candidate. And if you have a suggestion you suggest, so does the other one. So there's no need to get angry. Dear Representative Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19023	Replica, if you please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19024	Well, here you go, come on, Reverend Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19025	We could... really discuss a lot of things about some Kolegijum relationships with individual clubs: of traveling and determining who's going to travel to, so let's compare what it was like when some other college was here at the last meeting. And how many messengers from the opposition traveled then, and how many travel today? Of course, right now, when I say this,... then right now, I say, I'm not talking about myself, I wrote one... letter that I'm going to send to the Kolegijum asking that the Interparliamentary Union delegation delete me, because, first of all, it doesn't work, secondly, the formal nature I'm there and no one, not to ask me, but... asks no one there but two or three people. ... The same situation is, let's say, warning about this kind of thing, so that you don't think it's me, I made it clear there that by the end of the term I won't travel, if I haven't traveled anywhere in two years, I think I have two more to endure, and that would be the four. But, then, if you don't think I'm talking about myself, I've made my point on that proposal. What I've been discussing now is what I'm replicating. We're only located where we need to be placed. So, ad hoc commission for the Rules of Procedure, because all clubs are giving someone away, and being there isn't a Kolegijum credit, it's a SDS club that suggested me. Because someone had to be from the SDS Club. So that's why I'm there, not because it's the expression 79 of your will. I was for the Ombudsman because by law someone from the opposition had to be. I didn't have to, of course, be someone else, but someone from the opposition had to be. You couldn't avoid it, I'm not sure you could have avoided it to avoid it. Not the Ombudsman, but the auditor, I apologize, the auditor. So they're not true, they're not true. And it's no problem, no one in the SDS wants to be in these bodies. So, we didn't suggest anyone, I didn't propose, but I want to warn you about the relationships that rule here. And secondly, this is not the law of the majority who voted it, but the law of Parliament, the law of BiH, in fact, is not the law of the majority. So, we don't want to, but maybe some others want to put their member on this board and I don't see that he's the law of those parties who voted for it, because if it's a model of work that... the law belongs to those who voted for it, gentlemen, then we're much closer to that resolution that I suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19026	I'll give everyone the word they asked for, but I just have to point it out one more time. So, if the College had proposed, it would have used the right to propose the rights you seek for yourself to challenge the College, which I don't think is correct. So, the College doesn't dispute your right to suggest the same thing. I don't know, I don't know if you get me wrong, so I repeat this, I haven't made it clear that none of you have the right to propose five more candidates. So, only three are elected and we will choose them democratically, perhaps by a secret vote as there were proposals. There's no problem, but don't mean to create about it now... A colleague's intention is to help work more efficiently. We've evaluated, respected, and we have the right to judge as well as you. So we have a right to suggest how we think we should, but that's not a decision, that's a suggestion. And please concentrate on the proposal of possible candidates in this ad hoc commission outside the House of Representatives to get to... the results. Dear Representative Okolić, then Kalabić, then Križanović, ok.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19027	Well, in my speech, I didn't have any intention at all or any of us could have suspected that one of us was on this committee, so that it was worth what someone said we voted against that law and that we shouldn't be on that ad hoc commission. I just wanted to point out one phenomenon, which is that we've really adopted members of these bodies on every proposal so far, but it seems like it's culminating now, that your proposals are probably out of ignorance and unintentional, I say. Here, I'm saying it wasn't a deliberate bad suggestion. Many people are represented in almost all commissions, and some are not. It's not about the position or the opposition anymore. If you want the opposition, say, you can't be anywhere and that's not the problem. But here you see, it is an obvious example to you Mr. Raguž is not from the opposition, nor Mr. Jukić, and they have a change in balance again. So you've certainly made comments that certain people are in all these ad hoc commissions or almost all of them, and that some are not in either. Well, I just wanted to say that in the future we're making sure that we try to make sure that if someone's at seven, let someone not be, let them not be in eighth, let someone be in one. Thank you. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19028	Thank you. Dear Representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19029	Well, I think it's good that this question is open regardless of what may be in the weather... and there's a reason for that. First of all, I want to say that yesterday at the Expansive College of the doma was clearly stated, I don't know who didn't listen yesterday, clearly said their proposal. So, clearly speaking, and no one reacted, no one reacted. So they heard the proposal, it's not decided, it's not voted, it's known that today can be proposed and it will vote. So, everybody can, I don't understand a thing. So it's not true that everyone didn't know about the proposal and that they couldn't react if they had the need, but I don't completely understand what they weren't responding to. They have a chance today to change this decision and propose someone else. It's about the decision on the Expansive College. As for these stories and I agree with them – here I fully understand Mr. Novaković, he is an old MP in two terms – Mr. Okolić came yesterday, he visited all of Europe, and Mr. Novaković is here. Mr. Okolić is also the President of the Commission, and I have a problem with having five members from the club: no one is the chairman of the commission. And as they say from the opposition, the President of the Commission, and here, that is the problem, and I agree that it should be seen how it is, but once we open the debate. So, there is, there is a problem. If Mr. Okolić meant it, I think you've got two lines that you don't have anymore. Well, I took care of it because I have to take care of it. If you were thinking yesterday, these, a colleague of Azra, and I cursed myself as I entered the story and the decision about the Ombudsman, where we heard 26 people, two days from 8 to 16 hours, which you don't have to respect, here you can turn all that effort, you have the right to choose, I don't know who. I mean, if that's how we want to talk real, because I am for opening the debate here and who's working and who's not working, I am for it. I've swallowed the story, Mr. Okolić, I've swallowed the story where you've raised all the public to the RS if I've sold it, betrayed the RS police, and now you'd be on the board. I don't mind, find the majority for that story, so be it, you have the right to a proposal and the rest, I mean, if we want to be fair and respect each other in these relationships, I guess most people here are going to choose that story. And we shouldn't be twisting things the way they're not. I appreciate that there's a part of the people here who are making a lot of effort and effort and who spend a lot of time and whatever party they belong to and who... Indeed, I would be an incorrect man too if I said that those people from other initiatives are here. One part of people work here and works a lot – Šefik, I'm looking at you by accident – but I think you belong to those people who do a lot of work, regardless of what someone will interpret you doing from other initiatives like me or anyone else, but that's their right, that's their right. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I can't think of anything. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19031	Dear Representative Križanović: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19032	So what would the opposition serve if I retired? Well, they have a right to rebel, so we're not doing that, we're just doing it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19033	Dear Representative Križanović: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19034	Thank you. Well, here's really what we've spent this much time on this story, but obviously, it's pretty obvious that what's the problem, which is quiet, somehow has to come out, is, well... here. I want to say again, I don't know, here are some colleagues who have been to the Expansive College saying that this proposal was made at the Expansive College, I haven't heard or seen it. I don't dispute the right to better prepare the session so that the College comes out with proposals, but correctly come up with this written proposal, in writing to know, to think about, let's see. And I'm not saying all this because of that to secure the SDP seat on those commissions, we're being kicked out at the constitutive session of this house from commissions that belonged to us legally under our rules of procedure, right? We're used to it, so we don't expect it. Nothing's changed, is it, but I'm talking about the right of a business statement if there's some legitimate proposal, and he's still published it on the Expansive College, which he didn't officially propose today so we can think about it before and determine ourselves. And here, I promise you I won't propose to anyone, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19035	Thank you. The next one applied for the replica, the esteemed representative of Okolić. And I think it's done with replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19036	Look, there seems to be nothing good to say here. I have indeed pointed out that the proposal is being taken into account in the future, since it has culminated in the proposal. So far, it's gone smooth and no one's even been in control, etc. I haven't called anyone, I don't know why some of them are here named, I haven't told you by name who was traveling, how many etc. Not how long it takes to travel. But I'm telling you, there's been a imbalance in all this, and if it's necessary, we'll ask to see how many trips anyone's traveled. And in the end, Mr. Kalabić, don't tell the truth, I haven't traveled anywhere yet at Parliament's expense. So, I haven't had any trips. It is, therefore, not true that I have visited half of Europe, had only three trips to other people's expense, so, outside of Parliament. And the fact that you recognized that you traveled a lot, you answered for the word. And I didn't allude here at all and say today. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19037	I beg you, I beg you, however, here I am trying to be tolerated both to you and to everyone, but if this has anything to do with selecting the Ad hoc commission, I would like you to explain it to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19038	Yeah, right. So here, let me finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19039	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19040	I wasn't here today against any proposed member, I wasn't against Kalabić, I wasn't against anyone by the Kolegijum. I think he did it, they had every right to suggest. But all I did was point out the facts, but the other thing I recognized, that's their thing, what I can do for them. So, I respect the Kolegijum proposal this time, I just told you about the next one.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19041	Thank you. Dear Representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19042	You see, I, I...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19043	Please don't get off the bench.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19044	I must say, I'm glad some colleagues are more in the air than on earth. And I don't mind. So, next session, maybe we'll keep in the air, who knows science is progressing, maybe we'll keep in the plane and the sessions, wouldn't be a miracle either. Please, no one, I did not slow down, Mr. Chairman, right to the Kolegijum to propose. So I didn't dispute that right, but you can't argue with me not to agree with the Kolegijum's proposal or to warn the Kolegijum of Practice which, in my deep conviction, is not good. Of course, it's logical, so you won't expect to criticize yourself, so I guess it makes sense that I'm criticizing you from the opposition, but you're criticizing yourself. And I don't see why, what's the problem with saying it's bad practice. I think it's bad practice. I don't think in the last year of the Kolegijum it was that kind of practice. And take the data and you can get the data, you can do an analysis, and you'll see it wasn't that practice. I didn't say anything else, and now I'm saying that with a little respect for all MPs, there would be no debate like this. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19045	Thank you. We'll consider the possibility... not to suggest in the future... to the College that possibility. Correction of the incorrect allegation: the esteemed second President Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19046	I think it's an incorrect assumption that this is a bad practice, because there's no practice here. They have the commitment that I have made here for what led me to make such a proposal. I completely agree with you that you could have said that it was not a good suggestion and made a second proposal. There's now an open story about practice and who's when and how long he's traveled. If we're gonna open all those questions, feel free to ask. We will also open these questions, but I am afraid that many of those who insist on it will find themselves in these issues and see that it was not exactly the same in the last term, and I am open to this story and I have only presented a legitimate reason as it has always been for the Kolegijum to propose to Parliament. My commitment to my proposal was that, you don't have to agree, but make a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19047	Thank you. Dear Representative Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19048	I'm really gonna be short. Given that this proposal on the appointment of this ad hoc commission has not been agreed between the position and the opposition, and that is the least of the problems, but the problem is that it is not even in line between the position and position. And that's a little bigger now. That is why I suggest you withdraw this proposal, call on the Extended College, try to come up with a solution, and not today to open a big debate, since there is no consensus here when it comes to these solutions, I repeat, it is seen from previous discussions, even within the parliamentary majority today in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19049	Thank you. The honourable representative, the distinguished representative Hadžiahmetović, was first, so I thought it was over.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19050	First, here is a proposal from counterpart Bećirović to withdraw this proposal and during the discussion on several occasions it was doubtful whether it was on the proposal and the Extended College, etc. I am asking the College not to withdraw this proposal, as well as to beg not to take this practice by any chance, we also had a chance at the College, and then at the Enlarged College to hear the proposal with arguments from 84 Colleges of the House, members of the Commission, so on a proposal from the College of the Defence and Security Commission, etc. I appreciate some place suggesting someone else, etc. which is legitimately right here, which we will plead to, but stories of this kind that it wasn't on an extended college, to come back, etc. And we're too familiar with the background. I'm asking you to declare it 17.45. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19051	Dear Representative Bahtić has come forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19052	He's giving up.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19053	Dear Representative Zorić reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19054	Well, I have a need to say something. Here, I was asked by my colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović. Mr. Raguž's proposal just came from the proposal of those two famous laws when we had three times two proposals per 127. And it was precisely the proposal of President Lozančić that the Ad hoc commission for these two things would be members of the Defence and Security Commission. And that's Mr. Raguž's suggestion. It's nothing else. .... He supports that proposal the chairman released was in parliamentary procedure and there is nothing else there. Because we also expect Mr. Zno or Mr. Jović to be from the House of Peoples. From the Joint Defence and Security Commission, nothing else. So, that's correctness, and if, if it was on an extended college yesterday, without Mr. Raguž, he would have told that same story yesterday instead of today. I mean, there's no conflict here right now, no intention whatsoever, except that we think it should be on this committee, on the Ad hoc Commission of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19055	I thank the honourable representative. And I find it's 17.45 minutes and we've exhausted the points from 1st to 8th, and from 15th to 17th, at the conclusion of 6:00 p.m. At 6 p.m., please be in the hall in order to be able to make a timely statement on the completion of the agenda. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats, concentrate well and prepare for decision-making. The first point on which we will declare is the second item of today's agenda: Confirmation of the Council of Ministers' Decision on the resolution of Sven Alkalaj, Senad Šepić, Igor Crnadko. The vote for the decision means shift. The vote against the Decision means that the decision has not been confirmed. 85 Please prepare. The proposal of the Honorable Representative Ivanković is: A statement on the Council of Ministers' decision on the resolution of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs and Deputy Minister of Defence for Politics and Planning shall be postponed on a 90-day period and a resolution group shall be tasked with preparing amendments and supplementing the Law on Conflict of Interest where these examples will not be... in conflict of interest within a time period which will allow their adoption before the 90-day deadline. Here, we need to make a statement first on the proposal for a conclusion. Prepare to vote and vote now. “For” Proposal four, “against” 19, “abstained” 13. The proposal for a conclusion was not accepted. We're going to make a statement on the decision. Please prepare and vote now. ‘For’ Proposed Decision nine, ‘against’ 22, ‘restricted’ six. I find that the proposal for a decision has not been confirmed, i.e. this decision has not been confirmed. We move on to a statement on: The request of Mr. Momčilo Novaković to consider the amendment law proposal and amendments to the law on value added tax under the reduced procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 16 votes "yes", 18 "against", three "abstained", I find that the request is not accepted and the law goes into regular procedure. Moving to point 4. Proposal for a framework law on secondary vocational education and training in BiH. We have amendments. Amendment of Honorable Representative Vink Zorić. Please prepare, Amendment I. Vote now. With 24 votes "yes", eight "against", five "abstained", I find that this amendment by the respected representative Zorić has been accepted. We move on to a statement: on amendments to the distinguished representative Novaković. Amendment I.. moliti prepare for your vote. Vote now! Three votes "for", 20 "against", 14 "abstained". 86 Amendment I is not accepted. amandman II. Please prepare for the vote and vote now. Two votes "yes", 20 "against", 15 abstentions. amandman II. not accepted. We move to the Declaration on amandman III.. Prepare and vote now. Two votes "yes", 19 "against", 16 "abstained". amandman III.. not accepted. We move on to the Declaration on amandman iv.e. Vote now! With three votes "for", 19 "against", 15 "abstained", amandman iv.e. not accepted. And let's move to a statement on amandman v. moliti prepare for your vote. Vote now! With three votes "yes",...19 "against", 13 "abstained", I find that amandman v. is not accepted. As we have completed our statement on the amendments, we move to a statement on the proposal for a framework law on secondary vocational education and training in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the amendment adopted and the report of the competent commission. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 32 votes "yes", two "against" and three "abstained", I conclude that the proposal for a framework law on secondary vocational education and training in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted. We move on to a statement on item 5 of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here we have six amendments to the honourable representative of Šemsudin Mehmedović. We move to a statement on amandman I.. moliti prepare for the vote and vote now. 87 11 votes "for", 18 "against", eight "abstained". I find that amandman I. is not accepted. We move on to the Declaration on amandman II.. Please prepare for the vote and vote now. 12 votes "for", 18 "against" seven "abstained". I find that amandman II.. not accepted. We move to the Declaration on amandman III.. Prepare to vote and vote now. 13 votes "for", 17 votes "against", seven "abstained". I find that amandman III.. not accepted. We move on to the Declaration on amandman iv.e. Prepare to vote and vote now. With 12 votes "for", 15 "against" and eight "abstained", I find that amandman iv.e. not accepted. We move to a statement on amandman v. Prepare to vote and vote now. 11 votes “for, ” 14“ against, ” six“ abstentions. ” I also find that amandman v. has not been accepted. And we move on to the Declaration on amandman vi. Prepare to vote and vote now on amandman VI. 10 votes "for", 16 "against", seven abstentions. I find that it's not amandman vi. not accepted. We move on to a statement on the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange between Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 32 votes "yes", one "against" and four "abstained", I agree that the proposal for a law on the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted. 88 We move to the declaration of point 6. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We don't have any amendments. So we're pleading on the bill. Prepare and vote now. With 36 votes "yes", without votes "against", one "abstained", I agree that we have adopted the Amendments and Supplements Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We move to a statement on item 7 of the established agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 32 votes "yes", without votes "against", five "abstained", I find that the bill was adopted in the first reading. In addition to this item of the agenda, we also have a proposal for Dr. Milorad Živković's conclusion: The BiH Justice Ministry is tasked with reviewing its decisions so far on the signing of the association and foundations in the BiH Registry, bringing them in line with this law after it is passed. Please prepare to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Vote now! With 20 votes "yes", 11 "against" and one "abstained", with an insufficient entity majority from the Federation, the College reached agreement and the proposal for a conclusion was accepted. We move on to the declaration of point 8. Proposal for a law on border control, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee. I remind you that we are deciding on the Joint Committee's opinion. If the House adopts the negative opinion of this committee, the proposed law is considered rejected, if the House does not accept the opinion of the Joint Committee, the House asks this committee to draw up new opinions based on new guidelines set by the House and within the time limit it sets. So we're pleading on the Joint Committee's report. Please prepare to plead. Vote now! With 12 votes "yes", 24 "against", one "abstained", I find that the Joint Commission Report is not accepted. 89 And according to our Rules of Procedure, and we have also had a proposal, so the proposal is to return the report to the Committee for Cooperation, to the Commission, in cooperation with the Ministry of Security and other interested, to the House after agreeing on this law. Eh, now we're going to a statement on point 15. The appointment of three representatives of the House of Representatives in the Ad hoc Committee for the Implementation of the Appointing Procedure: (a) The Independent Committee as an independent body of the BiH Police Structure, (b) the Committee on Appeals of Citizens as an independent body of the BiH Police Structure. We have a proposal for four candidates: Adem Huskić, Velimir Jukić, Drago Kalabić and Vinko Zorić. Since we have more than... Dear representative Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19057	...where some and valid arguments have been made, principled advocates for some solutions that I too can accept. However, in order for me to make my contribution to this job to be better done, I am giving up my candidacy, but I will also follow how much we will continue our work to stick to some of the principled attitudes that have been expressed here today, not to repeat them now. Whether it's desirable to be represented, I don't know either, and MPs, and clubs, and peoples, etc. to take care of who is where, how much travel, how much walk, who is in which commission, etc. I expect we're really holding on to it in the future, and I'm giving up to make it easier.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-04-1.u19058	I thank the esteemed representative Jukić. Since we have in this case now, after giving up Mr. Jukić, only three names, I suggest that these, this commission, be appointed in the package, mean everyone together. Is there any need to make a statement to the House about it? There isn't. We're going to make a statement on the proposal. It means that in the Ad hoc commission the representatives of Adem Huskić, Drago Kalabić and Vinko Zorić are named. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 31 votes "yes", three "against" and three "abstained", I find that we have appointed an Ad hoc commission in the composition I just read. We move to 16th point: Proposal for a Club of Representatives of the U.S.A. for changes in the membership of the Interparliamentary Friendship Group. 90 You've already heard the proposal before, and I suggest we make a statement about a complete, complete proposal, so. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 33 votes "yes", without votes "against", four "abstained", I find that we have accepted the SDA's proposal to change the membership of an interparliamentary group of friendships. We move to a statement on the 17th point of the established agenda: Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Macedonia on cooperation in the fight against terrorism, organised crime, illegal drug trafficking, psychotropic substances and precurrencies, illegal migration and other criminal acts, (b) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on readmission (readmission) persons who are illegally staying, (c) Framework Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Communities on the rules of cooperation relating to the financial support of the EC BiH as part of the implementation of aid instruments for pre-accession assistance (IPA), (d) Two-year agreement between (BCA) BiH and the Regional Office of the World Health Organisation for Europe 2008/2009, e) Budapest Agreement on the international recognition of the deposit of micro-organisms through the patenting procedure, f) the application of the principles of their international registration of the rules and the rules of the EU's legislation, the law of the European law. I suggest that all of these sub-points be declared in the package, but before that, we ask that the House declare itself on this proposal. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 36 votes "for", one "against", I find that dom has accepted this proposal. Now we move on to a statement on the whole agenda point. Please prepare to plead. Vote now! 91 With 35 votes "yes", without the votes "against" and "abstained", I find that we have accepted all the sub-points under point 17. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before this session is concluded, I would like to thank you for your constructive work during today's day, and I would like to inform you that the signing of the Stabilisation of Resuscitation Agreement is expected on the 16th of this month. We have taken the obligation, the College of this House has made a commitment to ensure that the session is scheduled between 16th and 20th of this month, and after the relevant institutions and the Bureau and the Council of Ministers have prepared this and, possibly, some other agreement for that session, so expect between 16th and 20th session appointments, possibly within shorter deadlines than these usual deadlines. On the sequel, about the appointment of the next regular session... House of Representatives, you will be informed in good time and the remaining agenda points from this session will be included within that session. I am concluding the work of the 30th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives. The seat's finished at 6:30.
