ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2326	Please take your seats, we should start with the 18th session. Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers, the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 18th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There are 11 delegates present, four of them from the Bosniak people, four from the ranks of Croatia and three from the Serb people. Mrs. Hazim Rančić, Slobodan Šaraba, Božo Rajić and Zoran Koprivica are rightly absent because they are on official duty at home. For the 18th session, I propose a harmonised agenda of the presidency, which you have received plus another item of the agenda, which is: 'An initiative to address the issues of decertified police officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina', which we have received from the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics. As this is a harmonised agenda, I move to the 1st point of the agenda: Ad. 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions Answers to the delegate's questions were received by delegate Zoran Koprivica, who answered the asked question from the 14th and 15th meetings of the People's House; Ilija Filipović asked questions at the 15th and 16th sessions; Adem Ibrahimpašić asked questions at the 14th session; Mladen Ivanić asked questions at the 15th session; Dušanka Majkić asked questions at the 15th session; Ivo Miro Jović asked questions at the 11th session; Slobodan Šaraba asked questions at the 12th session. I should now ask each of the delegates if he's satisfied with the answer to the question. Mr. Koprivica isn't here, so I can't even ask him. He had two questions. 2 Next, is delegate Ilija Filipović satisfied with the answer to a question from the 15th session of the House of Peoples? Mr Filipović, please. You have two... questions, if you can answer immediately.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2328	Very short. I'm partially satisfied, but I'm not happy with being in charge, therefore, which is not prescribed for the resolution ministry. Since we had here an act which the Ministry of Resort in order to implement the Framework Law on Higher Education has joined, therefore, to fill certain bodies and then to include in its act this Ministry of Education which is not, which this law on higher education, the Framework Law on Higher Education does not know at all. It is therefore not appropriate to act in any way, let alone propose or establish candidates in order to implement or implement the Framework Law on Higher Education. That is why the section that avoids the Federation Constitution and the constitutions of the counties, i.e. the canton, the education ministry, includes this Ministry of the Federation, the BiH Ministry of Education. So, in that part, I am absolutely not satisfied and I think that the Ministry of Civil Affairs must respect the constitutional order of BiH and not give jurisdiction to this ministry that has no relevance to education policy when it comes to...... County, or cantons in the Federation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2329	Okay. Is delegate Adem Ibrahimpašić satisfied with the answer to the question from the 14th session of the House of Peoples?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2330	And now it's groundless. Let me remind you, it was an attempt to amend the Customs Tariff Act. Now he's the force of this agreement that was signed yesterday changed one way or the other, so he's been pretty hidden practically in the Directorate of Direct Taxation.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2331	Okay, thank you very much. Is delegate Mladen Ivanić satisfied with the answer to the 15th session question?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2332	My question referred to the Council of Ministers. Since it was that the Council of Ministers had committed itself to the conclusion of the House of Representatives that by 15. 2. come up with an analysis of the effects of possible introduction of a double VAT rate, as well as talks on a programme for the protection of socially endangered 3 categories of population, and my question was: Was this programme delayed and would it include the introduction of two rates? Instead of the Council of Ministers, I have received an answer from the Administration for indirect taxation which, again, in its good old style says that it is not in charge of the social programme, which I know, as I know, that two rates are not the basis for protecting the population, that it would be good to introduce a special programme and direct contributions from the budget to socially endangered categories of population. That lecture we've had the opportunity to hear more than once, but there's no answer to what I asked. And that is: will there or will there be no social programme, instead of introducing two steps and, if there is no social programme, will we finally get the effects of introducing two feet? I didn't get an answer from the Council of Ministers. I repeat my question again. It's either one or the other. If neither is there, let the Council of Ministers say: there will be no social programme and there will be no introduction of two steps. Well, at least we know what we're on, and it's not like this, it's just some kind of pee-peer where there's really no answer at all... to my questions. So, I repeat the question and you will get it in writing: - Will there be a programme to protect the socially endangered categories of population or will there be lower rates in the opinion of the Council of Ministers and when will we finally get the effects of positive or negative? But some of the effects of introducing two rates of VAT... which is mandatory during the debate on the bill proposal that I, along with MP Dokić, had proposed at the end of last year.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2333	Okay, thank you. Whether delegate Dušanka Majkić is satisfied with the answer to a question from the 15th session of the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2334	I must say, unfortunately, that most of the answers I received were already known to me before I asked this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2335	Okay. Is Ivo Miro Jović satisfied with the answer to the question from the 11th session of the House of Peoples? Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2336	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It doesn't change anything I say today, so I'm gonna lose my comment. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2337	Is Mr. Slobodan Šaraba? He's not here. There's another Sulejman Tihić here. I stayed... I was obliged from last session to declare whether I was satisfied with the answer to the asked question from the 15th session of the House of Peoples. Well, here's what I'm gonna say. I don't know how much anyone remembers, I asked the question: Why is there no sign of "Welcome to Bosnia and Herzegovina" at the border crossings in BiH? I've been given an answer here to the question that it's not supposed to be prescribed by the rules that regulate that matter. However, they believe that they support the idea, that financing purchases and setting such tables should be carried out by the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport as prescribed by Article 16(2) of the Law on the Control and Control of the Crossing of the State Border. So, let me put it this way: I am partially satisfied, because the Border Police believe that this should be asked... by transferring this job to others, this ministry... and it is obvious that it will be necessary to ask a question and direct activities towards the Council of Ministers towards resolving this problem. So here I am partially satisfied. We're moving on to, uh, any new delegate issues, I'm sorry. There's Mrs. Majkić. I see here in writing you've given one question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2338	Yeah. Well, we were told to forward the questions. So my question is addressed to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers Act in Article 6 stands - the overall composition of the Council of Ministers will be complete throughout the term of office in accordance with the Constitution of BiH, particularly with its members V 4.b) and IX 3., and will ensure equal representation of the constituent peoples of BiH in line with the Council of Ministers. Article 8 of the same law states - except for the minister, who is responsible for the work of the ministry as a whole and the deputy minister with the rights and duties of the previous member of this law, each ministry has a secretary of the ministry who performs the tasks and tasks set out in the Law on State Service in BiH's institutions whose appointment is carried out in accordance with the provisions of this law and with respect to the principles contained in Article 6 of this Law. So, ensuring equal representation of the people. The Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Justice are the two only ministries in the Council of Ministers in which the minister, deputy minister and secretary do not originate from all three constituent nations. Both ministries represent one representative of the Croatian people and two representatives of the Bosniak people each. So there are no representatives of the Serbian people. Given the apparent discrimination of the Serbian people in these two ministries, I would ask the Council of Ministers to answer my questions: 1. When will the national balance be carried out in those positions at the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Justice? 5 2. What is the national composition of all 12 organisational units of the Ministry of Security? Specify all job names, as well as qualifications and national structure by job. 3. What is the national composition of all nine organizations of the Justice Department? Specify all job names, as well as qualifications and national structure by job. I beg your answer on the written path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2339	Okay, thank you. Does anyone else have any delegate questions? I also find that the debate on this agenda item is closed. We're going to the second item of the agenda: Ad. 2. Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. The House of Representatives passed a law with eight amendments. You've reached the committee's report. The Commission adopted eight amendments that have become an integral part of the text of the law. There were no new amendments. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? Since no one's answering for a word, we approach the vote. I find that this law was passed in the same text as the House of Representatives, unanimously. I'm going to the third item of the agenda: Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Number Act (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2345	Just one question. We're today, I haven't had a good time to check it out, get a letter from a seminar of lawyers, judges and prosecutors in which we're being warned of some subsequent legal remedy, so I'd like to, if we didn't have a chance, delegates of others to get it, it came to the College to eventually see if there's anything that has consequences to this and that... There isn't, is there? Erased already, so then okay, well, then nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2346	Okay, we can vote. 8 I find that this law was adopted unanimously in the text as in the House of Representatives... Moving to the 7th point of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a bill on salaries and fees in BiH institutions (second reading) - Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. The House of Representatives passed this law with 18 amendments. You've reached the committee's report. The Commission adopted 18 amendments that are identical to the amendments to the House of Representatives. New amendments were submitted by delegates Alma Čolo and Hazim Rančić. I'm opening a debate. Do the... amendment promoters have anything to say? Here comes Mrs. Majkić's first call.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2348	So, after a lot of stories, a lot of interpretations, a lot of comments, and after this country's Parliament finally gets kicked out of the law, because it doesn't deserve to be, so the public has estimated that this country's Parliament doesn't deserve to be covered by the Law of Salaries, we can now talk more rationally about others now that we're not here. I never thought I'd be in a position to belong to that group that shouldn't be done, done in accordance with the law, and I never thought I'd have to read and listen to so many comments that came to this country's Parliament. And indeed, as a man, I object to myself and detest myself, because I have tried to do all the time in my past and present term with my work to justify the trust of the people... that I am here for. And I think that in every act I have tried to justify that the work of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly is not easy, especially as it is so few people who need to carry a burden in this country that is still legally uncircumcised, constitutionally uncircumcised republics, European integrations, and I find it really hard to talk about this. I want more, especially before I say my final position. I would like to read to you briefly a short few lines of a young woman who works somewhere in the BiH institution, and she addressed it by e-mail, and not only to me, it was sent to Mr. Mladen Ivanić and Mr. Vinko Zorić, Ivo Miri Jović, Azra Hadžiahmetović and Sadik Ahmetović, as MPs and delegates. And the letter says, I'm not going to say her name, so a woman doesn't have any problems, but it should be heard, "I work as an expert associate in one of the state ministries. My salary is 768 marks and a warm meal of 200 marks, and so is the last three or four years. My husband does the same with a VSS with a salary of nearly 1,000 marks. We have an apartment loan whose war is 700 marks for 9 15 years. We've got two kids for whom we pay for kindergarten twice 150 marks. The fact that Parliamentarians, ministers, generals and ourselves have overestimated the coefficient so much, we now suffer from ourselves, low-level civil servants, who in practice are most busy, and who are doing the preparation for the meetings that we write to, to which we translate each case and do a report on their work. We're the victims of a system. We've been buried and buried daily. We've been humiliated so much that the PKK's night shift driver in the company... has a salary of 1300 marks, that people who do the same kind of work at federal level now have our double salary, that a teacher in every village with two years of pedagogue has 1200 marks, that a waiter at Ferhadia has 800 marks, that nurses have a higher salary than we do. That's the state, that's the pay. I'm 33 years old, VSS, I speak English, I'm informational written, just like my husband, and obviously this is an exorcism from the country because there's no way to survive like this. So what do you need to do, deal with crime or leave the country!? We only have two options. Please, promise us finally these salaries, adopt that law with these more categories, too, to discuss them in particular. They certainly don't feel this crisis, so this is why all this is taking hold of us, because everyone is rushing and arriving on vacation, and for us vacation in these circumstances is a mental noun." So I purposely read this letter that is related to one conclusion that I will give later. So our Finance and Budget Commission adopted amendments identical to the House of Representatives. Our commission... has not adopted one conclusion left to decide on in the House itself, I will run for it to be the conclusion that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges the Council of Ministers to draw up a draft law on salaries and other fees in BiH-level judicial and prosecutorial institutions within 60 days of this conclusion and deliver it to parliamentary procedure. So we got them out, too, but we're going to cover them with a new law. And another conclusion which would be a small fee to this lady who sent me this letter, but also where a mistake may have been made to certain categories of people, and that conclusion would formulate: 'that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges the Council of Ministers to make a more detailed analysis of and supplement the measures and additions of that law within six months of the implementation of the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH'.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2349	Okay, thank you very much. Mrs Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2350	Here, given that only amendments from Mr Hazim Rančić and I are here today in front of MPs, we had an obligation, given that in the previous phase we submitted 15 amendments submitted by the SDA in the House of Representatives; these 15 amendments concerned the reduction of salaries to appointed persons in the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, as well... on the increase of salaries to professional military officials and police officers. We have also proposed an increase in salaries for BiH institutions, in all BiH institutions, these are those with medium professional training and higher expertise, as some estimates have found that these employees in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly with the application of these new coefficients would have a significant reduction... of salaries. Of course the MPs in the House of Representatives... although their amendments have not passed, the MPs of the SDA, that is, their amendments have not passed, have again submitted these amendments to the competent commission, and we have taken that obligation, Mr Rančić and I, to re-present these amendments to the House. It means that within the legal period in accordance with the Rules of Procedure... we propose to adopt them to this home, by changing the amendment relating to the employees of BiH institutions, and is our amandman XI.. It was once said that the Home College agreed that employees of BiH institutions would go to a certain salary increase so that their salaries would not be reduced through the application of this law and I made the amendment in line with the employee's request. Here we hear today... that the Ministry of Finance argues that these are significant funds for 2,500 employees in BiH institutions and that such an amendment could not be supported. I will, of course, stay with this amendment, because other people, especially from the College, have suggested that I submit such an amendment. So I didn't self-initiately submit it and they told me it was arranged, so I'm staying with this amendment today. And I want to make my point when it comes to the adoption of the Payments Act. I think it is the release of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, i.e. excluding our salaries from this law wrongly, because I thought from the beginning that it was the basic purpose of the law to sort out the issue of employees in BiH institutions in a systematic way. All budget users to define this law and means everything financed from the BiH budget to be uniformly legally resolved. We now have a situation that MPs are excluded, because the media hack was such a... We have proposed that these coefficients be lower, it is not accepted and MPs are now excluded and can really not reconcile that 57 BiH MPs and the smallest parliament in the region, Parliament expecting significant jobs, implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement!, believe me, the Croatian Parliament has had seven-day meetings to pass its laws in order to comply with the acquis communautaire, so I think..., what awaits us in the next period certainly does not deserve someone from this law to abandon us, but so some people in this Parliament agreed. And believe me, I'm making my differences publicly.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2351	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Ilija Filipović answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2352	Thank you very much for your word, Chairman. 11 So, very briefly, I will just not repeat all that my colleagues have said in relation to this case, when we are now in the House of Peoples of the Bill of Salary and Compensation: that all BiH institutions are covered in this law, except for the largest legislative body in this country that makes laws for all. So, both associations and fish and bees, so simply under the pressure of the players, tambours and other orchestras in front of this building that did it. So, this is an example that should not be an example of other countries in the environment, other parliaments, for the opposition to create such a harangus together with public broadcasters who thus supported them without any argument, not taking into account that this is the BiH state parliament, not the advice of a local community. If someone thinks this country can function as a local community, then they don't think well of themselves or the citizens of this... state. The pressure is embarrassing, I feel humiliated that he has been thrown out, so the parliamentarian from one of this law, which was first systematically made and included in this country, so here we now see with certain mistakes, all workers and employees in BiH institutions as if parliamentarians were not an integral part of the state of BiH but are some kind of extra-categories that should continue to be accounted for in the Council of Ministers through the Joint Administrative Commission, etc. I would not spend time on this, but I feel humiliated as a parliamentarian, because I cannot forgive the House of Representatives, nor can I forgive colleagues who have not realized that yesterday this parliament is in such a responsible role and function in relation to the signed Stabilisation and Association Agreement in relation to the time ahead, in relation to... the wishes and objectives of the BiH tasked, therefore, we have heard that all the legislation of this country is in line with the acquis communautaire that we simply have rules of play and behaviour as well as other countries if we want to be an integral part of the EU family, regulated democratic states in Europe. So that's why I think that... we should share the mutual dissatisfaction that this act happened thanks to fellow MPs sitting in the House of Representatives. I have talked with many who have also voted against the law, who have been in favour of not finding parliament in that law under the pressure of the street, under the pressure of opposition. So this is a unique example that must never be repeated again that our opposition dictates that the parliamentary majority will work for us. The parliamentary majority has been tasked and it is a disgrace to this parliament, a disgrace to this state that only parliamentarys are treated as Mojicans in this country compared to this law. What Mrs Alma said was that I was the one who, with all my heart, put out an initiative to correct the position of the tenants in this law, regardless of this anger that I just told you, but I couldn't speak without saying what I said earlier. So, honestly, I lobbyed and lobbied, so to speak. So it didn't take much time... because when I came, after a session of the House of Representatives when this Law of Salutations was adopted, in the House of Peoples, I was ashamed to look at the offices crying to the tenants. They cry, they pay less than 30, 50, someone 150, then 200 KM, that's what they tell me. At the same time, therefore, I did not know any other solution but prayed, as the Bosniak Club renewed the amendments, so it was only possible to approach, through the renewed amendments, an attempt to correct that injustice, which was observed by simulating the multiple coefficient with the basis that is assumed. I was simply happy to see that correction happen today. Today, while waiting for a quorum for our work, I received a call from two places, one from international institutions, the other from the resolute ministry that proposed this law and roughly came down to this (that includes this correction of this amendment, which was renewed by Mrs. Čolo, therefore, which did not mention my name, but I talked to her, I asked her to sit down with the tenants to come to some sort of solution; it came to him, the amendment was made before us,... however), we were told that this violates the overall system and concept of this law, because it includes these amendments over 2.5 thousand people who are in the system, so the employees of the BiH institutions, and that it simply stops with these amendments, that we try to get the power that came from the House of Representatives, and that nothing else we give to the Council of Ministers to emulate, so that the application of this law, in fact, in the first few months, this regard to the Ministers to the need to the need to adopt the law. So as not to make mistakes towards others, so as not to get too much, and someone less than he has today and that, I believe by then, from the fichet and from the fiche of the Joint Administrative Commission, Parliament is also found in that law. Because if anyone thinks they can compare Parliamentarian to norms, let me forgive the rickety Alija Sirotanović, so it won't work anymore. parlamentarac should be compared to what is before them, what is their responsibility with the parliaments of other Southeast European countries and those parliaments where we want to enter, to be. We were told yesterday: Congratulations, you are 28 members of the EU! So they already see us there. It is our way to travel to that act when all chapters will be done, so we will be accepted into that company. But remember, this job will go beyond three institutions in this country: the BiH Presidency that is positioned in an adequate way, so far I mean in relation to... what they are doing; through Parliament as the largest legislative body in this country; through the Council of Ministers and all worms who still need to be examples of the Council of Ministers getting the right capacity of staff, accommodation and others, so that they can execute and adopt here over a hundred thousand pages of new laws, recommendations and various directives. I'm looking forward to this job, but I'll be glad when those who think they can try and stop the process in this country. It won't stop the process, there won't be no MPs without pay, I'm open here saying it. There is a Joint Administrative Commission, there are identified coefficients which are not different from what the Council of Ministers has proposed. The basis will be established, parliamentarians will have their salary. But we do regret the fact that we're out of the machine. So we had to be in this joint reading called the Law on Payments and Refunds of all users of the state budget. We do not use the budget of another country but BiH and we want to be, we want to be in that law. It must also be understood by the opposition, no matter how bitterly advocated it comes to power. Let them be patient, let them wait ten months 2010, the general elections, let them say what they did other than the Haranga and the vote against the reform laws that put us in a position to have a signed Stabilisation and Association Agreement yesterday. In the end, I would ask my colleagues here, colleagues from the Bosniak Club, I know they will not give up their amendments, but to accept the suggestions that we have received, therefore, from international circles that monitor our consumption in total and from the resolution ministry that we do not go beyond the framework adopted by the House of Representatives today. So let's not go with the new amendments, let's not accept the new amendments! Thank you very much. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2353	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Mladen Ivanić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2354	This law is certainly a law that will cause different comments whenever it is passed. But it's a big deal that this country finally has one law in which it regulates relations within the entire state structure, that it knows exactly how much it has to pay and that it's public, transparent, that in one place decisions are made, not at fifteen places, and that, then, we have various competitions between independent institutions, let's call them what our independence measures primarily at pay level. So, I believe that the adoption of this law was extremely important and I would also like to publicly praise the Council of Ministers for making a determination to pass this law and to stand behind it. However, they have, there are several things I personally think that in this law they remain undefined and will produce certain... problems. I think it is absolutely unnecessary that the MPs and Parliament have escaped from this law and I think that it is a little bit and hypocrisy of the House of Representatives because it will be the same thing that was planned only that it will not be through the law. And, right to tell you, I really don't think it's good and, if it's possible, I think the Joint College should sit down and return this law to Parliament in a relatively short time, because it should be in this law. It is a political demagogue that everyone remains in law except for Parliament. I really don't think that makes any sense, and here's the conclusion that we're going to make a commitment to whether within six months, when otherwise the Council of Ministers will have to come out with an assessment of the application of this law, or sooner to do so. Well, we are the subject of criticism and we will always be the subject of public criticism and will not criticize the public by turning ourselves off, and then doing the same through a session of the Administrative Commission. I think it should have had the courage to end it without any false, I don't know, I don't know what I'd call it. But, well, that's what happened, so we don't put the law at risk now, that's the part we accept. But let us ourselves be obliged to conclude that, as a Joint College within six months, it must provide for amendments to the law and that Parliament is also contained in this law. The second weakness of this law, which I really think exists, is an incorrect attitude towards the tenants and the medium professional preparation. They're the only ones who get paid. Now, we've found where we're going to save! We have indeed found all together where we're going to save, and I don't think that's good, and I think that, if I have any intention of staying with that law because it's about the amendment of that part to support their... position, because I don't think the budget will break on the middle of the store and those people who only, as far as I've got the information, I'd like to be corrected, that if I got the information wrong, if the coefficients were applied now -- that their wages would only burn. 14 The third thing that I think is that there is a small problem in the law is too much difference between high-skillers with special powers and referencing. A thousand and some marks are too big, 1,300 appears to me to be marks, when applied is too much difference for the same level of education and I think it's still unnecessary and unnecessary... big. And the fourth thing I think could be fixed is the question and position of counselors in various places. The advisers are people who have been elected, who have no job security, who are there while the ministers, while the chairman of the homes, are members of the Presidency, who are subject to conflict of interest, as are all elected officials. I think their position relative to some other positions here is undeservedly low and I think it should have been treated a little more adequately. That's my four remarks. Since we have, as far as I understand, only one amendment that partially fills this out, I have to say that I am convinced that those from the mid-cap will not bring down the budget. And I'm willing to hear the Secretary of Finance's arguments... in that context, but if, because I really don't think it would be good to punish those people alone. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2355	Okay, thank you very much. Anyone else answer for a word? Adem Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2356	I'd just like to say that at first this went nahero. And to Filipović, don't be mad at the opposition, you've had enough hands to vote this, it's not the opposition's fault. So many times in my life, I've been able to do what you've done. I've never cut anyone's salary once. I started with what's there, so he ordered, did he, uh... by the hierarchy to the top. If I didn't have enough money to cover it up, I waited until I had enough money to do it, so when I did, if I didn't have enough money at some point, then it goes down to everyone. And I think it was done here, I totally agree with Ivanić, one mistake that could be corrected by this amendment. And don't make us believe that the budget won't take it. I already figured it out in my head, it's small money. And as for those international circles, they assured me that if we adopted that old foreign exchange law and we took off from 13, I don't know, for 9, 10 years, that the country would fail. So I don't respect those arguments and I can't swallow them. Therefore, I will vote... for this amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2357	Okay, thank you. Branko Zrno.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2358	Mr. President, I've been in touch a long time, second. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2359	I'm sorry, I'm not here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2360	But a little bit, you overlooked it a little bit, it doesn't matter. So now I have very little to say about what, you know, those who catch the kidnapping of the one who's a little bit, maybe harder to think.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2361	I'm sorry, I didn't really see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2362	...but first I answered the line, and then I applied for the discussion. I don't have much... to say, everything is mostly said. I was just thinking of my colleagues and Mrs. Majkić and my dear colleague... Alma tell... that the public, you'll forgive, so someone said hickey, someone said haranga, someone said persecution, someone said what in, I'd say, normal democratic environments and couldn't happen, not alluding absolutely to anyone's control, but to the simple professionality and consciousness of people about what they write about. The most important news must answer the questions: who, what, where, when, how and why. Everything that has appeared in the media and that has been placed has not answered any of these questions. And I see it that way. There are too many problems in this country that the problem of salary is fifty and, how many, seven representatives of the smallest European Parliament would be the problem of this country, its problem, the fiscal problem, will collapse, fall. Absolutely not. But I'm saying, let's leave the media there to do their job, sometimes for joy, but very often, unfortunately, all of us, because they need to deal with the situation in their house. When he's out of his yard, the street's all messed up. As long as it's not like that, it's dirty both the yard and the street. But that's also a replica, in the sense that because we've been kicked out of law enforcement, we're carrying direct guilt, we who started to politically manipulate, which we first began to calculate, then we began to politically manipulate literally. We've turned into what we're not. One story we tell at the table, another story we tell in Parliament. When we're four, we all vote for one, when we sit here and we're separated by these headphones, then everyone has their own truth, everyone has their own story, and everyone probably has their tenth this month and 2010! I don't blame the opposition personally, I don't blame her because she forced us to tell a story instead of us putting a story on her, man. The opposition today has billions of state assets, what all citizens of this country have created, they have today, they collect taxes, they collect rents, they issue business premises etc., etc. We have a six-year chance to impose that story, now we've finally asked a question and, look, no one's negatively answering the question. Everyone logically accepts the question. What's that? I didn't... I didn't create anything! How? I was born in '98, thank Bog. Where did that part of my salary go? They asked me what was being built and what was being taken from me. But let's leave that too. I don't blame the opposition. I blame us. But it's also grief. I'm actually asking a question, not now in the context of the law, about the law I might be talking about after the Minister of Finance. Because I respect too much of the profession and all the minister's explanation at the first sessions and the first discussions on the 16 proposals of this law I absolutely accepted. The man accepted our suggestions, but everything became a volcano afterwards. I therefore ask one other question: should the state in the administrative sense of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Let us definitely be told, if the BiH state doesn't need it, and I think that's what we are, is there no one else in this country. Let them say, if there is someone else, if it is not the Council of Ministers and if it is not Parliament - who is this state here? Do we need a state? If we don't need it, publicly, gentlemen, say it, we'll vote against this and all the other laws. I will not tell the story of our journey to Europe, Filipović told it. Bog forbid she's like that! However, the way we're being blackmailed, the way we're told about ourselves, I saw the Centre of Civil Initiatives last night, their reports on the work of the Council of Ministers, this Parliament, and they touched the Federation Parliament, I guess, the other part of the state is not interested. What's being followed? Am I the Centre of Civil Initiatives just interested in sitting here for two or three hours or two days? And I spend an average of 12 hours a day in Parliament. What am I doing? Is my job to take this material, not to open it, here to raise your hand, or to press "for" or "against". Are there any working bodies in this House, do these working bodies work? Who's estimating that? So if you're so unobstructed now directly, if you're so unobstructed, then be unobstructed and still, just consider everything we do or don't do. There's a report and for work, there's, I was just saying, there's a report and it's not working. Both. If they're good, if they're true and they're right, that's the problem. I repeat the question, and I will not repeat the question, I say, gentlemen, everything you have done against the draft law of the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, or the Council of Ministers, you have done in a manner of destruction, not direct destruction, but certainly the collapse of a state that has its own name and last name, which is called Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2363	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering from the word delegates? Rudo Vidović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2364	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to show my reflection on this law from the position of a representative who is not a professional in this house, and that has associated me with several conversations with journalists who have asked for my opinion, and I'm not interested in them because I'm not a professional. I'm a loud advocate to settle this issue by law. And indeed, I am amazed at all those who have made it possible for MPs not to be united. But I'm not talking about that right now. A moment ago, when we discussed possible amendments to correcting or correcting the errors of this law and those which, well here is Mrs. Majkić, read that letter, which is actually the most working in this Parliament and which is warning, among other things, for me and if it was considered at that time that the salaries of the MPs will bring down the budget, and now it is thought that the correction of certain coefficients of those who work most here will bring down the budget, then the question of sustainability and this budget is being raised. I believe Minister Vrankić will speak more about it. Respecting the instructions that have come and discussed both by representatives of 17 international organisations and the competent ministry, these amendments seem acceptable to me that if anything else, at least, the corrections of those who work most here in this House are corrected in this way. If this happens to bring down the budget, then, in this situation, responsibility should not be sought in the MPs of the House of Peoples, but the responsibility of all those who are here in this way, therefore, in the projection of unrealistic ratios and coefficients between the highest and lowest categories allowed it. Therefore, by respecting our chairman, Mr Filipović, I will support these amendments if the proposings are made, because I believe that if this conclusion happens, it will be realistically accepted, that this law will not actually be sustainable. So if in six, what, 60 days or 6 months we really see or if the projection says that these repairs are going to bring down the budget, then the question is, indeed,... of this law and its efficiency, or the sustainability of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2365	Thank you very much. Any of the delegates come forward for a word? Since no one is answering again, whether from the Council of Ministers, Mr. Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2366	Thank you very much. I welcome you all together, especially you, the president. I want every good, because you've come back to work after surgery and that's what a human being can least wish for. Agents, I wish you'd be a little more content with this law and the area that's processing you. I'm sorry it's not like that, and that could be said in that folk proverb, "He's having fun about himself." ... That was indeed the case in this House, not yours, but the one before. Once again, the debate was under 1% of the total increase in salaries, referring to just the appointed elected officials. After these amendments, the salary has been reduced to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, two deputies, and so can... demagoguely go with that story, although I think it matters, in mass it means nothing, but, well, unfortunately, the reality and talks about how we acted and how we came to the final solutions. I really believe that the House must be the crown of everything and that it is he who has been called upon to pass laws and bring them, and there is no such independence that is beyond this house. In one country, in one country, it's home, and it doesn't mean that he passed the law that someone is addicted. On the contrary, the basis of the law eliminates any addiction, even in the Law of Payments, but here, these are our circumstances, what I just said had fun about myself, that's how it is. If the grain is a grain of cakes, then we have broken one big piece of what is in this law and I support this proposal that you said that in a very short time we analyse this law after adoption and that we unite it or even sooner to go with what is not in the law, in the first place when it comes to MPs and the other 18 institutions, from the judiciary and everything. I think they should be in the law and that's exactly independence, not addiction, as you wanted to say. What led to the controversy at the previous home and about the amendments that were, they were very many, and I'm not going to say that everything proposed is ideal, but when you get a little bit better into the structure, analysis, then you know as a table full of glasses, push at one end of the glass, and it falls and it's the end there. They'll show an analysis after six months, we're ready to correct it, normally, along with you, and everything we think and see that needs to be fixed, we'll fix it. When it comes to this amendment today, what you were saying, we took a look at it in the Ministry and came to the next conclusion. Somewhere around two and a half thousand people would have covered this amendment, however, and that's not so important that the esteemed representative Vidović was saying, it's about five or six million marks, at 55 more, here I am as minister saying it's a small figure... but we come under other circumstances. When we go with these changes, then we don't say, you know, our colleagues from the office... the clerks, as we like to say; the middle expert is being prepared both in the military and in the police, and that includes an incomparably larger number of people, because we're tearing down the system that we've established the relationship that it is. So it's not two-and-a-half thousand people, it would be somewhere around maybe, even, right now I don't know, maybe Ranko can throw out, it's just an army of over ten thousand, the big majority is medium-sized, so all that goes with it, the police, etc. What is forgotten in this law is the second part, especially where incentives, work-by-work benefits and where they are entitled to benefits, the weight of work and the responsibility...which significantly affects and empowers the managers in the organisation of work and the job requirement to be reported. It has a significant impact on that part, and I think it should be looked at as well as these coefficients, because I see only coefficients. So in that context, I think we should look at it that way and in one way I think we can... look at it. There's a gentleman here, I don't know who he is, Ivanic or someone said about this reduction. And I'm responsible for saying no pay cuts. There's no pay cut, and there's no law. So, we said that if someone gets paid eventually, that they will continue to receive it over a certain period at the same level, there will be no reductions until it is adjusted, and we know that 7.5%, but at this point in the next year, wages are increasing. So, and who's on that, let's say conditionally, a balance of zero,... after an increase, it's going to have a 7.5% higher salary next year, because it's got this instrument built into law, and that's precisely why we don't come and wait for the next ten years, so through certain instruments... and non-supervisory discussions we get into a position to have so little wages again. The middle cook, we've analyzed it a little bit, but unfortunately here, unfortunately. Fortunately, we've passed the Fiscal Council Act, we would have to, in fact, our role... three prime ministers, three finance ministers to sit here every day, to do what the Fiscal Council Act tells us to do. And that's to arrange relationships and harmonize the entire system at all levels. And we should say that we have the same salary with a medium professional background from the municipality to us here in the state. We must be prepared and politically on such a thing to level that part. Now that we've spoken, there's been a most debate about the police. Well, we've come to the consultation that the border police, our state police, mean the border police behind Canton of Sarajevo have the best 19 salaries, the biggest. But I can't influence it, because Canton Sarajevo has 70% of the federal budget and they pay their own salary, they have their own parliament and they bring it that way. ... We have a canton, and here I don't know, Branko knows, in Livno, which are far below, Central Bosnia and Republika Srpska are also not an envious salary when it comes to police. And normally, if we lift up now, we come to this disproportion, and someone pops up, and they say, everyone calls on Canton of Sarajevo, nobody, say, calls on the police in Republika Srpska or the Lithuanian Canton, so to speak, so wait, this is good, it's worse. So here's what I don't know, but I'm saying this because now I didn't expect this debate to bring the papers, because I have all that calculation in my drawer. These are basic things, and I think that this level of medium-level expertise that I also think should be bigger and that one such context, here we came to some relationships but over a period, I don't see this through pay daily to get out... the calculation of what it is today, the more I look at it as one system, the more I look at it as a relationship and the more I see as something that I can calculate for the next year how much money I need for the salary budget. And I can even go through the year, because I'm making an indicative budget for every three years and parameters quite clearly, that's the quality of this law, and I'm saying once again there won't be a reduction, and we also have to figure out one thing out. We have eliminated this law – and all that we have given, we have mentioned earlier the opposition – the arguments that they are hitting on us because we have had very many decisions about fees, certain rights, commissions that were suspicious in fact, in terms of adequate work and for that money, the money that has been received, and I believe that we have eliminated it all and another phenomenon that has been, which we will now eliminate. There may be some problems and misunderstandings, which is that one number of people had solutions based on the equipment they didn't have, so they were at work with VS, which they didn't. Then please, if he comes back to the SS, normally he'll have less pay than he is. I guess we have so many people on the Bureau, respecting those who have been working for a long time, doing their job well, that they're real craftsmen in their work and should also be appreciated, but there's a way to... adequately charge. Here, I believe that through these conclusions that are here, that in a short period, even if it should not wait six months, we are going to expand this law, to include the MPs, because I am responsiblely saying that you will do yourselves the greatest damage and give the arguments for criticism, which will then be founded, and now it has not been founded, which has been directed towards you and that we are going through all the repairs that are being shown by an analysis that really needs to be fixed. And I would ask, here is to understand that in this form it is adopted means this law as proposed, because the new alignment of texts, different adopted, carries problems, and yet people expect us to go with wages. And I believe we did a good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2367	Okay, thank you very much. Anyone else answer for a word? If no one answers their word, I'm closing the argument. Now we need to approach the vote on amendments. The U.S.A. had, as far as I can see here, 11, 12 amendments to the House of Representatives, and we need to be clear if we are staying with those 20 amendments and the House of Peoples, by making this amendment regarding the subsistence under number XI... [[Common discussion]] So, we should follow the amendment, by weight, after the law. Here's the thing, so Amendment XI... is about the undersigneds, these are all the other amendments that the U.S.A. has proposed in the House of Representatives. We're going to vote on amandman I.. You can vote. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2370	Amendment XI, I said, for the submission of this amendment, I am giving up the earlier Amendment XI, which was adopted in Parliament, which is numbered and so that it is now recast.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2371	So, we're voting on this amendment to the new one that you've submitted, i.e. as an XI renewed amendment. You can vote. It's amandman XI.. We're voting on the amendment XI that's been amended, you know, relative to the earlier text. He didn't get the necessary majority of this amendment. I konstatovati he didn't win. We're going to Amendment XII.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2372	Please, given that Hazim Rančić and I are applicants of the amendment, I cannot give up the amendment on his behalf.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2373	We vote on Amendment XII and we're done. We can vote, here. Also, this amendment has not received the required majority. Now we're voting on this law. You can vote! Please let us vote on the law itself. I said we're voting on this bill, please, here we go again. Here, note, we're voting on this bill. 22 I find that this law was passed by a majority of votes: nine votes "for", one "against", one "abstained". We now have Mrs. Majkić's conclusion, which I think fits the discussion, namely Mr. Filipović's proposal, which reads: - The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges the Council of Ministers to make a detailed analysis and make a proposal to amend and supplement the law in those cases where there has been a failure to determine the elements of the salaries and fees and the same... to refer to the Parliamentary Assembly for consideration and adoption. Another conclusion, Mrs. Majkić: - The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges the Council of Ministers to draw up a bill on salaries and other fees to BiH-level judicial and prosecutorial institutions within 60 days of the date of receipt of this conclusion and deliver it to parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2374	/away from the microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2376	After this discussion by the minister, I'd just like to ask. I've put in six months, considering that it's some kind of a rational deadline for some analysis and a delivery of new amendments. If there's a chance that we can cut that deadline from six months to four months, that would be good... correct it by six months.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2377	Okay, okay, so we're voting on Mrs. Majkić's conclusions... All right, we're voting on Mrs. Majkić's conclusions with this change, instead of "from six months" it takes "up to six months". We vote, first of all, on the first conclusion. You can vote! I find this conclusion unanimously adopted. Let's go to Mrs. Majkić's second conclusion. Here are nine "for" and two "abstained". Okay, first conclusion. We're going to another conclusion. You can vote! I also find that this conclusion was adopted with seven votes "for", four "abstained" votes. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2378	I have proposed a conclusion: that the College should commit itself to co-operation with the Council of Ministers to prepare within six months a proposal to amend and supplement this law on which Parliament would be involved in the consideration. I think the College in co-operation with the Council of Ministers should have an obligation to do so within six months at the latest. I suggest it... to be determined.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2379	All right. I'm sorry, because I didn't get that request in writing, so I didn't put it... but here I think this is clear what Mr Ivanic said. ... So, he suggests a conclusion that obliges the College to propose amendments and additions to this law in agreement with the Council of Ministers to resolve the status of personal receipts of MPs, i.e. delegates. Isn't that right, Mladen?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2380	Yes, it is, it's correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2381	That's Mr Ivanić's suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2382	Can I?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2383	Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2384	When one law falls, I reckon we lost, he fell into the House of Representatives and came to us. It takes six months at least to put the new law into practice. But I think in six months everything that's happened and so far, just in the past, this time when the House of Representatives has been considering and we'll be there, the same thing will be done. I'd let go, we'd be punished, and we'd have to stay punished, so let's keep it that way. That's why I mean, we can't affect that. Mr. Ivanic, I'd like you to say what you're saying, and I feel very bitter about everything, but I don't see that we can influence it. They won't even make it to the House of Peoples. They won't reach the House of the People, they'll be torn down at the House of Representatives. So, don't put your strength into something, we have much more important things waiting for us and what we need to invest for. 24 [[Common discussion Zno – Mike]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2385	Okay. This is Mr Filipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2386	I'll do it very briefly. I'd just like to, if that's all right. So here's how much bile there is when you mention it, because it's something we have to fix. So this country has to fix it. I understood from the discussion of Minister Vrankić, when he was speaking about this time of adaptation to the application of this law, that it would be good to emulate, to see how he, as he is in the implementation, was seen whether they were affected, so the whole pay classes, whether or not, and whether there was someone jumping to underestimate, would be simultaneously put by the Council of Ministers in parliamentary procedure of amending and supplementing and implementing this repair. I think some judicial bodies were mentioned. And it comes from the Council of Ministers. We do not need any conclusion in this form as Mr Ivanic has now suggested. Especially what you said, one total inaccuracy. The law didn't fall. The law lost one provision... but he passed. Today we voted him, he passed through the House of Representatives, he passed through the House of Peoples, but there is not one additional class position there. It's something that's unsustainable, because this institution can't take salaries outside institutionally. Please nice, an institution that builds other institutions, extra-institutionally, outside the law, receives pay. I mean, that's what we, we can't afford. And someone will warn us smart, and there are those who follow. We're under surveillance, so we've been monitoring since yesterday. ... I ask that we accept it, so I understand, therefore, the presentations of the esteemed finance and vault minister, that this will come as part of the overall review and repairs, so the law that will apply for the first six months and, as part of the amendments and additions, we will have a full law with all the users of the state budget. We do not use other people's funds to the neighbouring state, but to the budget of the BiH state, and if there is a law that regulates the reception of all those who work in the institutions of the BiH state, then I guess that's where Parliament is too. Everything else is nonsense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2387	Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2388	: Mr. President, if you are allowed to comment on the proposal of the honourable envoy... Ivanić, I would not like to draw such a conclusion today, for the reason that an extremely good and quality idea would thus lead to a questionnaire or devalue it. An integral social, total being and this Parliament, surely by their inaction, Parliament has brought itself into this position, not someone else. The one who worked against an idea that was so high and high-quality that one area was arranged for 23,000 users where parliamentarians made a decision at the end and beginning of each year on the adoption of the budget, for all those users. And it was the only criticism against us. This is where we kneeled, we showed no resistance, and then we should primarily appreciate ourselves, appreciating our 25 positions as Parliament's need. It would not have happened that news from the European Parliament coming through the newspaper, just these days, in which BiH parliamentarians have been called who have allowed to play the last hole. And they had these headlines in the paper. And if that's the case, we don't need conclusions to protect us. We set up a conscious meeting part of the system for which we are fighting so much, which means that the Council of Ministers must, in a very reasonable time, do so without conclusion, then do something that would be counterproductive to us. I think it's a mature time for us to become an integral part of the system we're fighting so hard for and we don't need a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2389	Okay, thank you. Mr. Ivanic, are you staying at this conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2390	No Niko's gonna back me up, and I don't understand why. We're hypocritical, the same wages will be made by decisions... The administrative commissions are non-transparent, rather than legal by Parliament. But here, when no one will support it, so that I don't turn out to be the one who's going to be fighting for Parliament's wages again -- which is my least wish already is for the public to know what our coefficients are, and not that it's standing there somewhere to shut the door -- come on, I'm going to withdraw the proposal of this conclusion, and we're going to have an implicit feeling that the Council of Ministers will now do the job that we took off, and he's already done it right now. But here it is, but I don't understand all these political variations a bit, and I'm a very skilled politician. ... What happened to what we're accomplishing? But here, if there's no agreement, it's pointless for me to suggest it, obviously it doesn't, and here I'm going to withdraw my proposal for a conclusion, although I'm doing it very reluctantly, and I think it's our obligation to be within the law, not outside the law. But here, if that's socially acceptable, not to mention it, come on, here's my proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2391	Okay, thank you. Moving to the 8th point of the agenda: Ad.8. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of BiH (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The second reading discusses amendments. It's about the law. The House of Representatives passed this law in the proposed text. You've reached the committee's report. The Commission accepted the text of the proposal for a law. There were no new amendments. 26 Is anyone answering for a word? No Niko's answering for a word. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on this law. You can vote! I find that all 10 delegates voted for this bill, adopted unanimously. Moving to the 9th point of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial exam in BiH (second reading) – Proposer:The BiH Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2395	So, I had a need to say a few words about this law, which, on several occasions, is trying to pass and, here, we know that in September of last year, 27 attempts to regulate this matter properly and the bill's proposal did not receive support in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2396	It's adopted, everything with an amendment has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2397	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2398	He's been through with the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2399	Afterwards, indeed with a great commitment from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, here is a new proposal for a framework law on secondary vocational education and training, which in one modern way, with only 25 members – it is indeed... we have been phenomenally learning to make simple laws – regulates global issues that details will be regulated by laws at the level of entities and Brcko District. The law therefore lays down the principles of the organisation of secondary vocational education and training, institutions, basic issues of curricula and programmes, evaluation and examination standards, the issue of autonomy of schools, governance and funding. It is also a very important thing that this law complies with EU standards in this area, and the special importance of this law is to establish a framework curricula and programme for the first time at BiH level. When agencies start working on a 'Framework law on secondary vocational education and training' will finally be adopted, BiH will finally have a legal institutional framework for implementing education reform in line with European partnership requirements and modern European standards. ...I really see that no one listens, I would, I would, I would, rather stop talking and here I am now finishing up, when I see that the topic is not interesting, that after the adoption of this framework law will work positively on many effects in BiH and that is why I believe that this law should be supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2400	Okay. Is anyone else answering for word? He's not answering. We can approach the vote. The vote just means this law in the first reading. You can vote! I also find that this law has been passed unanimously: 10 votes "yes". Moving to the 11th point of the agenda: 28 Ad.11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You've reached the bill. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. The House of Representatives passed this law in the first reading with a conclusion. This first reading of the law, article 100, is the first debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? If no one answers their word, I'll put it to a vote. You can vote! I also find that this law was adopted in the first reading. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda: Ad. 12. Proposal for a Law on Border Control, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission - Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2403	Can I just make a few clarifications about the draft law on border control? In recent years, he was in this commission, two or three times returned from the commission phase to the proposal; the Council of Ministers is a proposing but here it is returned to the Ministry of Security, it is. No, I'm not going to say that there wasn't good enough will for this law to be passed and to live as a law. I'll just briefly tell you what the problem is. The problem is that after obtaining this law in the commission phase, we have received a lot of performances on this law from the Border Police, which is at the heart of this law – which determines the essence of its work on border control – to the expert or expert team of the international community that forms the Geneva Centre DIKAF. We sent the DIKAF that question directly to the man who led that expert team and who sent his objections. Afterwards, he showed us a complete elaborate and said it wasn't a problem and we shouldn't rush this law, because the law that we have now is mostly good, but that it needs to be changed. But if we are already doing something, and we are already in the AKI programme, then we need to work in accordance with European principles – according to not 29 of hard Šengen principles because we can't do it, we're not still in the Schengen regime – but the general principles that in European countries simply treat this border control issue that it is necessary to accept it in the draft of this law. We've sent it to the promoter. The people sent theirs, please, to 62...... the articles of this law were from this expert group of 72 presentations. Of those 72, the deputy minister at the last session himself said that essentially 15-16 should be accepted, incorporated into the law and that he would then become who he is. I personally suggested that the Proposer withdraw the law. Tomorrow they're having a conversation with an expert team, tomorrow is the 19th, or the day after tomorrow. Eh, 19th, they're having a conversation with that expert team to withdraw this bill, to install what they've already decided for themselves to install 15-16 of these interventions, professional interventions, to give us back that law and to finish the story in a month. However, the man did not have that mandate, the law fell on this commission, it is, it does not mean accepted principles. Really, I wonder why he... The House of Representatives has returned to this commission again. We're really trying to do something serious. We suggested the form that was most painless, none of this is about a month or two. Now we know what happens if we drop the law. Then six months no one can push him towards the commission or Parliament. And that's the problem now. It's personal for me now to get uncomfortable here and determine. I was against principles, only because the promoter didn't accept to pull it back and give it back to us in 20 days, which he could have done. That's it. I mean, nothing but what I said really exists when it comes to this law. So, simple respect for an expert team. Later they told us that they were doing this law and they didn't consult any experts, no expert teams. We know that this law of ours has been discussed at the Tirana Expert Assembly and that it was not then obtained from that and that the green light of the expert team. It's about the commission phase. Now...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2404	Well, we see that the House of Representatives has returned it to the Joint Commission, probably considering this fact that the law could not be passed within six months, so that it would waste time, so let's do it ourselves. In the meantime, I guess the Council of Ministers will mature... and reach a consensus that the law will be cleansed with these 15 or I don't know how many provisions. I don't know, Branko, what do you mean?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2405	We can, I don't mind. I tried to explain it to a man.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2406	Maybe he didn't have a mandate, he should have asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2407	President, man, pull him up so we don't go from 100 amendments to 62 that article of this law. If he didn't have a mandate, he had a cell phone, Mr. Tihić. I am for this, 30, and come on, I will also be against my own will and I told Mr Filipović, I have become uncultured, I do not see that my light is burning, and I told Mr Filipović that I cannot vote against what I voted in the Joint Commission. Now here I am publicly changing my mind that this law would not fall. But I'm afraid again for his fate on this committee. I think Mrs. Dušanka will support me before she...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2408	Mrs. Majkić and Alma Čolo have. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2409	I want to support you, but I can't say. The position under this law is about the view of this ministry. It is the only ministry that does not find fit to establish any communication with the Joint Defence and Security Commission. Unlike the Ministry of Defence that stands at our service, whenever we need it, the Ministry of Security is deaf that there is a competent parliamentary commission that controls and controls the ministry. So we don't exist for that ministry. Mr. Tihić, I'm not just saying this because I'm a delegate to the delegate and to you as chairman, but I'm telling you as a man from whose party this minister is coming from. We've spent a lot of words trying to sort out the situation that's connected to this ministry. We see a lot of mistakes and we are unable to launch them, although this is one of the best committees of the Parliamentary Assembly. I ask you, the place where you sit to help us, to bring the matter of work in this ministry to the level at which it deserves it. Thank you. So, if, only with that guarantee that we will have your support, I will accept that this law is returned to this commission again, because otherwise, if no one does anything, every next law that comes from this ministry will fall because the minister does not consider it appropriate to inform us or to cooperate with a wide circle of people when one law is brought into line. Here, these are about the reasons that are here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2410	Okay, thank you. Sure, I'll take care of that. I'm glad that this very minister of our second to cooperate well in the field of defence... so we'll make sure that this security minister is also at the service and that he cooperates, at least what is his obligation with the parliamentary commission. Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2411	Well, the chairman, I called before Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2412	I didn't see it. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2413	Because I saw that in the opinion of this commission the vote was 4:6, and the reasons for the refusal were that a large number of objections were made to the text of this law, some of which are essential character and do not comply with European standards and practices. This report shows that the observations made under this law do not comply with European standards and practices, i.e. the Schengen Agreement 2006. I don't know who the secretary of your commission is. Here's Mrs. Majkić thanking the Defense and Security Commission, but here you are saying it's a lapus. I think it's a serious opinion that's negative and I think you're under article 106. The Rules of Procedure should explain in detail who has submitted observations to this law, what the character of the remark is, all of what you have told us orally, because I do not see from this I do not see that this law is bad and I do not see which organisations and institutions have made any comments and I think that this report should be returned to the Joint Commission in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The House should give it guidance, and the guidelines are that you present all the observations made in the Commission's report and explain why this Commission considers that these remarks are not in line with European standards and practices, and I think that you wanted to say that the provisions, certain provisions of the law, are not in line with European standards and that you say which provisions of this law do not comply with European standards, and that we should then enter into a statement on the Report of this Commission. And I suggest that the report return to the Joint Commission with these guidelines.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2414	Mr. Branko Zrno. Here you go. Probably to make this right.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2415	This is obviously a sentence mistake. This is about a syntax error, it's about an error in a sentence that changes the whole sense. This here is consistent, and it does not comply with European standards and it does not comply with European standards, it means law, not these remarks. So, Ms. Alma, if we're going to renew this procedure, you're actually just one and we're extending the same thing for another month or two. And we're going to vote again on, we're going to vote again, but we have to do business. We must vote again on this commission's report. Therefore, please accept this as a technical, linguistic mistake. And as long as we have the mood today not to accept the Joint Commission's report, but to get this law back to this commission, to do it on days! Do you agree?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2416	Thank you very much. Here, I suggest exactly what Mr Branko Zrno said: that Dom return this report to the Joint Commission that within a deadline, I do not know which deadline is set here, Dom asks 32 of this commission to draw up a new opinion based on the guidelines set by the House and within a period set by the House,... some period of a month. So this is where Dom doesn't accept the opinion of this committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2417	Reporting in Article 101. Rules of Procedure, that's the usual term and here in this article is called to that deadline, so you don't have to specify.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2418	Okay. So I suggest that the House of People return this report to the Joint Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2419	The proposal is to reject this committee's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2420	Oh, yeah, okay. To reject this commission's report and return to review in accordance with the new guidelines set by the House. We should now vote, firstly, on the opinion of the Joint Commission, we should vote against, as I understand it. Here, we can vote! Okay, unanimously. Here's what we're voting for. You don't need it anymore, do you? Okay. We're going to the 13th point of the agenda, here we have a lot of these points today... Ad. 13. Report by the Joint Commission on the text on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the application and protection of the name of Bosnia and Herzegovina You've reached the Joint Commission's report. The Joint Commission adopted two amendments that have become an integral part of the law under Article 118. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We must vote on the Joint Commission's report to both homes. The House of Representatives adopted the Joint Commission Report. I'm opening the debate first. There's no need, is there? We are now voting on the Joint Commission Report. We can vote! 33 I also find that we unanimously adopted the Joint Commission's report. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. Appointment of three members in the Commission for Harmonisation of the text Proposal for a Law on the Fiscal Council of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2423	Mr. Hilm Neimarli.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2424	All right, all right. In front of the Hrvat klub?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2425	Mr. Rudo Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2426	Rudo Vidović. The Srbin?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2427	My little one.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2428	Mrs. Majkić. We can now approach the vote: Ms. Majkić, Rudo Vidović and Hilmo Neimarlija. We can vote, here. I find that a unanimous proposal has been adopted by members of the Joint Commission. Moving to the 15th point of the agenda: 34 Ad. 15. The appointment of the Auditor-General and the Vice-General of the Auditor-General (candidate rank-list shall be submitted by the Commission for the selection of the Auditor-General and the Vice-General of the Auditor-General) You have received a candidate list of the rankings for the selection of the auditor-general, the deputy auditor-general provided by the Commission. The House of Representatives was appointed by Milenko Šega, the Vice-General's Auditor-General's House of Representatives, named Božana Trninić and Munevera Baftić. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Mr Ivo Miro Jović answered the question. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2430	Thank you very much. Very briefly, as chairman of the Committee that was to be done this extremely difficult job that had been conducted for two years and debates and jobs and commissions formed and disbanded because no work had been done. This is a chance when I want and I want colleagues who have worked with me or I have done a very good job with them at the Committee. And here, half the work has been done in one home, our proposals have passed, although not in the way we suggested. And... that part saddens me because we've done the job certainly very well, professionally, and we've worked under special surveillance and under a special burden of daily harassment of our work. It took two or three months, but we did it successfully. That's why I congratulate all my colleagues, and I wish it had been done in the House of Representatives the way we suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2431	Okay, thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2432	So, I was one of the members of the Commission who, first of all, was a member of the Commission who last checked out why some candidates received unwarrantedly more votes than their professional characteristics allowed, and you know that the first choice went infamous and... that we could not choose a general auditor and his deputy. Then Parliament made a decision to elect a new commission, to form a new commission that should be here to show that this parliament is able to make a choice, while none of the political parties have shown at least so far the explicits that it cares about this or that candidate being elected. And put in a direct position to protect one of the 35 candidates who are on the list, on the ranking, made by the Commission means the obvious preference of individual political parties in favour of one or another candidate. The Commission did its job based on, I say, an artistic impression. The questions we've been asking candidates aren't type questions -- how do you audit or how do you manage it? Because if that were the case, Mr. Nekić would never be the first, because he's a man who doesn't have one day in the audit, and he's reached very high on the list, a ranking of Bosniak candidates. We believe that Parliament must not play another chance, which is that finally this institution, which may be the last and only one standing on the defense against crime and corruption, should not be executed in the right way. This means that no commission, or any six members of the commission, can be older than Parliament, means from both of his homes, and that they execute the election by not respecting the only rule of what the Commission wrote, because we wrote as we thought. It does not mean that I rated the best candidates, and I certainly believe that a group of 15 or 15 delegates in the House of Peoples will do better than the Commission will do in six. So I don't think we should let down what the House of Representatives did. We have no argument for that. If we have one single argument to reject what the House of Representatives did after a very intense discussion, I agree to open a discussion on the subject, but I don't think that makes any sense and that we should accept what the predstavnički of Representatives has made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2433	Is anyone else answering for word? Adem Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2434	Here, I don't know what to say, we really tried to do this honestly despite all the pressures that existed. The voting system, the points, is very good, so always the highest and smallest score is rejected. And I thought we made a quality proposal to the homes, and to each and every other home to make a decision. And then that, that changes from people, they haven't talked to anyone. We've spent a lot of time in this together. That's why I doubt it, and I personally think that we are more directed to this matter than it is, so we who worked in the Commission, than any home. And that is why I will remain on that proposal, voting as voted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2435	Okay. Alma Čolo. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2436	Under the Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions, Parliament says it appoints the main auditor and its deputies on the basis of a ranking set by the Commission for Elections. However, there is another law, the Law on ministerial appointments and appointments in the Council of Ministers and in BiH institutions concerning these appointments. The law states that this law applies to regulated bodies, and the regulated body is also the body in which the institution, in which case BiH means the BiH Parliament, is appointed. If the Law on Ministerial and Government Names of BiH applies, then the ranking must be respected. I don't know, the House of Representatives didn't respect that ranking list, and I think the one who was first on the list that Parliament should declare on it because the election committee has set out the list of candidates. Only the Law on ministerial appointments states: if there are reasonable reasons not to appoint the person who is first-ranked, then it goes to the next one on the list. Now, in this case, we have that the predstavnički of Representatives has deviated from the Ministerial Names Act. Some say the Law on Auditing is an institution lex specialis, however, that lex specialis does not define... how that choice is done. So he can't be a lex specialis in the domain of ranking candidates. So here's my opinion: these two laws must be respected at the same time. The law on ministerial appointments is more precise in this regard, so that Parliament is not put above the Commission, because the Commission is composed of members of Parliament, to whom Parliament has delegated powers to implement all the candidate ranking procedure. So, the commission has full capacity to rank candidates and that this parliament in the order of candidates means to execute a final appointment.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2437	Okay, thank you. Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2438	The selection of auditors is one of the elements of the Performance Study. This shows what it really means and how important it is to choose this function. We may not be aware of the great responsibility we have now at this point before we make a definitive decision. The last contest is so if we need to take a break of 10 minutes, I suggest we take a break of 10 or 15 minutes because I see we're working on circles, I don't think it makes any sense to take a 15-minute break, I suggest in front of the Serbian People's Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2439	Okay. We can do this. If you're gonna take a 15-minute break, we've got a break. 37 [[PAUZA]] We're continuing the session. Mrs. Majkić asked for a break, so here, I give her my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2441	So, the club of delegates of the Serbian people remains, except for Mr. Mladen Ivanić, he has little deviations from this, but we remain with the proposal defined by the House of Representatives – it is for the auditor-general to be elected Mr. Milenko Šego for, meaning the current auditor, the auditor-general, for Deputy Božana Trninić from the Office for Auditing the RS and Deputy Mrs. Munever Baftić from the institution of the audit, the senior auditor at the Office for Auditing BiH institutions. We cannot support it, although we can see that it is the position of the club, and especially when it comes to the... delegates of the SDA, that the election is being made by Mr. Dževad Nekić. We can't support this because Mr. Nekić doesn't have any reference as an auditor and he doesn't have any,...I said just before in his speech: if he had one argument that defines his choice in this significant institution, then we would support it. So, we risk that we will not be able to make a complete choice, that it is unlikely that a representative from the Bosniak people will be elected, that Mr. Dževad will Nekić down other competitions, but these are not arguments that violate delegates from the order of the Serb people, so that, after this vote, everyone will take their part of the responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2442	Okay, thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2443	Well, I'd like to ask Mrs. Majkić, since... she was a member of this committee, as far as I know. Why is Mr. Dževad Nekić first-ranked and has 360 points, and Mrs. Baftić 275, and which is why the Commission was really led to make such a score, because here...the difference is almost 100 points and why I would ignore the first-ranked candidate and vote for the third-ranked. I really don't know. Somebody explain it to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2444	Because he was a representative of the SDA in the Commission and was not a representative of the Party for BiH. Had he been a representative of the BiH Party, she would have probably voted quite differently.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2445	So that was the deal. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2446	Wait a minute. But if Dom's not enough argument that a man who's never worked in the audit is favored and that a woman who's had 80 audits so far isn't, then I don't think I have the right to say anything. Those were my arguments. And another thing, the House of Peoples elects the Auditor-General and his deputy, the Commission proposes, so it can step away – therefore it is not an obligation of respect, it does not write anywhere – respect for the ranking list.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2447	Okay. Adem Ibrahimpašić
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2448	Nowhere in this law that we've been applying has it written how many who have audits. There were 10-15 criteria and we respected those criteria. And when we talked about them, for my word, this man was giving very honest answers. And that girl, maybe, maybe it was me, I don't know how many points I gave her. They were all kind of competent, but when we did, we figured out from the conversation that this one was better than who the other was. It's just that the man got more points and we didn't have to count how many audits. If we had, we would have turned it on.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2449	Okay, here's a thank you, not to be convinced now. The Bošnjak Club has its position, most of the Bosniak Club has its position, it's strange that the Serb people's club is more concerned than we are who will be elected... from the order of our people. And, just the arguments are on the side of what we represent, which is that our candidate is the first on the list, you know. All this other story is too high. This is the fact that Mr. Nekić is first on the list, you know. And the other thing you're talking about, it could be a matter of some other agreements that have a second background, not this professional background. So, if no one has any more discussion, we don't convince each other. Mr. Branko Zrno.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2450	Well, I think, given what's been said now, it's only fair that we, like the Croatian Club in the House of Peoples, say our position.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2452	Because we're starting with the fact that this isn't about parties, we're not assuming either in the party's mind, but we're assuming people's clubs. And we're going to act on every club's desire, the majority wish of every club. I think that's fair and correct. We don't trade parties here, and we don't talk party games here, and we only talk about the wishes of the club of one, the other and the third people. 39 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2453	Okay, thank you very much. So, Hilmo Neimarlija, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2454	So, I welcome the co-chairmen, the guests who stayed. I just need to react to this little earlier manifestation of the chairman who, of course, did not tend to say that the Bošnjak klub has this attitude, because as a club, we haven't defined ourselves, although obviously... it can be expressed as a majority, or as a club's position, because obviously these three members of us are four of us who are here... for one, one proposal. I am against this proposal and led, among other things, convinced me before... in the need to support the proposal from the House of Representatives for two reasons. One is that by... we ensure the implementation of this election truly to the end. And on the question of disagreement... the appointments that, I say, were carried out by the Commission's House of Representatives and Opinions, especially in the case of this Bošnjak candidate, I am convinced that, on Wednesday or after the conflicts, they are of professional and party interest, to be fair. Because the gentleman who is first on the list has neither, I really repeat, nor the day of the audit experience. And I don't think we're fooling ourselves, so there are party reasons here, but there are also these reasons that I fully respect, which Mr. Zroh said in terms of club relations, there's also an obligation to respect and I'm here to reflect the Commission's position. However, if the predstavnički of Representatives has not adopted the Commission's opinion, we should, at the same time, be bound by the Commission's opinion but also by the position of the House of Representatives. If our colleagues have declared themselves as they have declared themselves, obviously there should be a duty for us. But, leaving every of course the right to plead as it will be stated, that everyone assumes their part of responsibility as at the beginning... and said, therefore taking over the consequences of this now... of the statements, which will probably be, is not difficult to assume different from the statement... At the House of Representatives, we are actually getting into a situation that we will not have an auditor, or that we will not finish this process, and that is, again, back to the first reason he has led me to be in favour of the proposal, and I will support the choice of the general auditor and deputy who is in agreement with the election of the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2455	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivanic answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2456	Well, I think we should approach the vote because it's pretty clear how it's gonna end, but here, I just want to say one sentence. As Mrs. Majkić said, the dominant part of the Serb people's MPs is for one solution, I, knowing Mr. 40 Kulin, was also for him, for that solution, since I think the man worked and was very correct in setting himself up. I know it's not good that politicians sometimes praise auditors, but I really think he's done his job quite correctly, well, and that he belongs to people who are very qualified and educated in that structure. But, as Mr. Neimarlija said, there are various interests and, in my opinion, we will have today's decision. It is clear to me that it will be brought and well, we will live with it but I felt correct to say what I think of the first candidate in the order of the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2457	Okay, I'd like to say a few more words. The MPs here from the SDA but also these other parties at the Bosniak Club support this one principled position, which is to choose the first one from the list. And we will vote for the first from the list and from the order... The Hrvat from both the Srbin and the Bošnjak order. We think it's also in line with this Ministerial Names Act that Mrs Alma Čolo spoke of. And there are certain illogicalities here, you know, when we say, we'll vote for whoever has the audit. We have such attitudes and discussions. Well, Kulin's got as many audits as you want! Why don't you vote for Coolina, and he's the first and he's got these audits maybe most of all the candidates, if that's the criterion. Therefore, the Bosniak Club will vote here in principle, in accordance with the Ministry Act and appointments for the candidate who is first on the list. I think it's our legal obligation, that any different choice can lead to the total cancellation of the auditor's election. Now, as far as I can see, we can approach the vote. Right? First, we declare ourselves to be a candidate for the general auditor. You have a rank list. The first on the list is Milenko Šego. Who's for Milenko Šega? You can vote! Mr. Šego has been elected unanimously. So... 11 votes "for", "against", there is no "abstained". We are now declaring ourselves a candidate for deputy general auditor of the Bosniak people's order. The first on the list is Dževad Nekić. We can vote! "For" Dževad Nekić was voted: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven; "against" three, "abstained" one. We don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2458	He doesn't have an entity majority, he needs a alignment. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2459	Yeah, it's gotta be a match. Are we going to get along right now? So we couldn't agree. Then we vote again. Right? In accordance with Rule 73(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the decisions shall be taken by a majority of the votes of those present and voting provided that... votes "against" shall not contain two-thirds or more of the votes of the envoys or representatives elected from each entity. We can vote. We all vote. Okay, we're repeating the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2460	The same way we vote, just count the other one.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2461	We're voting the same way we voted just now. We can vote! So 7 to 3, the same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2462	7 : 4!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2463	Yeah, seven to four.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2464	The candidate passed because there are no two-thirds of the vote "against" from the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2465	So, candidate Nekić passed, when it comes to the House of Peoples, because there are no two-thirds of the RS vote "against", there must be four. Let's see, let's see.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2466	I mean, there aren't two-thirds of the votes "against" and it's okay. A decision has been made, period. He was chosen first.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2467	The first one was selected from the list. 42 Let's go to the next one, okay. Now we're voting on... Is this where we skip... these other candidates? I don't know, Munib Ovčina, etc. Admir Džumhur, yes. Let's go now, we are now pleading candidates for the deputy general auditor in the order of the Serb people. I don't know exactly who, but here's the first one on the list: Dragan Kulin. We can start voting. I find that candidate Dragan Kulina's proposal, the first on the list, has failed. Let's go, the other on the list is Božana Trninić. We can vote! I find that Mrs Božana Trninić has been elected with seven votes "for", three "against" and one "abstained". He's got all these necessary majority. Isn't that right, Secretary? How many from the Federation? He's got five and everything from the RS. It's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2468	I'm not sure if our secretary is qualified to say what this means now, whether there's a consensus. As far as I'm concerned, there's no compliance under the Law of Choice. Two different candidates are elected from the Bosniak people to two homes, which means, if I understand correctly, that means a new competition. Well, I think it would be a good idea if, I don't know, the secretary, at least how much he can explain what that means right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2469	Okay, I don't know. Here comes Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2470	I don't know... where is it prescribed to go to a new competition? Of course, here are two different decisions and we'll see later, after the session let the College see what we do. It doesn't say anything about having to go to a new competition. We can go through this another way. It doesn't say there's a new competition to be made. I'm not saying there's a match. The voting procedure can, I think, be resolved in another way.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2471	Okay, here's Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2472	Just a very short one. I'll try to help get out of this situation. I'm sure two main auditors have been elected, and that's just like tears. So I'll tell you why. We had a case when we had a elected one or two Ombudsmans in 43 House of Representatives and that procedure didn't pass in the House of Peoples. So it was said and quite rightly concluded to repeat the competition for the Ombudsman BiH. Manchester BiH is an institution made up of three people with exactly equal rights, powers, etc. There's a whole other situation here. We have an auditor-in-chief here, and only one main auditor is selected after the competition is called. Procedures carried out, the vote went through in one home and another, and that's the end of the story. Two deputies are elected after, therefore, by the same procedure, one is elected and the other is, therefore, now as a different amendment to two homes, I don't think that we should go to an agreement, but legally I don't even rule out such an option. Let the legal experts deal with this situation a little bit, I don't think we've had, perhaps those who remember longer than the lawyers at the Parliamentary Assembly can find a solution or an example, but I don't see that much difference. If it's agreed that it's a candidate who's been to one or another home, maybe that's how it might be. I wouldn't go along with agreeing with people, they're not amendments, they're people. So, before I am inclined to launch a new tender for the selection of candidates, deputy chief auditor from the Bosniak people's order. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2473	You've got Hilmo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2474	Filipović said, and I also have in mind this experience with the Ombudsman and I have in mind the possibility that this might be legally interpreted in a similar way,... whether it is an institution with a deputy, with a general auditor and deputies, or three carriers of three, to say, fully separate duties. [[no microphone turned on]] That's why I wouldn't rush to this conclusion, a colleague of Filipović. Whether we're done with the process or not,...I'm not sure... that we, that we can separate here, I'm not sure, so I'm not disabling that possibility, but I'm not sure at all, I mean this right now with the Ombudsman, I have in mind our overall situation. I think that, I wouldn't say too much, I'd leave it to me a little bit... that actually the College is taking this a little bit more seriously, to consider it a little more seriously, because if we do, we have two legal options, a possibility with precedent, a possibility without precedent, but we have our circumstances. So, I'm, I'm not sure, I'm not sure, or I'm not ready to accept that these are, that these are, therefore, not our clean situation. Formal-legal none of us can be sure now that it is three completely different duties that are independent of each other, which do not make a package, therefore, in one of our Bosnian hergic terms, therefore, and that it was not one competition, and that this competition does not have an organic unity in which it does not allow sharing. So I'm not sure, so I'm asking that this still be subject to one serious legal review. That's it. That's it. _________(?) 44 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2475	Okay, yeah, yeah, we are.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2476	What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I know they do, so that's the anomaly that... we have to remove. I know, formally! I'll be accused... I belong, I mean, I hate to say this, I hate to say this, I never said this, I don't know what year of parliamentary work this is. For the first time, I am in a position to say that I am... uncomfortable to speak because I belong to the most people in BiH. And because constantly, and on formal and informal grounds, there's a danger of accusing someone of some kind of unitarism or something like that. Please, I'm just so that as consistently as possible we respect some basic principles that we shouldn't have doubts about. To know where the institutional package or where institutionally applies, and to know where it doesn't apply, where we can share it. For this reason, therefore, I do not support any solution, but only, so I am asking and I think that fellow Filipović with whom I have always been very well understood will respect this, this caution of mine, you know. Which we Bošnjak are guilty of, of course, here we are now in the House of the Peoples, so I can say, whether, colleague Tihić, is, for which they are not guilty, here I am saying, delegates from neither the order of the Serbian people nor the order of the Croatian people, but, or they are MPs in the House of Representatives who have disobeyed the Commission's report. Has the Commission acted... professionally, professionally or partyly? I mean, you'd be able to talk about everything. But considering, therefore, our circumstances, I would plead that you should reconsider a little thing, that we do not break it in the sense that the competition for two, for the auditor general and for the deputy, and that one deputy should be chosen. There you go. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2478	Let's not discuss it now. Okay, no problem. Just like that, I'm appealing more, because it's already late, it's 8:00.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2479	No, I really agree, too, that there's no need to talk. But you can't, Mr. Neimarlija, be against it, then try to save the day. You have to decide whether it's for or against... and you could, in the end, be held back. Please, generals and one deputy are now working. There's no one from the Bosniak people. The guilt of this kind of vote, and this result, the House of Representatives, had a secret vote. And many are also considered an international community, many have recommended that a secret vote for such types of institutions is of importance to the country and should be applied. And they applied it, they ended up voting at the House of Representatives, we ended up voting at the House of Peoples. No return to the Commission, no law, no story on the subject. The 45th election of the Serbian general auditor and deputy general was carried out. In turn, for the... Bosniak people, there's a new competition going on. Let the third competition be called for Mr. Nekić, I don't mind but I say we won't vote for a man who doesn't have any experience for a day in the audit. Well, that's just our attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2480	Okay, I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. We're going to the 16th point, Ad. 16. The appointment of three delegates in the House of Peoples in the Ad hoc Commission for the Implementation of the Procedure of Appointing: (a) Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure; (b) Board of Appeals as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure The House of Representatives was appointed by Vinko Zorić, Drago Kalabić and Adem Huskić to the Ad hoc commission. We should also appoint... our candidates. Here's Adem.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2482	I... The Bošnjak Club... Mr. Hazim Rančić, he'll be very pleased.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2483	Okay. It's a Hrvat grain, isn't it? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay. From the order of the Srbin?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2485	Mr. Mladen Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2486	Mladen Ivanić. Can we vote? So, I realize that we unanimously elected Mladen Ivanić, Branko Zrn and Hazim Rančić to these ad hoc appointment committees, to conduct the appointment procedure in these: Independent Committee and Committee on Citizens' Appeals. 46 Let’s go to the 17th point: Ad. 17. Review of the 2007 report on the work of the joint committees of both homes: (a) Joint Commission on the Defence and Security of BiH, (b) Joint Security and Intelligence Commission on the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency, (c) Joint Commission on Human Rights, Children's Rights, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, (d) Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, (e) Joint Committee on European Integration, (f) Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development You've received reports from these commissions. The House of Representatives adopted reports. I'm opening a debate. No Niko's answering for a word. We're approaching the vote. Here, I find that these work reports for the 2007 joint committees of both homes were unanimously adopted. Here you see, we now have on the agenda a series of these ratification agreements. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2489	Please, before that, if there were no problems and if we hadn't stayed, here is the question of how many two-thirds of those are present. Here's where the old dilemma is now mentioned again. And I'm afraid I'm going to get into such a difficult subject about what's two-thirds, that we're going back to the story of October and November, that we better not get into it. Because if we take these three votes down, if it's supposed to be three, there's no appointments again, there's got to be another contest. And let's not be difficult, at least that's how I interpret it. You know that a literally prescribed business provision from the Constitution and that one interprets it like this, the other one. No, if we open it now, I'm afraid we'll get in trouble. And I, and I wouldn't like to side by side to have someone whispered and that some great philosophy of it being made, extreme implications, if I understand well, the votes in this house are either no one or this man has been elected, but that still means that there has to be a competition in either case. I don't see what's coming. Or, if you don't think he's chosen first, that we'll be at the polls again so that we can eventually pass, if that's it, let's know it's that, and then we can discuss it. I'm really afraid of the topic that we're going to get into a tense situation 47 about what's two-thirds of the entity, that I'm afraid that... we're going back to October, November, and that... there's no need for that essentially. Here, but I wanted to say it openly, because it goes on from all sides. Chairman, I think we need to know whether we made a decision about the first man, about the Bošnjak as a home, or not. Well, it's my opinion that the decision was made, wasn't it two-thirds? That's how I interpret it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] That's it. As far as this point is concerned, I suggest that the chairman open the debate on all points to the end, so if we have any objections to some point that we vote in particular. If we don't, let's vote once for everything, so we don't go with that procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-06-17-1.u2491	... We have agreements, i.e. giving consent to ratification of various of these agreements, which you received in the invitation. [[Disable microphone]] The proposal is to discuss it, discuss it in a unique way, conduct a debate. Is that what we should vote on? Maybe we should still vote? Who's here... to make a statement, here's what we can vote for: to conduct one debate under all these agreements. Here's the unanimous conclusion that we're having an argument. So, on the agenda, it's "Ad." 18. Giving consent to ratification of the Strasbourg Agreement, Ad. 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the European Convention on the Non-Aging of Crimes against Humanity and War Crimes, Ad. 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Intangible Cultural Heritage (UNESCO), Ad. 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on co-operation in the fight against terrorism, illegal trafficking, crime, etc., Ad. 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the reading of persons who are illegally staying, Ad. 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Agreement between BiH and the Commission of the European Community on rules of co-operation relating to the financial assistance of the EC of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Ad. 24. Giving consent to ratification of a two-year co-operation agreement (BCA) between BiH and the World Health Organisation's Regional Office for Europe in 2008/2009, 48 Ad. 25. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty on the Ratification of the Budapest Agreement on the International Recognition of Deposits of micro-organisms in the context of the patenting process, Ad. 26. To give consent to the ratification of the Protocol relating to the Madrid Agreement on the International Registration of Marks, Ad. 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the International Convention on the Protection of Artists of Artists, Phonogram Producers and Broadcasting Organizations, Ad. 28. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of phonogram Manufacturers against the unauthorised multiplication of their phonograms, Ad. 29. To give consent to the ratification of the Statutes, General Principles and Procedural Rules of the Commission Codex Alimentarius, Ad. 30. Giving consent to ratification of the European Social Charter (revised), Strasbourg, 3 May 1996 Here, I read all these agreements anyway so we know what the debate is about. I'm opening a debate on all these agenda points. Is anyone answering their word? Since no one's answering for a word, we approach the vote. Please vote. Young man, vote too! I find that we have unanimously ratified all these agreements that I have previously read and which are in the record. And we have another item on the agenda, that's the supplemental point: ad. 31. Initiative to address de-certified police
