ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1844	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates and present representatives of the Council of Ministers, international institutions, respected media representatives, I welcome you all and open the 16th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. At today's session, there are 14 delegates, four from the Bosniak people, five from the Croatian people and five from the Serb people. Mr. Sulejman Tihić justified his absence since he is truly justifiably Serbian to attend today's session. In that context, I'd just like to explain something. We, as you know, agreed at the last session that in the event of the adoption of the law from a set of police reform at the House of Representatives that the House of People would hold a session on Monday, and we were scheduled to hold that session. Mr Filipović and I, together in a conversation with Mr Tihić, made a decision to move the session in two days, because Mr Tihić had a sincere need to express his stance on police reform today in front of the BiH public. We agreed to accept it and postpone the session for today. I am truly sorry that Mr. Tihić is unable to speak his mind today, but that is what I felt I needed to say and to explain to you why I am chairing today, therefore, this session. He wanted to make his point, but his health circumstances did not allow him to do so. I wish him a quick recovery, and I hope there will be many more political battles, and it is a personal pleasure sometimes to participate in these battles and in talks with Mr. Tihić. You received the 16-point agenda for today's session. It's a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples. I'm asking the delegates, does anyone have an update on the agenda? Mr. Šaraba reporting for word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1845	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to say one thing about today's session. So, I'm taking this opportunity to take it out on the agenda. I personally express my dissatisfaction with the appointment and holding of the House session today. The reason for that is next. About two months ago, the Joint Commission for Defence and Security informed home co-workers that 2 would be held on 16, 17 and 18 April by a significant conference dedicated to regional co-operation and that these days did not plan home sessions. Unfortunately, the College did not respect this joint commission letter, and it should have done so in view of the importance of the topic and the importance of meetings and events that are happening today in one other place. That's why I'm expressing this protest in my belief that in the coming period there will be a little more hearing and meaning for some things that are happening and not just about Sarajevo. Something can be held in Trebinj and it can be far more respectful and respectful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1846	Thank you. I, on behalf of the College, respect the esteemed delegate Šarabu very much, but in this particular case, I don't think the argument is at all on his side. First, it cannot be determined by the Joint Commission, put before the House of Peoples as a congregation home and cannot be a priority before the House. Secondly, that meeting lasts, as far as we've heard from you, three days and I hope that for two days you will have the opportunity to be in full composition, and those who have planned will certainly not delay the trip just because of today. And thirdly, we appreciated the priority and importance of things. It is not a session of the commission and, as relevant as it is, I do not underestimate it at all, however, compared to the importance of the topic we have, and I have already explained the reasons why I and Mr Filipović and Mr Tihić have made this compromise. And in particular, I cannot accept that this is because the session is held in Trebinj. However, here we heard an objection. I don't think there's any need to plead that because the session is scheduled. We had a chance to hear a complaint. Are there any additions to the agenda? If it doesn't, we move to point one, it's "Ad." 1. Answers to Legislative Questions The answer to the delegate's question has been received by a delegate named Šaraba. My question is, is he satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1848	Mr. Chairman! 3
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1849	Only I would ask the gallery upstairs to be quieter because it's sounding good here, so you're distracting us.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1850	Since I received the answer about an hour ago, that the answer is very large and that it has very much material, I have failed to determine the accuracy of those things mentioned here, and therefore I will use my right to declare it at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1851	Thank you very much. Any new delegate questions? I've heard from Mr Filipović so far, so Mrs. Majkić, so Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1852	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will ask one question from several points to the Council of Ministers and this issue is supported by the entire Croatian Club in the House of Peoples. Since the implementation of the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH, as well as the coordination and development of higher education in BiH, is responsible for the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, and what is required to do with consultations with other relevant ministries, I ask: 1. Why the implementation of that law is implemented without cooperation with the cantonal, or county ministries, since the provision of Article III.4. b) The Constitution of the Federation of BiH, I quote: 'Determining education policy, including the adoption of rules on education and education insurance, prescribed as the exclusive jurisdiction of the canton, or county, rather than the Federation of BiH'. 2. In the process of implementing that law, in particular in order to establish the most important body of the State Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance in the process of proposing candidates for members of the Management Board of this Agency, as an independent administrative organisation, the decision of the Minister of Resoring of 27 February 2008 includes the Ministry of Education and Science of the Federation of BiH whose competences in the field of higher education are neither known to the Constitution nor the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH? 3. Whether and when the resolution minister withdraws the mentioned decision of 27 February 2008 laying down criteria for the selection and appointment of members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, since in four places, decisions in paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 have been mentioned in the three points, both entities or only the Federal Ministry of Education have been forgotten or deliberately abandoned. 4. In the contested decision on the definition and criteria for the selection and appointment of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency, the confusing text at the end of point 5 acts, I quote: 'The Ministry of Education and Culture of the Republic of Slovenia will include the candidates of the Department of Education of the Brcko District of BiH in a total of 4 candidates proposed.' Although the legal position of the District is clearly defined, the quoted text opens the question: Is the Brcko District of BiH or the District of RS? And as item 5: Why are the requirements of the University of Mostar and other universities in BiH presented to the resolution ministry being ignored, based on their remarks at the Council of Ministers, to establish amendments to the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH and delivery to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for consideration and adoption? I'd like an answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1853	Thank you very much, Mr. Filipović. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1854	The issue is addressed to the College of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. As we have been informed from the media, according to the BiH Prosecutor's Office yesterday, members of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection have excluded certain documentation on BH RTV's business. As we have been informed, SIPA, by order of the Prosecutors for General Crime, International Co-operation and Terrorism, has excluded certain documentation and related to the audit reports for 2005 and 2006 of this institution. The Joint College of the Two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH unanimously supported the House of Representatives' initiative and agreed to hold a debate at the joint session of the two Houses of Parliamentary Assembly on the subject: 'The business of the Public TV Service of BiH and measures to overcome the situation established by the audit reports on the financial operation of this service for 2005 and 2006'. The session of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly was planned to take place at the end of March or in early April, with the exact term being subsequently determined. Given the alarming situation in this public service, I ask the College to let me know when this session will be held? I beg your answer on the written path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1855	Thank you very much. I'm hoping that we'll have a joint college very soon, and we need to agree on that right now. Mr. Šaraba. All I need is a written question in the Rules of Procedure, and it's good.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1856	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I refer my delegate question to the Ministry of Security. 5 And that reads: What will the Ministry of Security do to address the problem of reducing the waiting time when the state border crossings between BiH and Montenegro at the border crossing of Sitnica towards Herceg Novi? Reason: A large number of BiH citizens who have recently crossed the state border towards Herceg Novi are now waiting for more than half an hour on the weekend, and in the season and two hours to cross the state border. During last year's visit to Montenegro and their Ministry of Security, the Joint Defence and Security Commission received information and assurances that formalities about issuing tourist passes to BiH citizens will be simplified. Unfortunately, nothing has been done in that direction, and I am asking the above question and I am asking a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1857	Thank you very much. Are there any more applications for questions? There isn't. I'm closing this agenda point, and we're moving on to the second item of the agenda, which is: ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 15th session of the House of Peoples You've got the record. Is anyone answering for a word? He's not answering. We're moving on to a plea. Prepare to vote. You can vote who is, in fact, no more "yes" than you can vote by a new method. Thank you very much. I find that the record was adopted with 14 votes, unanimously 14 votes "yes". We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's Ad. 3. A request from the House of Representatives to consider draft law on the independent and supervisory bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1860	Well, thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, so the House of Representatives suggested that we consider these two laws, therefore independent and supervisory bodies, as well as the Directorate for the Coordination of the Police Structure in BiH by emergency procedure, believing that it was either emergency laws or laws which are not so large and complex and that we could, whether, in principle, consider these laws in an emergency procedure, and which means that we are in a position as delegates to just debate and vote on these laws, take or leave. Thus, the entire home and the clubs, and neither the delegates in the House of Peoples, were given the opportunity to discuss such important issues in the regular procedure and to possibly try to amend and supplement these laws by amending the procedure. I cannot accept that these laws, or not, are not important, especially if someone or most, or those who have passed these laws in the House of Representatives, treat and plead reform laws. So these are very important areas. It is the establishment of seven, not one body, but seven bodies at BiH level, and I think it would be necessary for these laws to be discussed in a regular procedure in order to allow delegates of the House of Peoples, as well as other MPs to act on these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1861	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Mr. Koprivica. So I have already opened a debate on whether we will adopt the request to decide in accordance with Rule 142 of our Rules of Procedure. It's a debate now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1862	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers and others present, I would not agree with this proposal, or Mr. Rančić's comment, of Mr. Rančić's colleagues, purely for the very reason that this house, as the House of Representatives did in February, adopted the Razolucija on speeding up the BiH EU accession process. I will just read two first positions, I think the two first positions in this resolution, where: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly is unanimous in assessing that full EU membership is a strategic goal and a state policy and a major part of its foreign policy strategy. Inspired by the idea of meeting the obligations required by BiH to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement as soon as possible, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is asking all bodies and state institutions to step up activities related to the completion of reforms that will allow the signing of that agreement. 7 So this resolution, which we unanimously adopted at both home and home, obliges us to act as MPs, or delegates of each and every other home, in that very sense. So this proposal by Mr. Rančić to give the law, these laws are considered by regular procedure to be directly meant to the hair with what we decided a month and a half ago. I therefore propose that this procedure be followed in both the proposed and the agenda and that we consider these laws by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1863	Thank you very much. Is there more? Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1864	Dear colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed media and guests, I would like to make a contribution to this position by Mr. Rančić. Our people say there's a danger of delay. And we know exactly where and why the motions for a stay are coming from. All citizens of this country today, many international organisations in BiH and outside BiH, are keeping an eye on this session, waiting for what our decision will be. I really wouldn't have the cheek, it's the face in Bosnia, is it, Mr. Rančić, to say, "I'm sorry, you'll be waiting for our decision for who knows how long." There is no reason not to support such a request for this to go according to emergency procedures, and the Serbian People's Club will support such an attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1865	Thank you very much. Is there any further? Is it a replica? Mr. Rančić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1866	Thank you very much. So, respected colleagues from the Serbian people's club speak nicely. I would believe that at a session of February 25th, when we all worked here together, during the discussion of these laws, I was the one who proposed the conclusion to the House of Peoples. I can show you that, so you've all got it, in which I called for a conclusion calling on the EU and all other relevant factors... to sign the Stabilisation and Association Agreement immediately. And I'm just going to remind you that exactly the colleagues headed by colleague Dušanka Majkić, club president, voted against this conclusion. So they were against us signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement in February.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1867	Replica: Mrs. Majkić. So I'll explain that I'm also past the will of the Serbian people, I'm kidding, because it was a procedural mistake. Mrs. Majkić. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1868	I remember your initiative, Mr. Rančić, but you haven't finished your thought. It was said that the EU should sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, not awaiting the adoption of police reform laws. So, as far as I can remember, I told you: it's policymaking in a Balkan way and no one will accept it. And you saw that they were really persistent until the very end, that they said: no signing of the Stabilisation Agreement without the adoption of these two laws. So your ideas are just as good as they're real, the ones you've proposed haven't been real.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1869	Please, Mrs. Čolo answered first. And I ask: is it a discussion or is it a replica? Replica. Then you, then Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1870	So I understand completely Mrs. Majkić because if these laws pass today, representatives of the delegation in parliament from the RS should be happy. Because they have received a police reform that is not a police reform, which retains RS police in that capacity and with the work that has been done so far, and will also receive the Stabilisation and Association Agreement that we all want. So I understand her happiness because these laws go according to emergency procedures, but she has to understand us who think this isn't police reform and that we don't get police based on three European principles and you have to understand why we think these laws shouldn't go according to emergency procedures and, of course, we will respect the will of the majority and the results of the vote should decide.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1871	Thank you very much. I ask you around, it will be when, when we solve the procedure, there will be time for all these things, not to waste all arguments, and everything is the first point of the agenda, both of them. And the number of calls we can also limit by asking you to consider when you need to present the arguments, the key ones. Before you came forward, Mr. Rančić came to you first. First Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1872	Thank you very much. So, I've got the wrong quote. kolegica Majkić said that in my conclusion, I offered to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and without police reform, which is not true. Please take a good look at the proposal for a conclusion under number 02-50-1-16-12/08 of 25.2.2008. That's what it looks like, you all got it, I wrote it with my hand. And right in position (2) I proposed that all four conditions for the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement: co-operation with The Hague tribunal, public administration reform, service reform and police reform be contained under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. 9 So I also meant this reform, I did not avoid it, and it is not true what my colleague said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1873	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1874	Dear colleague Čolo, nothing has been won by the RS, we've only kept one consistent stance that we've held together from the very beginning with the other five leaders, so five leaders, this sixth, I forget, he's stepped down. We were just consistent until the end. What we signed in Mostar, we stayed consistent until the end and we got nothing, so we just stayed consistent that what was the deal and we realized it unlike your party.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1875	Thank you very much. I think we're clear on that now. Not yet. I insist on asking the secretary to see if there's any restrictions on the replicas to warn you that I won't do it yet until I get that Rules of Procedure but. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1876	Well, I can't agree with this, because... and the Mostar Declaration is based on police reform that is in line with three European principles. Let us... the interpretation of three European principles on our part is such that we believe that this is not a reform that is in line with these three European principles, and in that sense we think it is detached from the Mostar Declaration. But the interpretation is interpretation and... everyone has the right to interpret in their own way.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1877	We'll talk about the bottom line, please, if that's all right. Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1878	Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests and members of the Council of Ministers, I will immediately tell Čolo that I do not belong to those who are happy about what is going to happen today. These laws are likely to be passed. I'll just be unhappy. On the other hand, I'm trying in a rational way to address the issue. So, according to one job we need to do that doesn't have to be nice to us, but we have to... do it. And I immediately say that my personal position, the position of the Croatian People's Club in this home, is that we support the procedure proposed by the House of Representatives, because we don't think that it will compromise the essence. The essential remarks that some clubs and MPs had already had were mostly placed through the House of Representatives and there 10 received... and nothing significant would change in this house except that we might get a new delay indefinitely. And secondly, what I'm saying is, without the role of the arbiter, but try to achieve one completely neutral position. I do not believe that representatives of the Serbian club are pro-European-oriented when they talk about Europe, or that representatives of the Bosniak club are anti-European. In the background of all these efforts and attempts by the combiners, there is disagreement with the solutions that bring these two laws on the agenda. Not because of themselves, but because the Bošnjak are terribly afraid that it will be a model of constitutional reform, and then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1879	Thank you very much. Mr Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1880	Well, here, we've been having this debate all along about signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. As far as I know, that's not the agenda point. The point of the agenda is, among other things, to vote on the law in part, whether we take urgent action or not, and I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1881	Okay. I've been trying to say it all along that there's gonna be room to talk, because only after the law we're going. It's just procedure now. So there are no more voting applications, so I'm putting it to the vote for a statement on the procedure under Article 122. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Thank you very much. With four votes "against" and 10 votes "yes", with a sufficient entity majority, and in one case and another, a proposal has been adopted...... to declare this law under Article 122. I'm opening a debate about the law itself now, and I'm guessing if Mr. Lozančić isn't here, I'll open the debate. Is anyone picking up? Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1882	So, the Honorable Chairman!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1883	Here you go, I'm getting ready for the gentleman. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1884	Dear chairman, respected members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, here we are again today with a tape called police reform. And I'm really wondering why this session wasn't held on Monday, although here we have an interpretation of the first deputy, which is why today is how it is. Regardless, even if the House's session is more important than the Commission's session, this House should know that, at 12:00 today, the Defence and Security Commission needed to meet, that it is the organizer of the Regional Conference on Co-operation and Provided Assistance in Crisis and Natural Disasters, and that the conference is attended by... significant ambassadors and ministers from the countries of the environment. And today BiH will show that it is not a good host. It can't be this home either. Especially since there was no reason not to hold a session on Monday in this same composition. Therefore, some political parties and their leaders have perfectly enjoyed the role of losers and have not chosen a European path between the European Asian pathways. Not only did they do everything against their own people that these laws don't pass, because being against their people means not being part of European integration but also harming these other peoples who live here. By adopting such police laws by the House of Representatives, everyone thought that tensions had fallen and that the issue of confirmation by the House of Nations was only a matter of days. But then we fell into severe agony and daily thought about whether or not this session would come, if it did, how it would be done. Is anyone going to come to mind, and it's known to whom, who's going to be pulling a request to protect vital national interest, etc. So, for police reform from the very beginning, we know that we need a compromise and a deal. At the moment, SNSD and Party for BiH leaders tried to find him, accepting their responsibility, but also the seriousness of a political moment at which they had two opportunities. To accept these two laws and thus make a key step forward and allow this country to sink our way to the European future by signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, or to, like the SDA, a few more insignificant parties, without vision and any alternative solution for the country alone and isolated at the bottom of the European peoples' families, and to almost everyone, who asks us almost everyone to adopt these two laws to show political maturity and respect for each other's agreements. Once again, I remembered our brilliant Nobel laureate, Ivo Andrić, and his parable, "The Letter" of 1920, and should often remember this great writer and interpret the Bosnian reality that says: Perhaps in Bosnia, one should warn a man that at every step, in every thought and every supreme feeling, hatreds of born, unconscious, endemic hatreds, because this backward and poor country, in which four different faiths live, should be four times more love, mutual understanding and tolerance than other countries, and in Bosnia, there is no misunderstanding, which occasionally passes into open hatred, almost general characteristics of the population between various religions. The gaps are so deep that only hate manages to cross them sometimes. Closed quote. It's amazing how current Andrić is today, and it's amazing how much of that genius writer we haven't learned. A police organisation is an important internal issue for each country, especially complex states such as BiH. This issue must therefore be carefully considered and on 12 many compromises based. In every country, including in the European structure, police are monitoring the country's constitutional order. Some have tried to prove that the principle should not apply in BiH. So through a debate on police reform, they remembered everything called unrealised goals since the end of the war. Building international trust is a process. This is not imposed or built against the Dayton requirements for the removal of entities, the RS Police, by centralising everything and everything. As this is not possible, the SDA and the SDP have tried in every way possible to take away constitutional powers and make it an empty shell, and this is not the first time they've tried to do this, to try to prejudge constitutional solutions. The RS is protecting the constitutional order of BiH, as it does not agree to change the constitution beyond the constitutional procedure. Reforms are neither reform unless there is agreement on a solution or agreement on a solution. So, I want to believe that this final compromise will be reached today and an agreement between key actors in this process and in the name of the Serbian People's Club I say we will support the proposals of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1885	Thank you very much. Mr. Rajić, pa Ivanic, but before that, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, everyone, Mr. Sadović was answering his word. I suggest that Dom plead. We, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, can make it possible for the minister, but I think Mr. Rajić needs it first, and then Ivanić will, and then we will, Mr. Sadović. Therefore, Mr Sadović, in accordance with our rules of procedure, you... have the right to address, but no longer than 10 minutes, that is the only one. Here you go, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1886	So here, Mr. Chairman, once again, it seems kind of appropriate to me in the debate on the essence of these two laws, I'm trying to keep it a common, common topic, same point, I can relate to the thought that I ended up talking about the procedure, so I'm talking about an incredibly pronounced fear. Mrs. Majkić has in a certain way touched the question of our fears and mistrust. I wouldn't elaborate them in lyrical but some other dramatic interpretation, but the fact is that the question of trust and fear is something that lives with us and between us. And that we are invited to do so as people, as representatives of the peoples and citizens of BiH as a whole, make a great effort to reduce mistrust and fears. So what's this about when it comes to these two laws? I will agree with all those who say that these laws are neither in depth nor in breadth, nor in their content of reform in terms of what it means, both linguistic and legal. But they are – and that is why I said that I am neither happy nor unhappy, but fully aware of the responsibility to take this step that is being offered – they are a condition for us to get a card, to get a membership card and to enter the process of talking about our accession to Europe as our ultimate goal in which, hopefully, we all want to go equally, although we would like to enter Europe with different solutions. So I accept that if that wasn't the whole of the reform, and if those who weren't satisfied with it, I wouldn't put it in their sin, I wouldn't put it in their account. I understand their 13 misunderstandings and not accepting such reforms but I have no understanding of their final refusal. So, in that sense, we will support, so again I speak, and as a club, and I will individually support these solutions, convinced that they represent a ticket to a European roadway and that they represent a starting station on a road that will be called a deep and true reform. Why am I talking? I purposely pointed out the words of deep and true reform in order to indicate that our enthusiasms were, there was today a talk here that there was joy, that there was sadness. I've witnessed the time since '96. so we say when there were euphoric moods among these three or four parties that are dominantly still making up the parliamentary majority in BiH today. There were euphoric moods and we who were then skeptics or who pointed to the logic of this euphoria were shown in different ways, it doesn't matter now, so... wider. I will remind you that when the first initiative to change the Constitution and bring about the life of a phantom phenomenon, a legal, political and moral one called the constitution of the people, I was one of those representatives who then said in the Federal Parliament that if that means one third of equal rights for three sovereign constituent nations, if that means participation as spices in food, we are not interested in that story, if that means being counted in the preamble of the Constitution, we are already that now. And I said then that true reforms cannot be implemented in the current constitutional and territorial structure of BiH as a state. The euphoria has passed. Unfortunately, at the time, many Bosniak representatives seemed euphoric, as if they had touched the zenith of all possible desired solutions, and I knew they were wrong. She came in 2001. Constitutional solutions have been imposed, and today we have pure political cartoons from the constitutionality of the people. Out of the consistency of the people, we have solutions that have handed half the country into absolute power to one constituent sovereign nation, the other half to the other constituent sovereign people, one third people from the statistics turned into a political minority. So I look back at these legal solutions and I remind myself of the need for euphoria and I remind myself of the surface in approach when we are not looking at content and essence, but we are subject to form. I am here to make future reforms that are true, which have content, which have a clear definition and, preferably, with the highest possible degree of consent of all of us in this country. But I assure you and I claim that never true reform in this country can be implemented in the existing constitutional legal order. So, the first assumption that any partial reform is being talked about is to redefined the Constitution in a way that is possible. I don't want to be a prophet, so let me put it this way. But this constitution simply does not allow for any real reform and, as long as it is as it is, we will deal with the periphery and every day one of us representatives of the peoples and citizens will be terribly dissatisfied, repressed, we will feel deceived, too loud, etc. Another aspect of the problem, which seems perfectly appropriate to me, and I am obliged to do so as a member of a people who feels terribly suppressed in this country, the Croatian people in BiH are truly feeling severely suppressed and suppressed, so that those who advocate reform in the direction of strengthening the central functions of government, the state authorities, should have an understanding of our fears. So, I just showed a human understanding for the fear of Bošnjak that this is a model of constitutional reform and we fear terribly, but fear will not help us. However, we must face fear to find some solution and stop being afraid. So, what I'm saying is that insisting on strengthening the state is the way it's being read in the Federation by the Bosniak majority, and so there will be no reform. What has been done in the Federation in recent months, especially what has been going on for 14 days, is the best recommendation that all of us, who have a constitutional position, are scramblingly defending not to give a single millimeter to move towards BiH. Because, gentlemen, in the Federation, what did not happen in the darkest times of Tito Yugoslavia when Belgrade was Bog, a court, and a paradise. Therefore, I call on you, representatives of the majority people, both in the Federation and in BiH, to provide us with political, human and moral guarantees that the extraction of functions from the level of entities, i.e. canton and municipalities will not be abused in the way it is misused in the Federation. Without it, we will keep going round and round and, believe me, we will always be on the waiting list for Europe, this is who we are, never will Europe receive. That is why I call you all together: we are doing reforms that will be true and let us abandon the voting instrument that is desperate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1887	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. The word was requested by the president, Dr Ivanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1888	My colleagues and colleagues, I'm probably one of the longest in police reform talks, most directly. When I look at how many days and different places I've visited BiH for a team of coffees and all the meetings, not only in BiH but also outside, it's surprising every detail, minors, so I know and know how the political mood was moving. The biggest problem with this reform is that it has been transformed from the very beginning into a political topic in which the winners were sought and defeated. And especially those who initially led it, which defined it under the efficiency firm, were in fact imposing unnecessary conflicts on BiH over one topic that should not have gone this far and that it lasted as long as it lasted. But it's the responsibility of the people who initially imagined it. And then all the actors brought into a very difficult position where there were supposed to be winners and defeated. I think very directly about people who have come up with a reform of their own time and who have defined it primarily as political rather than the right to raise co-operation and efficiency as it initially went. And, of course, that then the reform got a space where you couldn't achieve consent. It would be very nice to have this law passed, let's say, unanimously in the House of Nations, because its ultimate result is our signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. And political actors were brought up with one big promise at the beginning that it would be the end, I don't know, maltene, so concept into some new constitutional reform, and I don't know what, that it's very difficult today, from an event that was supposed to be a solemn event, to allow us to go, we got an event that, I'm sure, will also have a political repercussion later on. The subject of efficiency has long been lost here. This is a battle, a battle over the essence of BiH. That, unfortunately, has turned into it and, as always, compromises must be made in such matters. And the compromise said roughly: this is possible, more than this, right now, it's not possible! And that, my opinion, by adopting this law will not stop our political fire dialogues, on the contrary, there will probably be more of them, and the police, but also some other things, because it always opens in BiH. So it would be good if, without suggesting anything, the theme for our talks would be BiH such a country that it will last, who knows how much longer, as it has been in the past, and my suggestion to try, indeed, somehow narrow down 15 discussions and, however, is to lead to a statement about today, because I think we all know that decisions, which and how we're going to vote, none of us here today present, are going to change on the basis of some difficult words towards each other, but we're going to try somehow...this will lead to the end. This is kind of my suggestion. I think the public, if anything, knows everything. I don't think there are any more people in BiH who haven't heard about the police reform story, even superficially. There's no law that had the kind of attention that he had this one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1889	Thank you very much, Dr Ivanic. So, before we give the word to the Minister of Security, the word was sought by the president of the Croatian People's Club, Mr Branko Zrno. Branko, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1890	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, representatives of the media, all of you who are here in any function, I welcome you all. And basically, I answered without thinking that Mr. Ivanic would hit the center with his last sentence. I have responded exclusively for saying, perhaps, in a different form, what Mr Ivanić said with his last sentence, which at the same time, even though I understood so, was also an invitation for us not to renovate and repeat today everything we have said, not only in the past days, but also in the past weeks. I'm sorry, but these police structure laws in BiH are not the subject of the day. Of course, I'm paraphrasing that BHT1 show even though it's been at least three or four times and that kind of, or that targeted theme of the day. They're not even the theme of the week, they're the theme of the month, maybe even the theme of the quarter. I think that, indeed, everything that has been said, that is said, everything that is opposed, that is publicly opposed, everything that has been established, determined, behind which it cares, that it is both determined and determined, and that it cares. Unfortunately, there's no movement. I also publicly said on television that I'm sorry, especially sorry that the SDA is like the biggest bh. The party, against passing laws like this, because they'll never be... what they'd be with them is the SDA. Secondly, I am sorry that today, although I know that we have called this session today, because of Mr. Tihić, I am truly and personally sorry that he is not present today, but that Bog gives him health to be well, and there will be time for the presence of this house. And that's why I'd like to have our discussions or, uh, we don't have a lot of new things to say, by repeating what we said, not to deepen our mistrust. I would regret that, however, the hands that want to be on one of these tasters are, however, hands of trust because, let's be honest, we today, by the circumstances, have been brought into a situation: take it or leave it! But we were brought here to be eventually brought into this situation! We've led ourselves to this situation, and we've led back to this situation for three and a half years. So it had to happen once. If it wasn't today, then it would be next week or next month or next year again. In view of the way it was discussed, the way it was decided and the way that certain solutions occurred, we had to come 16 before what we today call take or leave. Today we need to either take or leave and finally define our position. What's happening to us right now is a terrible tromo, terriblely inert, actually horrifying in the face of the challenges and the jobs that are waiting for us. We can't and we don't have the right to continue in such an inert, tromomous tone. Yes, my colleague Božo said our position. I don't need to repeat it, and I personally think and personally look forward to the moment when we enter one agreement, at least at the beginning of an integrated European process, not just because of it, not only because it's still a fluid, which is still, let's say, a hunch, even though we know what European values are, but I hope that this is the first step towards European values so that we don't have what, I won't repeat again, what my colleague Rajić said and what I could supplement but I won't, I think it's quite enough. So I ask you colleagues not to waste our energy, not to repeat in vain what we have said a hundred times, that we do not speak in vain of the principles... which we all know, that we accept one in vain, or try to read from these laws, and others try again, through the law to show that there are no principles in them at all. The story will remain the same, everything will remain only at the level of the story. According to this, a story that remains at its own level is a pointless and unnecessary story. I apologize for saying this, because everyone has the right to say what they want to say, but now I'm going to say a little bit and practically. I'd like to get all these jobs done a little faster today so that six of us, here from this summons, can come in time to the same very important place and talk to our neighbors. Thank you very much, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1891	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. Mr. Koprivica asked for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1892	Mr. Chairman, I will propose, given the link between points 3 and 4, that the debate on these two police laws be held in the field of police reform, we lead the debate...to unite the debate, as we would not repeat later on this..., that is, by the next law of the same discussion or similar discussion. I think that... it would be educational for this proposal to be declared by the House, and that, of course, according to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the statement goes individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1893	Thank you very much. I, just a little bit of methodologically want to remind you all, all of us. We're only talking about one law right now, and no one's said a word about that law yet, just that, yes, of course, the content of the law, but okay. That, we understand each other, which only creates an introduction to me for, hopefully, at the second point, we're not going to do this again, when it's the next point. So I'm not limiting it. 17 According to our Rules of Procedure, meetings can be held. We are proposed not by the Council of Ministers but by the House of Representatives, but they may and may have the right to speak if the chairman approves. I allow the word 10 minutes, no more, Mr. Sadović, Minister of Security.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1894	Thank you, Chairman, for demonstrating high democratic capacity unlike the House of Representatives... Your colleagues who have denied me one subject to my portfolio. So, respected chairmen and deputies, esteemed delegates, fellow ministers, respected media and civil sector representatives, the truth is, indeed, best sought in facts, of course, to inform and political views, so let me remind you of a brief chronology of these facts concerning police reform. So police reform was announced in mid-2004 when ex-Belgian Prime Minister Vilfred Martens led the Police Reform Commission. Martinez's commission drafted the report but was rejected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. ... Europe supported Martinez' plan. Political negotiations then took place throughout our beautiful BiH, from Vlasic, Mrakovica, Bjelašnica, Hut's mud and Konak residence. Since RS has always been guilty of failures, and police reform in the European Commission's feasibility study has been an important prerequisite for the start of negotiations on BiH's Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU, then RS President Dragan Čavić and Milorad Dodik went to the then-high representative Eždaun the OHR and convinced him, the US and British ambassador, that their proposal for an agreement is a framework for police reform. In October 2005, state and entity parliaments confirmed it. BiH has launched Stabilisation and Association negotiations. The Council of Ministers then established a Directorate for the Implementation of Police Restructuring in BiH, composed of domestic and EU experts. After a year, the Directorate finished the job. A plan has been developed to implement police structures reform in BiH. This Council of Ministers took office on 9.2.2007 but never put the Plan on the agenda in which an EU representative participated. At least five times I asked the chairman to be considered at the Council of Ministers. Also, this parliament has never discussed a plan that had EU support and was in line with three principles. I remind you that the adoption of the plan was a condition for signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Europe therefore supported the police reform plan that did the Directorate but did nothing to anyone. The Mostar Declaration of Obligation to implement police reform aimed at paraphrasing and signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed by six political leaders on 28.10.2007 and allowed the paraphrasing of the agreement. The Mostar Declaration stresses that police reform must be carried out in line with three principles, and that is an unquestionable fact. Therefore, there are absolutely no estimates that... someone has given up their signature on the Mostar Declaration. Afterwards, the Action Plan and a working group were adopted to draft the necessary laws. The task force has never reached consensus on the law, although the decision-making process by consensus was 18 explicitly prescribed. If there was no consensus, there could be no law. Then there's a political tie. The chairman of the Council of Ministers takes over the working materials of the law and, counter-businessly, proposes to the Council of Ministers, although he cannot be an authorised proposer. The Council of Ministers then adopts illegal proposals by revoted ministers from the SDA and the Party for BiH. What was in the parliamentary commission, you know: about 60 amendments, none of them were adopted! And who he is and when he showed his desire to compromise, it's... unfathomable to me. Then we got three times two laws, actually the same law, and it's an emergency procedure, and finally, here's another one, let me say, hybrid law, compromise over completely irrelevant things. After five years things are upside down and upside down. I claim that neither of the three European principles is incorporated into the proposed law, and that it should not be established to be any expert. The entity and cantonal police will continue to work under their laws, spend their budgets and be under the control of their politicians. What is now being offered is a reform with a factory mistake. The Coordination Directorate and Police Support agencies will co-ordinate each other but co-ordinate already co-ordinated state police agencies, Border Police and SIPA. Let me quote the director of the RS police, so the statement he made in February 2007. I quote: We need one body at BiH level to coordinate all police structures at both local and state level, which in certain cases may play a commanding role. It's a finished quote. Also, ask any experts, and they'll tell you the same thing. The head of the EU Police Mission, General Coppola, then said that our country needs an efficient and transparent police structure without political influence, with a budget and legislation at the state level, and a single chain of command. Watch out, please, command, not coordination. He was also an EU representative at the time, only of course the story changed. Why wouldn't the Police Body Coordination Directorate, along with existing powers, organise, direct and agree all police in BiH, plan, carry out strategic and operational activities by police authorities in BiH, in line with the state's police plan? Why not coordinate all police during the declaration of state of emergency and all issues of security interest arising from decisions of the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers? And most importantly, why don't you settle disputes in the event of a jurisdictional conflict. You have 15 police agencies and conflicts of jurisdiction are a daily matter. We are setting up a new Agency for Forensic Studies and Arts to meet only about 5% of the overall forensic needs of BiH police agencies. Instead of uniting existing resources in this extremely expensive area, we are further simmering. In addition, the SIPA Internal Organisation Regulation already provides for forensics, meaning some stereo technique. A new Agency for Schooling and perfecting police officers will be established to work in the SIPA and the Border Police. When we fill in the SIPA and the Border Police, are we going to shut down this agency or are we going to turn it into an evening police school? Wouldn't it be smarter and cheaper to pool the resources of both the police academy in Sarajevo and Banja Luka so we could train and train police officers and inspectors for all police and private security? I ask you, here I am, what will the police support agencies do? I can't find an answer except that it will support its own survival on the cost of budget users. 19 The Independent Committee should be an independent body of the Parliamentary Assembly, with powers to conduct the selection of police managers for all agencies, and not only for the directors of the SIPA and the Border Police. Do we need a body that will be selected by two directors once every four years? We've chosen the director of the SIPA recently. So, this committee should choose... for the next four years... Director of the Border Police, if Vinko Dumančić retires. This committee should also decide on the ethnic principle. The Board of Appeals of Police Officers is an independent body of the Council of Ministers, but already exists, at the Ministry of Security, as a second-degree body and works, of course, for needs.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1895	Mr. Minister, you only have two minutes left. Just to warn you, since I guess, how it's going, it's going to take a while.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1896	Okay. I've got five minutes, maybe, but here, if you say so, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1897	Two minutes, I was...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1898	I have often listened to assurances that this is only the first phase of reform, that then the second one follows. And what are the guarantees and who gives those guarantees? Does anyone seriously consider the guarantee to be a Mostar Declaration or these two amendments that have been as a compromise. There is therefore no guarantee that the police reform process will continue. In the absence of arguments, only foggy... stories and foggy hopes are launched by the public, because after four years of taping in place, we have received a reform that practically changes nothing, except that the normal work of the Ministry of Security is further made more difficult. Given the time limit, allow me, the chairman, to conclude with one political assessment – that this reform represents a great victory for politicians and politicians from the RS, because they have been saying no, no, no, no and no in the end, what they were looking for. No reform, no three principles! It didn't turn into a yes! Now you're European boys, and these others are against it. That's enough talking about Europe, but it's enough about us.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1899	Thank you very much. Mr. Rančić. _________(?) 20 [[no microphone turned on]] So are you, are you a replica? It's for the replica, isn't it? Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1901	First, before I say the line, Mr. Chairman, I want to ask you, in what capacity did you give the former debater the opportunity to speak, and we haven't heard a member of the House of Representatives who came as a proposing to speak his mind? We didn't hear him. We heard a man come in, I don't know, what property! He is a minister, but he has nothing to do with these laws. So I resent you for that. That's the first thing. The second, Mr Sadović, as you said, you showed, you thanked Mr Ivanic for his democratic principle to allow you, although you did not have the right to speak, because you did not speak for the purpose of which you should speak, but came as a member of the SDA, not believing that your club could be sufficiently representative, so you came to help him. I want to ask you, is this a democratic performance... Yours, which was used only to attack the RS? It's not that, Mr. Sadović, for the first time, we know you well. But what I want to tell you. You will remain - please do not throw away, and I ask you to behave in the spirit of the person attending the session of the highest legislative body - so for you, RS will remain the eternal culprit for all the evil that is happening here! And we have no intention of dealing with you and correcting the wrong Drina in that part. We're going to do everything to make it really better for us, and we're not going to do anything that's going to be against... or anything that's going to be against other peoples, and I remind you that what you're saying, I realized, in fact, what your problem is. Of the six leaders who signed the Mostar Declaration, you were the only one who gave up, only your leader changed his mind and you were the only one who thought that the reform of constitutional and reform could be implemented through police reform laws. Now, you've been wrong, and I'm not the only one telling you that – I know that, in order for it to be the least difficult for you – that's what everyone in this country, except your party, tells you. So, please, in the future spare us your words that are exclusively party when you appear in this house and you are not a lawmaker.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1902	Thank you very much. First, before Mrs. Čolo and the replicas on this replica, I want to say this. I offered the proposer to speak. The promoter said there's no need for now. So I gave it a chance just to explain my role. Secondly, article 63 says: Every MP or other participant of the House of Nations session can speak when asked and receive a word from the chairman, but no longer than 10 minutes. And I took advantage of business law and gave my word. Here, I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure, but I took advantage of it positively. The next member says that you only know, in 64, about the length of the replica: it can't be longer than three minutes. I'll measure the length of time from now on. Mrs. Čolo. Here you go. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1903	Mr. Chairman, I am truly surprised by this tone that Mrs. Dušanka Majkić, a distinguished delegate in this House, addresses the Minister at the Council of Ministers. As he spoke, she said from her bench that it didn't make sense and... she threw it away, and then she told him that he didn't throw it when she spoke, which I don't think is appropriate and that it wasn't an adequate debate going on in front of this house. I think we should have respect for each other. At least that's how I behave in this home, and I expect others to do the same. Mr. Sadović spoke as security minister and the promoters outside the House of Representatives had no need, at least they didn't feel the need to give an opening statement on the history of police reform in BiH. I think his exposure was very useful and from the point of view that four agencies – the Police Coordination Directorate, the Forensic Studies Agency, the Staff Training Agency – will be administrative organisations within the Ministry of Security and he is certainly competent that as a minister in whose composition we today establish four state bodies as administrative organisations that are subordinate and are within its composition, certainly competent to comment on this aspect and to allow him to speak as such. I thank you for respecting his request to address Parliament today and I think that his address was also very useful for the public of BiH, as well as for all those who did not participate in police reform. I've had the opportunity to participate in police reform and... I know a lot more details than some who haven't been in that reform.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1904	Thank you very much. Mr. Rančić, and Ibrahimpašić. That's where the list of people reported ends.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1905	Thank you very much, thank you very much, President. So in the first part is... a kind of replica to my colleague Majkić. Namely, the distinguished colleague Majkić often speaks, here today at this session, or a little threatening, or giving some flat-rate reviews that are not based on anything, nor on any evidence, or facts or reading certain lessons, which I don't think belongs to her or any of us, is whether, at this or any other session. Well, about that, colleague Majkić speaks and mentions an Asian or Asian way. I don't know what she meant when she said it and who she meant. I cannot understand that my colleague Majkić has something against Asia, especially considering that Russia, most of Russia, is in Asia, so now that it is against Asia or against Russia, Bog save it, or maybe because in Asia is held the Olympics, is it, this summer? I don't understand those things. Or because the world championship was in South Korea and Japan. I don't really understand those relationships, and it would be nice to have those things explained to us, of course, without being left with any unspeakable statements of that kind. Also, sometimes, when it suits her, this house sees only as a home that confirms things behind the House of Representatives, and sometimes, when it does not suit her, it advocates full, full capacity, full capacity of the House of People! 22 But it is not the essence of my story in this part as well as her statement about who gave up this declaration! Mr Špirić, chairman of the Council of Ministers, was the first to give up this declaration in a way that he took the right to draw up texts of the law concerning police reform, based on the Mostar Declaration and the Action Plan and the Framework Plan. He wasn't authorized to do that. If he was authorized, why did he form a task force that was supposed to do that text, those texts of the law? Then the ministers from the Party for BiH and the SDA voted, yes! Then they did not want to respect the amendments she insisted on, all the time, the Party for BiH and, ahead of the House of Representatives' meeting, was blackmailed by the Prime Minister's chairman that unless such laws were passed, he would resign. Of course, about resigning, I didn't... believe it, because I know that a man... will, the Honorable Prime Minister, love this place. I mean, he agreed to it once, so as soon as this, you know, changed a little bit, he agreed to be prime minister again. God Bog there was a third time, I'm sure he'd agree to be the chairman of the Council of Ministers again. When are these laws at stake? These laws are absolutely contrary to three European principles. The laws provided for do not provide for that legislative and budgetary competence for all matters of the state-level police. Political interference in the operational work of police is not prevented, especially at local level, and functional local police areas have to be established on the basis of technical criteria for police work, and operational command would be implemented at local level. These two laws don't predict it within themselves. So these laws do not lead, nor will they lead to the creation of a functional, professional, multiethnic police force that will protect all people and all protected goods in BiH. These laws... predict a fictitious... police reform. So even their names or stories about reform are not true. These laws could be called the laws on the establishment of seven bodies... at the level of BiH. Namely, the establishment of seven new bodies at the level of the state, which would not have any fundamental or actual jurisdiction, would have no jurisdiction towards the cantonal and entity police and the Brcko District police, and would have jurisdiction only for police authorities at the state level, and these are, as we know, the SIPA, popularly called, whether, the Agency for Investigation and Protection, as well as the Border Police. I'm glad that Mr. Nović, the Honorable Minister, is here to sit with us and we worked together in the task force. There was also Mr. Dumančić, who has been the head of the Border Police for several years and there, and I am here, and I will ask the question again: that I cannot believe that SIPA and the Border Police, out of all 15 police bodies that exist in BiH, are such the worst, and that because of them, their work, or their unwork and management by these two men, they are so disastrous that we at the level of BiH have to establish seven new bodies that, for God's sake, would focus and focus all our work... according to these two police bodies. I cannot accept that when it comes to co-ordination of work only by SIPA and the Border Police and, by the way, I repeat the thing that we should all know, that these are administrative organisations within the Ministry of Security, so I cannot understand that two directors are unable, together with the Ministry and the Minister of Security, to coordinate these two police bodies, but it is necessary to establish new seven bodies that will only interfere with the work, interfere with the work of these police bodies. Also, I can't accept that when you look at the Directorate's Law, so that's, that's the key competences of this communications directorate. I once again draw attention to the fact that communication 23 is no jurisdiction. It is unfortunate what the writers of these laws wrote that the first word is in the jurisdiction of communication. Communication is a means, and this one, here in the exercise of jurisdiction. It's also a telephone conversation, it's a joint official meeting, it's also sending a dispatch and every other kind of communication, and I can't accept that, in these few years of work and the existence of the SIPA and the Border Police, there was no communication, so that now, because they couldn't, they knew etc. to communicate, we must pass a law establishing a governing organization that will do what. To communicate between these two, between these two police bodies! Also,...so I cannot accept the following facts which are contained in these laws. That's what I've been talking about both on the task force and on the Commission for Defence and Security and in this home, and I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again. Namely, some of these bodies, which you now, who advocate these laws, are already in existence. Well, please, delegates, who want to vote for this bill, I've been saying it a few times, look at Articles 121 and 122. The Law on Police Officers, published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 27/04, and you will see that there is a Police Committee in this country as a second-degree body that resolves whether, as a second-degree body, it is on state-level status issues. We have, so we simply have in BiH a second-degree body that handles for members of the SIPA and the Border Police! So can you allow yourself to strive to bring it, to pass the law that duplicates it, to establish the same body. If you don't believe me, take it and read it, and I have one of the copies, is that, that law, that very page that says, here in Article 121. Chapter 14 – Police Committee ( Establishment and Role) and here says that it is a second-degree police force, whether, as a second-degree body, it is about status issues of police officers. I cannot accept that in this home there are delegates who want to... duplicate the organs and show so much ignorance of the legal system... our states. It's the same situation, same situation in the field of forensics. We have it in the Federation MUP, we have it in the RS MUP, we have it at the Tuzla Clinical Center, related to DNA analysis – you all know it – we have it planned as an organisational unit within the SIPA. It can be confirmed by the minister, but it's not filled. Well, we've got a state-level artificial engineering unit, forensics, it's not filled, and then we close our eyes and say no, we need to establish an extra one agency at the state level that's going to do it all. And the people of the profession know that if we gathered all the experts from this area, from all levels and all the equipment, it wouldn't be enough or enough, would it, for quality experts and skills in BiH. But we all close our eyes to it and let's start another agency that will have jurisdiction. Over who? Over the SIPA and the Border Police. Because the bodies established by this law have absolutely no jurisdiction over local police bodies. ...is the same in the field of education. We have it in the framework of the RS MUP, we have it here in Sarajevo, so whether or not we have an organisational unit within the Border Police. I'm sorry there's no director of Dumančić here. In fact, all the members of the Defence and Security Commission know that police officers are being trained within the Border Police, is that they have an organisational unit for that. And now, what do we have to do after all this? We need another agency that – if we have schools in the Federation, if we have school, education system in RS, if we have for the Border Police – this agency that we are establishing: who will she educate? It's just the SIPA members, isn't it? And when, uh, how many of them fill in their officers, what are we gonna do with her, are we gonna close her down? At the same time, the system of education is completely diverse from case to case, in different ways, unquality, inefficient, etc., etc. So 24
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1906	Is it over? One more minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1907	Here's a little bit more, Your Honor, I'm asking you not to count my line, the three minutes there before and, here, if I'm going to... reduce the part of my discussion about 10 minutes on the second bill, that would be 23 minutes, and I'll, of course, be less than that 23 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1908	If you intend to do so much, next time report for the second day's work.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1909	When we look at certain provisions of these laws, here we can start with the Law on Independent and Supervisory Authorities, responsiblely saying that the Independent Committee is not at all an independent and supervisory body as it is set up in this law. Why? When you look at his entire jurisdiction, he is in a dry competition commission, which will implement the procedure, i.e. only advertising for police chiefs, border police, SIPA and these directorates, if adopted, and proposed up to five mandates, and the minister will go to the Council of Ministers. So we have the same procedure that now elects the SIPA police chiefs and the Border Police. So why are we introducing a new body, to be the permanent body of this House, which will be four years, which will be paid and so on.? Also, when it comes to this Independent Committee, the provision of Article 4 of the Law on the structure of the Independent Committee, attitude (1), which says: The Independent Committee has nine members, three Bošnjak, three Hrvat and three Srbin, which is contrary to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This provision eliminates members of national minorities, citizens... and other BiH citizens to be members of this Independent Committee, which is contrary to the said act that applies directly and primarily in BiH. What does that mean? That it is against this provision! The provision of Article 6(2), which prescribes the way the Independent Committee works, shall be such as to prescribe a national vote on this committee. Namely, Article (2) says: The decision of the Independent Committee shall be valid if it is voted by seven members of the Independent Committee. If you link this to Article 4(1), which speaks of the composition of the Independent Committee: three Bošnjak, three Srbin and three Hrvat, you see that any decision by this Independent Committee requires at least one vote from each constituent people. And then, that means that members of one constitutive people always, forever, every question that's being decided on this committee, can stop, not voting on this thing. This provision of Article 6(2) in the national vote is contrary to Article 2(5) of the same law, which says: The Independent Committee acts exclusively on professional grounds, not representing, not protecting, nor undermining the interests of any political party, registered organisation or association or any other people in BiH. This means that the Independent Committee is not a body that protects the constitutionality or vital national interest, but a professional professional professional body, and the 25 issue of constitutionality and vital national interest, which is indisputable to me, is protected by some other authorities and in some other procedures. So, I could speak in such a series of words about other powers and other bodies, here's what I'm going to do to make sure that I take note of the chairman-in-chief-in-Office. Let me just finish my discussion, in a way that introduces such fictitious quasireform is an obsession for essential reform! So, we now at the state level, within the Ministry of Security, have two administrative organizations, Interpol, Foreign Office, we'll get seven more fictitious bodies, four directors, three presidents, five deputy directors, secretaries, drivers, fics, cell phones, cars, offices and other expenses. But, more dangerously, I fear this is a trend to introduce fictitious reforms in BiH, which would be the most dangerous, most devastating for the reform of the Constitution that is necessary for all BiH citizens, which is a condition for BiH's EU accession. These are the reasons why I will not support as a member of the Party of Democratic Action as a delegate to the House of Peoples of these laws because they are not reform. This is neither a step nor an initial step away from BiH's police structure reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1910	Thank you very much. Mr Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1911	Here I am going to tell you that I really didn't mean to discuss this here at all. We've spent a lot of money. If it hadn't been for this discussion from the beginning, this debate, I wouldn't have answered. Why? Because we all know how this vote ends. Like what was with, are you gonna do this rush procedure or, as it's called, so we all know. This is unnecessary. We're trying to convince each other now, and we know that no one can convince anyone, but one thing I want to know. I will vote here according to my conscience. I'll vote against, because I think these laws are bad or there was no constitutional assumption of making them better. And you all say they're bad but there's another one now. Now somebody says you won't sign the agreement... if you don't vote for it! It's none of my business. My duty in this assembly is to vote on the quality of the law that is before us. According to me, these laws are not good and... I'll vote against, and it's a finished story. And let us vote, and let it pass, and let us finish this! What happens later, we'll see?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1912	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1913	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow delegates, gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues from the House of Representatives, media representatives and other guests, may be better off if I gave up the discussion. So I had no intention of really getting involved in discussion 26 on this matter. It was enough for me to address and how the president of the club spoke, but here, listening to a part of the comment, here I can't stay this abstention and not say anything about this either. The story or the thesis of the RS is to blame for this and for what, I think there's really no more room for it and there's no more sense. And I'm really sorry, Minister, but your discussion has asked me to answer, because I think we've been through this time to accuse each other in this way and that way of accusing us personally, I don't think it's going to get us anywhere. I think that we've been through and over and that we need another way, means talking, discussing and simply fulfilling these obligations. RS is part of BiH, has a position, has its position on all issues. So, of interest to BiH but also of interest to RS, provided it does not endanger the interests and rights of anyone in this country. I think it's clear to everyone and, look, I've just said something else that's familiar to everyone. Now, as far as these bills are concerned, I'm going to do something about it. I find this whole story very interesting for another reason. The international community has accepted the proposed laws as a condition for the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and for the continuation of the process for BiH's entry into the EU. I'm really interested in it now as a man and as an individual: why are we trying to deny the proposed laws and open the story that this isn't enough, that this isn't right and that the proposals of these laws should be changed one way or another and add something else? If we've been fighting to get the conditions for signing this agreement and looking for space to sign this agreement, now here we are in such a position and opening up, even though this is a condition, we are now opening these stories on these laws. I can't explain it to myself. And to me, I say, this is exactly what's interesting. So I would agree with a lot of discussions, what Mr. Rajić said, and for me it is now in this time: it is our reality. So I accept that as simple. That's what we can do now to continue our work further in this process. I don't think we have winners on this issue and we have losers. Really, I don't want to think about it that way and I don't see it that way. So, regardless of whether someone or today or whether at a House of Representatives session some MPs have supported these bill proposals, some have voted against, or some have been abstentions, the same means today, probably, here as Ibrahimpašić's colleague said, we can assume today's vote at this House session on this matter and I expect it to be, meaning that this law will also get support at this session and that there will be a colleague who will not support this. But I don't think now that those who will support this law that they are here today are the winners or those who won't declare this law, here, as counterpart Rančić said he is now a loser. I don't think so. So it just means it's just such a solution, so it goes away. I'm sorry to say this, but with all due respect to you, Minister, as Minister, I'm sorry to say this, after all we've heard in so many years about this police reform, for this session today, I'm speaking for myself, your discussion today was unnecessary for me. Thank you. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1914	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Neimarlija, and let Mr. Vidović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1915	Gentlemen, the chairman, fellow delegates, ministers, representatives of NGOs, media, guests, I will state a few reasons why I voted for the adoption of these laws under the urgent procedure and the consequences that I will give my vote for these laws. The first is: the conditions for the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement are ensured by their adoption. And, as the official representatives of the European institutions, the most significant European countries, and the United States have made it clear that without the adoption of these laws, there is no European signature and I think it is unserious to try to convince the Bosnian Herzegovina public that the signature could be secured without these laws. So, by giving my voice to these laws, I am actually voting for an institutional step on the European path, i.e. to institutionalise our steps on the European path. The second reason is: the procedural character of these laws, the formal-legal openness of their content. That someone can understand as a lack, and this is their fundamental imperfection in which I see their value, and we know that because of their essential imperfection, or openness, it was possible to accept them. But these are the laws that have this procedural nature, and I believe it will actually start the process with the insurance, this signing of the Stabilisation Agreement, will actually open the process of passing the laws that we need. And, as far as they're worth by themselves, they're worth by the laws, whose adoption they're actually supposed to imply. And should I stress that, basically, all European integration, basically all European integration stands for the harmonisation of the legal system of European countries and the legal integration that monitored economic initiatives and economic processes and before... political and political integration of European countries. Finally, the third reason is subjective, but based on the facts they give me, they provide some kind of reality of my expectations. And it coincides with the desire expressed by the esteemed colleague Professor Zrno, when he said that we are actually politically spinning in the place, that we are groping, that our political life is done as it is, staticly, and that the adoption of these laws, whose shortcomings I am perfectly aware of, as well as all of us here, should actually initiate this one process of movement, I would say, not only on this formal and legal ground, but also on the development of this one political consciousness and that I expect them, namely, from the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the initiation of the process and in social, not only in the political but in the social and mental structures of BiH. I expect a beneficial, therefore positive action against all these shortcomings that these laws have, I expect that with the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, much will change and, among other things, this ruling discourse with us, or the duality. Unfortunately for us today, it has proved to be two speeches in our political and, unfortunately, media life as well. A speech of self-praising and a speech of indignity in mild or minor variations, even when it comes to making eminent political decisions, and real political decisions are not decisions for 28 that we know in advance are good, correct. It's easy to make decisions where we choose between what we know is totally good and what's the opposite of what's totally evil, decisions are political ones where we have 51% reasons for, and 49% against or vice versa. We here,... said that politics is not choosing between good and bad but making, choosing between bad and less bad decisions to work some greater good. A great deal of good for which, following a feeling of political will, we have determined the predominantly part of our citizens, which is going out on this European road and joining European associations, finally in the EU, requires that we make eminent political decisions that cannot be enjoyed. So, therefore, by binding on this subjective expectation, changing these consciousness processes in these areas of ours, I want to make two notes without the intention of polluting, indeed. As perhaps small examples, examples of the need for us to take care of changing these ruling discourses, ruling speeches in our political and therefore media space. Opening this session in a nice one, I would say, indeed the gentleman's not only democratic manner of justifying the absence of a fellow speaker, Tihić, a colleague Ivanić has expressed his expectations, of course, that he will join us at the upcoming meetings of counterpart Tihić... and that today's debate on these laws,... which will be conducted without him, does not mean or should not mean... a great loss to him, because there will be more political battles. I know the tone, I know, I feel the connotation that my colleague Ivanić used that he didn't mean anything by it, that he didn't mean the political battles in which on the one hand the good, on the other hand the evil, thought of a political battle as a debate, as a conversation, as a debate. And that's what he witnessed in his discussion at the pay phone when he said this was, say, a problem where there shouldn't be a winner and defeated, or we shouldn't be having a war debate, the way of the battle. However, I must express my disagreement with the tone, with the contortion of my colleague Majkić's discussion, where I did not recognize the kind of connotation when she spoke about the opposite of the European and some Asian pathway or when she quoted Ivo Andrić, in my opinion, very inappropriately for this occasion, because we know Andric's letter of 20s, we know of course about the possibility of different political interpretations of Andrić as a great artist. And we also know the possibilities for Andrić's artist to be valued through Andrić's politicians, whose actions and attitudes we also know, among other things, and the one very embarrassing. So I think that in the circumstances in which we are discussing extremely important laws, whose importance, in my court, we retain this openness, this processivity that I expect, that they will start with a positive, European one. I think we should take care to help ourselves, but also to help the media free from these languages, battles, opponents, winners and defeated. On that side, I join all those who have expressed regret that our home, of course, will not unanimously adopt these laws. I personally have additional reasons to regret that among those who will vote are not my friends and colleagues from the Bosniak Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1916	Thank you very much. Mr. Vidović. We have after Mr. Vidović and two more reported. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1917	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow representatives, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I actually imagined at the beginning of the session, and so we in the club imagined that the clubs would present their views and that they would join the vote which is already in some way visible what they would look like, without, entering the debates, here they opened up, from, I would say, therefore, my colleague and fellow MPs and, in that sense, I would like to say that what I am personally, and our club as such, supported the speedy procedure, and of course I will support both the law and the other law, and under point 4. I will not report. However, when we entered into discussions on the content of the legal solutions and it was not bad to hear the Secretary-General, so who reminded us of the chronology that we all know, which has been happening in the last three or four years, from the work of the expert team, the expert team, so I don't know, later political agreements, at the end of the political compromise reached, which here we are 15 in this house at the moment led to the last act, when we don't have enough space or need to analyze here as a colleague Rančić does, thus respecting his expertise and the lack of these legal solutions that we cannot change at this moment. We have accepted the situation by hasty decision, so take it or leave it, and so I support... taking this law in the process, just for one reason. So, if by adopting these laws we jump into European rails, and this is clearly said, no matter what lack of legal solutions I have, here's what my colleague Rančić was saying and I agree, but these European rails are stronger than these shortcomings, and that's one of the reasons why I'm going to support it, believing that as we said in our club, and that there's a lot of things being said here that we won't stop at this because, political decisions of this type, we can't say that they're good now, but after some time distance. And I believe in the future proposal that we will say that this was a good time to support the European rails. In that sense, here I felt the need to explain my clear reasons for supporting both law and law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1918	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1919	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to say I won't support those laws for a number of reasons. Some of them I brought up during my steps and presentations of views and at the committee's session, some during opinions and in the media, and here I am taking this opportunity to present some of them and to give some more opinions. Namely, these legal regulations represent the transfer of competences from the entity, from RS to BiH level, contrary to Article III, point 5. The BiH constitution and are contrary to the RS Constitution. Also mentioned legal regulations are a harsh violation of the conclusions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia of 23. On 30 April 2007, it was clearly defined that a new organisation form of the RS Police in BiH would be declared a referendum. There are enough security agencies in BiH that, if they do their job seriously, can ensure the safety of BiH citizens without the need to form seven new agencies. And finally, I'll cut it short, I can certainly say, and time will show it, and that's set out in Article 21. Law on independent and supervisory bodies of police structure and in Article 34. The Law on the Police Body Coordination Directorate, that these legal regulations are the beginning of the end of the RS Police Department. And in the end, I won't agree with my distinguished friend Mr. Sadović, the Minister of Security, who, in my personal opinion, has performed quite a party here rather than professionally. It is true that someone should have given the chronology of the police-related events, but it should not have been done today by Mr Sadović. It was supposed to be someone from the College's leadership. And Mr. Sadović, if he did, should have performed far, far more professionally. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1920	Thank you very much. And last on the list reported: Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1921	: Thank you very much, esteemed President, as well as Vice President, Honored fellow MPs, and all of you who attend this session today. When I looked to the right, it was my custom to look to the right and then to the left, I saw that I was the only one that didn't say that I was going to make a statement today about such very important issues, regardless of what we're talking about here for two hours, and we're not talking about what the laws on the agenda are talking about today. I have a feeling they're four years old saying: that they're one for,...and one is against, and that the BiH population doesn't really know why they are, why they're for, and why they're against each other. Since we haven't used this offered time to talk about it, but we're mostly about some things that have very high value, but they're peripheral at this point, I'm going to find one environment between that. With these laws, I believe no one is too pleased. I'm not going to say happy on purpose, because there were happy words here today. But one fact is clear: that this is a small step towards a better future in BiH and we are all aware, hopefully, that we should support or at least we should act by supporting the arrival of this key step that can happen at the end of this April month, so that BiH can enter a new phase, when it comes to the European path. The laws are within the framework of BiH's constitutional solutions, and this is the framework we have. Unlike some times, I would remind myself, when we had on our benches laws that directly violated constitutional solutions in BiH and had a part of the international community that supported such 31 solutions, the truth did not offer the signing or ratification of the Agreement with the EU but offered some great money which, in the end, and when we passed the law, we did not see, and that's the reason why it tells me that I deeply understand for those people who today discussed and said that the solutions that bring these laws are not the best solutions for them, but I am glad that this time we also see that we have an expensive and unfair and unfair state and that, if we think about real BiH as a European country, it is necessary to realise what is in the final part of these laws, which is the adoption of a fair and more quality constitution, instead of a donated Constitution. A constitution that will enable, I said, a functional and cheap and just state. And by looking at it all together, I'll be on the side of those who will support these laws. For these two least reasons I would single out, that is, they are within the framework of the Constitution and allow for the signing, or ratification of the Sprazum with the EU.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1922	Thank you very much. If there's no more reports, and I see no more, I'll conclude the debate. And please prepare to vote on the law. Prepare to vote. You can vote. I'm shutting down the vote. With, if I count well, 10 votes "yes", four against", an adequate entity majority from both the RS and the Federation, the law was passed. Thank you very much. We're going to the fourth point, Ad. 4. A request from the House of Representatives to consider draft law on the Police Body Coordination Directorate and on agencies to support BiH's police structure by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples So first, we decide on a request to discuss it by emergency procedure. Home decides after discussing it. You know the consequence is that there are no amendments. I'm opening a debate. Are there any interested? Thank you very much for respecting the suggestion of the previous agenda. If there are no reports, and there are no, please prepare for the vote. You can vote. It's about procedure now. I find that the House with four votes is "against", 10 "for" – accepted that this law is declared in accordance with Rule 122(3) of the Rules of Procedure, meaning that no amendments are made. I'm opening a debate about the law. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Rančić. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1924	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm not going to, I'm going to respect my colleagues, I've talked a little bit more about the previous agenda, and I've mentioned, so I've touched both laws, and in most of my discussion, I've talked about both laws and independent supervisory bodies, as well as the Police Coordination Directorate. So what I would like to do on this occasion is – if you allow me to ask the legislators of this law, or those who are on behalf of the promoter, therefore, who have drawn up this law, both of these laws – one question is that my question applies to Article 34. The Law on the Directorate for the Coordination of Police Authorities and Police Support agencies in BiH, as if the same, essence of the issue could be applied, seems to me, and to Article 21. The law on independent supervisory authorities. So my question to the promoters, or to those who are in the name of the promoter here today, is: Does BiH have a Law on Police Officers? Well, if there is, why do they predict that we'll just pass those laws? And if BiH does not have this law, how does the SIPA and the Border Police do, as police bodies in BiH? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1925	I'm asking the press upstairs to settle down a little bit because it really can't work here already. So when you talk, you can't even hear it right! Keep it down, it'll be fine. First, I think it's a little unusual to ask a question, but here's Mr. Belkić wants to give an answer, which is not a question and answers, but a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1926	So, as the person who's been asked, let me answer the person who asks. We know everything this country has. But that's not enough. This will be about comprehensive laws covering both the service and police officers according to the newly established principles. You know that well, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1927	Thank you very much. But we're not on that agenda! No questions and no answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1928	To comment. Can I? Here's my second call.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1929	A comment? You got it. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1930	Thank you very much. So I'm not happy with the answer because I didn't even get the answer. The question was precise and my colleague couldn't answer whether or not he had it. Because if we have the Law on Police Officers, how come in two laws we predict that we're about to pass it? And I say we have the law, and I said in my discussion, "The Official Messenger" 27/04.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1931	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for discussion. Please prepare to plead. You can vote. Final vote. One "abstained", three "against"... We'll do it again so there's no problem. Please just get... When I say get ready and you can vote, then you can vote. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Voting closed. With 10 votes "yes", four votes "against", with a sufficient entity majority from the Federation and RS, the bill passed. So, I suggest we take a break before we do this one point that's proposed by emergency procedure, so let's take a little break. That we don't take a break at all, because of those who have to or need a break? I still think it takes five minutes at least. I'm thanking you. I'm the only one who thinks we need you for election, but he's gone, but good. All right, let's move on. We're going to point 5, and then after point 5, we're going to take a break. Ad. 5. A request from the House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. So, first we vote on procedure and we plead. Are there any interested in discussing the Electoral Law? If not, I ask you to prepare for the vote. You can vote. I'm closing the vote. With one vote "against", one is not actually present, which means 12 votes "for" have adopted the procedure. 34 We have also received the chairman of the House of Representatives, Mr. Živković, as a representative of the Proposer. Now let's discuss the law itself. Do you have an immediate need or perhaps later? If not, come on, Mr. Živković, the chairman. Oh, yeah, all right. I'm just asking if they have. I don't see a particular reason either, but here. I'm opening a debate. Are there any interested in the debate? There isn't. Well, if there isn't, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1933	I would ask the chairman of the House of Representatives to say a few words about this law. We can't be so insecure that we're not interested in anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1934	Is there a need for the chairman to say something? Well, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1935	Thank you. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow delegates, for formal reasons alone, I am as the legislator of this law, you know the situation itself, in the House of Representatives. After we brought this law down in the second reading at the regular session, there was no other option but to bring the text of the Interresor Working Group in line with most of the amendments adopted by the Constitutional Commission, which became an integral part of the text, together with another amendment in terms of the regulation of the completion of the place, specifically in the National Assembly, I proposed this part of the law in the procedure. It's all practically more or less clear. Two amendments from the Constitutional Commission have only been expelled and one amendment which was of a technical nature and another amendment that you certainly know, what it is. At the same time, we received 10 from the Central Election Commission, as they state, technical changes and additions to the law, i.e. their proposals for amending and supplementing the law. With our legal service, we found, firstly, that it was not about technical changes, and secondly, that it was not about the text that I submitted to the House of Representatives, but about practically, and it was actually a late reaction from the Central Election Commission, to the text that was agreed in the Interresor Working Group and the text that came out of the Constitutional Commission. In practice, it is a late reaction which is now legal and procedurally impossible to resolve but does not solve any fundamental change in the law itself, and it is not about these municipal elections but about most of the general elections, so that we can resolve this after the municipal elections are over, that this means that we adopt their respective remarks in the same way as the 127th member of the Rules of Procedure, after the municipal elections have been made. That's how this situation is solved. I would also ask the House of Nations to declare the start of elections in this same text, because otherwise, it cannot be supported by this law, after which the Election Commission could, under this law, declare the beginning of the election. I think this, in the most part, explained 35 reasons for emergency procedure, the essence of the changes and the way we can overcome, if there were any doubt, and the Central Election Commission itself gave up these demands to be resolved now. I thank all those who participated in the Interresor Working Group of this Law, especially the Central Election Commission. I think we should continue this good cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1936	Thank you very much. Mr Filipović answered the question. Are there any more interested after? There isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1937	Very short. Before joining the decision on amendments and amendments to the Election Law, I would not repeat a single word that Mr. Živković said, but I would suggest that once we have made a statement on the amendment and addition of the Election Law to make one conclusion that we will commit the Central Election Commission, they know what I am going to talk about, because on this topic we also spoke on the Interresor Group. I think the House of Representatives has also reached an identical conclusion: that the Central Election Commission is organising a consolidated text of the BiH Election Law and delivering it to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for consideration and adoption. (Clears the text of the Electoral Law) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1938	Thank you very much. A similar proposal has already been adopted by the House of Representatives. So I'm going to suggest that we take this conclusion and adopt it, but let's get to the point of the law first. So now we're going to make a statement about the law. Please prepare for a plea. You can vote. Thank you very much. With one vote "against", 12 "for", the law was passed. I now propose that we make a statement on the conclusion, which is that the Central Election Commission prepares the consolidated text of the BiH Election Law with what I understand is that it is also a reason to correct those mistakes and then refer them to the adoption procedure afterwards. Please prepare for a plea. You can vote. Thank you. The conclusion was unanimously adopted, with 13 votes "yes". Ten minutes is enough break, so we're not too late. 36 [[PAUZA]] I suggest we get started. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Proposal for a law on the movement and stay of foreigners and asylum (this is a second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1943	So, I would firstly suggest that, on the principles of this law, the Interresor Working Group's initiative to draft amendments and amendments to the Electoral Law, hence the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions and the Law on the financing of political parties, in which the Interresor Working Group proposed three initiatives. Not to read three initiatives, because I think we all got those three initiatives, which are tied up... Is there any need for me to read these initiatives that are already in the text? There's no need. Eh, okay. Accordingly, I propose: To accept the proposed conclusion on the initiative to create a completely new law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions, which adequately addresses the issue of incompatibility of conflicts of interest in the institutions of government. It's like a new conclusion. 38 The following conclusion is: The House of People asks the Council of Ministers to form within the shortest time a new interresor working group for the creation of a new law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions, which will be made by representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Central Election Commission and the Parliamentary Assembly, and to appoint members of the Interresor Group who have already worked on this, so Mr Mladen Ivanić, Mrs Alma Čolo and Mr Ilija Filipović, in front of our home. These would be some complete conclusions that would come with a proposal to adopt this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1944	Thank you very much. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1945	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll do it very briefly. First of all, I would like to thank and support the work that you have done both Mr Filipović and Mrs. Čolo, because it is very good that every law that comes from our benches to care for those and that we too give and create. Here is a fine example of how we should continue to work on other laws. However, what I would like to say, because I was in the task force when the first law that we had came out, then I insisted, and I would now give that initiative that we are renaming the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, because we are talking about principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1946	Thank you very much. Mr. Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1947	Here's a few words I'll say. Not long and not very affirmative, but I'm obliged to say that someone else worked in this Interresor group, not just the three of us from the House of Peoples. We also had three MPs from the House of Representatives: Mr. Živković, Lozančić and Džaferović. So there were ministers from the Council of Ministers: Mr Nović, Čolak and Minister Halilović. And of course, that's where they helped us with all that, and they did it very well and very well, the people of the Central Election Commission. But I just wanted to say, here's the precision here, how serious it is and how long the Interresor Working Group has been discussing three laws in the Election Law, the Law on conflict of interest and the Law on the financing of political parties, which still runs as unfinished work. I also heard this proposal from MP Majkić, and we won't take away, I wouldn't take up time on these Interresor Group proposals, you could all read it, but I would say something that I said on the Interresor Group. I am very dissatisfied and unhappy, this word has been used many times today, with a general approach to making, and also making changes and additions, 39 approaches to this law, when it comes to the law on preventing conflicts of interest in BiH. Short. I'm very unhappy because I know of some other less rigid solutions dealing with the prevention of conflicts of interest, e.g. The direct elections we saw two or three days ago in Italy, when the media mag, therefore for the third time, was given the right to form a government, and that is not in conflict of interest, which is also the government and certain bodies in that government of a strong, numerous, large neighbouring Italy... will make people from precisely these media, this Maga Berluskoni. I would also like to tell you examples from neighbouring Croatia, so you have such examples in the neighbouring Republic of Serbia. It is no problem to be a representative in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, at the same time to be mayor of a city, whether it is Bjelovar, whether it is Varazdin, whether it is Osijek, to sit in the administrative bodies of public companies that he founded himself, but it is a problem when proposed and requested in our country that those who set up public companies be members of the supervisory bodies of these public companies and defend the interests of these companies. So we have the capacity to sit in Parliament as the largest legislative body in the country, form a particular company, establish it, but at the same time raises hands from that company, and it is left to some of the other good guys who will... in the public tender come, control the work, the legality of these companies. It did not even pass the proposal to allow the members of Parliament, the Council of Ministers, so executive and legislative, so, if you will, and the judicial authorities, I will tell you why, to enter some kind of supervisory body. They don't have to receive any compensation, no, it's not allowed, and even if 25% of the state owns, so some basic capital in some company, that's what our law forbids us. We have the Law of Conflict of Interest, I pray nicely, which forbids praying to Bog, and not to do anything...in some bodies, to still be valuable, and also to charge for this work. Because it's... demeaning the nice behavior of the elected official if he's gone somewhere else to do something besides that, and he's pointing his finger at all these bans that can't do anything already, that... why he's getting so much compensation or getting that kind of pay, and... it's about the highest legislative body in this country. I'll mention one example. A few days ago we had here on a friendly visit to a very strong, economically developed province from Germany. This is Parliament Speaker Baden Vitenberga who was here as guest of our parliament and I had the honour of spending a little more time with this delegation and with the head of Parliament who is also a lawyer. Please, a lawyer who is President of Parliament – Mr Nović laughs, knows exactly what I will say – is not a conflict of interest in a Federal Republic of Germany and in a province that has 11 million inhabitants, the same lawyer, did not have to close his office. It's working neatly. And I asked, so I apologized why I asked, but then I explained it, it's no problem either to represent the same province or any public company in the Federal Republic of Germany. With us, you know what it is, you'd be hanging like Pedro if something like that happened. So, I mean, we have too rigid a law, we have too strict a law. I am happy for the initiatives that we will have a new law on the prevention of conflicts of interest here...... is the suggestion that it does, therefore, the Central Election Commission, that it makes it a resolute ministry, the Ministry of Justice, although some people, experts on these things, will not let this Parliament pass a law that will be rigid like this, which will be the law of the past, such as this, because at the moment it perceives us all in BiH when we are elected officials, regardless of what level of body, whether it is legislative, whether it is enforceable, whether it is judicial. So, it comes from the assumption that, yes, that 40 could be criminals, and if I were to ask you nicely, not to talk about how wide it is, how much in the current law, and even in these changes... that circle of relatives. Please, a straight line, a lateral line, and then by the armpit there more, well, please nice. So, strictly I've advocated, I've been very persistent, very convincing in that, please, let's not spread that circle above and outside the family of the elected official. Let's not defend by choosing out there for the minister in the parliamentary benches, no matter what level, or any court, to anyone in the extended family to do business and to deal with state-owned enterprises. However, we have remained on that line of infidelity toward humans. So we're starting to assume that everyone is unfair who is, therefore, or will be unfair, if they're allowed to act the way I said Parliament's president from Baden Vinterberg behaves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1948	Thank you very much. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1949	Your Honor, I've been in this task force the same way, and I can't help but say here in front of all of you some of the dilemmas we've had, and it's about the adoption of entity laws. The Law on Conflict of Interest...in BiH institutions was passed in 2002, so six years ago and in this law in transitional and final provisions it was said that entities both Brcko and the District were obliged to pass their laws within 60 days, and that, until they passed their laws, they would apply the provisions of this law. Neither the Federation nor the RS have passed their laws on preventing conflicts of interest so far. He only brought the Brcko District. And what happened was that the Electoral Commission, which was obliged to implement this law, had adopted one instruction, which actually extended the application of this law to all elected officials, to the local level. And in this manual she specified which officials were elected at the Federation level, which at the level of RS, which at the level of municipalities, cities etc. And it was estimated that this manual was contrary to the law and they put it out of force. We now have the situation that the Law on Conflict of Interest – or as Mr Ivo Miro Jović proposes to be called on to prevent conflicts of interest, which I think is right, and it should be amended – that this law applies only to elected officials at the state level, and that it refers only to us, and the sanctions that the Election Commission imposes on persons elected by officials, and possibly to conflict of interest, are sanctions that can only be imposed on people in this House. The sanctions cannot be imposed either by the Minister at the Council of Ministers or by any director of the State Directorate or by the Agency, which I think is unfair and that one is a certain discriminatory treatment of this law. So we have to work on this law to apply to all those to whom it applies. I got the law today: draft law on preventing conflicts of interest in RS. I am very glad that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will, I believe, pass the law very quickly. The Federation should do the same. But I think it's necessary that we all be in the same treatment when it comes to the application of this law, and when it comes to sanctions, because sanctions are very 41 sharp. I objected to such sanctions. They exist even now in the law. I don't think they are in line with the European Convention, which is a ban on running for elections. I don't mind if one of us finds himself in a conflict of interest, knowingly breaking the law, stopping his mandate. The electoral commission can interrupt each and every one of us, in accordance with the Electoral Law, but it can't be a minister, it can't be a director of some directorship, and there's a very questionable solution for me that I can't – here I am, if it were to determine a conflict of interest – I can't run for the next four years. What I think is: it's not in accordance with Protocol 3. The European Convention, which guarantees the right to...right to fair elections, that everyone has the right... to be chosen and to participate in the elections, means to vote for their candidates. This violates the passive voting right so that no one can run in the election. It is not disputed that you... forbid him to act in that term, because he has sinned on the law and cannot be in that mandate, but to prohibit someone from running in the elections, I think it is very questionable and that it is not in line with European standards and that we should consider in the amendment procedure the competent commissions, in particular the Constitutional Commission, which is competent to consider all aspects of constitutionality, and the European Convention is an integral part of our Constitution... of the proposed legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1950	Thank you very much. Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1951	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman, so I'd like to ask all of us here a special question to think about. In fact, it is directly related to the adoption of the Law of Conflict of Interests, the question of the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates. And, as you know, the Commission for Human Rights has reached a conclusion at the last session to postpone this issue until this law, which in the good part, concerns the conflict of interest, is postponed until the law is passed. I suggest that this home and on this subject be made known simply to conclude that we accept this view and the Commission's position to wait with the Code until the Law of Conflict of Interest, on the prevention of conflicts of interest, is reached, because we can come to the position that certain provisions of the Code be potentially contrary to the law, which we all normally know would create a problem in practice that we should immediately approach the amendment of the Code. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1952	Thank you very much. If there isn't, I'd suggest the following. First, we have these three initiatives that we need to support so that, eventually, we just don't know if it's today or when we pass the law, then we can figure out a group. Maybe it's better to keep that in mind, so when, after the second reading right now, we can still do it today, but it'll turn out to be a guess in... yes. 42 And we have another suggestion. Although, I'd like to instruct an esteemed delegate to give the amendment and to instruct her a few people from the House of Representatives to make a similar amendment, so that we don't be in a different version, that we don't make a special conclusion about it. So, if you agree, first we vote on the bill in the first reading. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Thank you very much. I find the law has received 13 votes, that we unanimously adopted in our first reading. We are now moving to a statement on the initiatives that the Interresor Working Group has sent. Prepare to vote. You can vote. 13 votes "yes". Unanimity. Since we have adopted an initiative to write a new text of this law, I suggest we also make a statement about the proposal that Mrs. Majkić made, which is that in front of the House of Peoples on this commission there are the same group... three people: Mrs. Čolo, Filipović and Ivanić who have worked on this too. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Thank you very much. Unanimity: 13 votes "yes". And a suggestion, there's no need to plead, Mr. Jović, to go by...amendmental action. Well, I think the report on the work of the Interresor Working Group, accepting this bill and accepting, but well, here we go, because they asked. Prepare to vote and report on the work of the Interresor Working Group. You can vote. Thank you very much. Okay, that's 12 votes "yes" now. Someone's a little late, but it doesn't matter. Adopted, adopted report on work. Moving to the ninth item of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Proposal for a drug and medical law (first reading) You've reached the bill. He's the Proposer of the Council of Ministers. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. The House of Representatives passed the bill in the first reading. This is the first reading of the law, only a debate on necessity and the principles on which the law is based. 43 I'm opening a debate. Are there any interested? Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1954	Yes, I need to say a few words, a team before I witnessed the events in the last term that followed the original drafting of this law. So in early 2006, the parliamentary procedure proposed a drug law and medical means by emergency procedure. Unfortunately, at the time, we could not get the necessary majority in the House of Representatives because the adoption of this law was not supported by BiH Federation MPs and the law fell. So, after two years, here's the proposal for a drug law and medical encounter is back in procedure. This time it's really been significantly changed and repaired. As we can see, this law regulates production, traffic on large, or imports-exports of medicines, medical means, as well as conditions and measures to ensure the quality of safety and efficacy of medicines and medical means for use in humanitarian medicine. In addition, this bill regulates the supervision of medicines and medical resources on the BiH market, as well as the supervision of legal persons who produce, investigate, or traffic on many medicines and medical products. Also, the law regulates the establishment of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices as an independent administrative organisation with legal personality status, which has the task, is established as a single body of the medical and medical authority, and its establishment enables the unification of the drug and medical resources market by making it the only competent body for the registration and control of medicinal products and medical resources in BiH. I mean.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1955	My colleague answered her word and she's got ten minutes, but please don't. She's a kolegica of Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1956	Therefore, given that the law in question does not contain part of the substance relating to the retail trade and that it is the original jurisdiction of the entity, it has significantly improved this version of the law, i.e. the past. Secondly, in the proposal for this law, we can also say... that the big campaign is a media that was led during the adoption of this law, and this is the first time that one law has such a media monitoring in terms of the possibility that many institutions make their observations and proposals to the law itself, and that it has come out to meet the largest number of promoters in terms of accepting their demands, so this time the Civil Service has shown a reference point in which they should follow the adoption of other laws in the future. I think this way to the public, in which one law was involved, would be good to follow other laws and I don't think there's any reason not to support such a bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1957	Thank you very much. Are there any more interested? There isn't. That means we can access the bill's statement. Prepare to vote. 44 You can vote. Thank you. I find that this law was unanimously adopted with 13 votes "yes", in the first reading. We're going to point 10. Ad. Ten. Proposal for a bill on salaries and fees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) We're just talking about principles again. The Commission accepted the principles, the House of Representatives adopted the bill in the first reading. Minister Vrankić and the College agreed to give the minister space to give, due to the importance of this law, a few preliminary remarks. And Mr. Vrankić will do it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1959	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear MPs, colleagues, Council of Ministers, guests, since this law has been talked about a lot, a lot of, you know, allow just a few basic notes. The adoption of wage laws in BiH institutions is one of the key activities involved in implementing public administration reform and creating conditions for establishing and improving a system of leadership and enforcement responsibilities for entrusted public administration jobs in BiH institutions. A significant document drawing up guidelines for appropriate legal solutions and policies in institutions for the period 2007 – 2010 because this document sublimes the recommendations of international financial institutions, independent international consulting houses that have been doing research on wage problems in BiH, especially in BiH institutions. The introduction of the principle of transparency, rewarding according to the results of work, establishing balanced salaries for the same and similar jobs, flexibility and fiscal responsibility in the Law on Salaries, is a newspaper in accessing the problem of regulating expenditure on the basis of salaries and fees in BiH institutions. We have opted for the adoption of a single wage law in order to address the overall problem of wages and fees in the BiH institutions and to ensure full transparency and comparative transparency of wage levels in all BiH institutions. The law is divided into chapters in order to install specialities related to certain institutions of legislative, judicial, executive authorities in the text of the law, but with respect to adopted principles. In addition, it is important to note that the overall problem of compensation is uniformly regulated in a special part of the law and that it applies to all employees in BiH institutions. I especially stress this because there is little attention to this part of the experience so far. The specific chapters of the law include regulations relating to the Constitutional Court and the judiciary, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, professional military personnel, police officers, independent regulators and other institutions, the system of establishing basic heat, 45 based on legally defined payment classes and coefficients and the basis for calculating the wages to be determined for each fiscal year. In this connection, Article 7 is one of the key elements of future wage reform, as defining the criteria for establishing the basis for the calculation of salaries and the way in which the funds are planned for salaries and fees in the budgets of the institutions is essential for the functioning of the entire public administration system, within the framework of BiH institutions. Based on the principle of full transparency, while respecting the need for the institution's budgeting process to be based on pre-defined criteria, and in particular taking into account that over 70% of the BiH institutions' budget is related to salaries and benefits employed, it is proposed to establish a basis based on public statistical data. Also, while respecting the need to establish criteria that could contribute to BiH's overall development institutions, it is proposed that the base for the calculation of salaries is determined on the basis of the average monthly warming achieved in BiH as a statistical data published by the BiH Statistics Agency. And esteeming other factors essential for establishing the basis, it is suggested that the base for the calculation of salaries is determined at 85% of the average monthly heat in BiH, in the year preceding the year in which the budget is being prepared for the next fiscal year, i.e. for the year in which minus two years is brought. In this way, the requirements for the preparation of the budget are fully met on pre-defined criteria, and the principle of full transparency is met. It is our commitment that the application of the new wage system does not result in wage reductions in the first year of application of the law for certain categories of employees, and that in the transitional period by 2010, wages are gradually balanced in institutions that have had significant deviations under current regulation and pay accounting practices. When considering this issue, it must be borne in mind that salaries for civil servants, employees in BiH institutions have not been increased since '99. In the last two years, salaries at lower levels of government have had a high growth, so that the current level of salaries to employees in institutions is significantly lower than the salaries at the entity level, and lower than the salaries employed by local institutions. The proposed solutions ensure a balance between salaries for key positions of legislative, judicial and executive authorities in institutions. The proposed solutions also provide a balance in relation to legislation and pay-related practice at other levels of government in BiH. In the end, I believe that the proposed relative relations through the coefficients for police officers, the military, civil servants, employees, holders of functions and all others are a good starting point for resolving wage issues, and that the law itself can serve as a model for lower levels of government. In the end, allow only two more sentences. This law, the unique Law of Salaries, we have done at your request, the request of Parliament, and it is exactly how it is covered. These days, we have been rested and we hear a lot of criticism that certain institutions are wanted for independence. There is nothing in this law that will later depend on the executive authority, neither the Council of Ministers nor individual ministries. On the contrary, every provision is given in the law. I consider when something is defined by the law that it is the highest degree of independence that can be. This law weighs an additional 55 million marks. At the House of Representatives, if I have the right to say so, there has been a debate all day, and only 1% of these 55 million marks. They discussed themselves, and they didn't discuss more than 70% of these additional pairs, which are soldiers, cops and our officers, or primary and secondary school officials, 46, and I would therefore ask that in this spirit and debate, we get to quality, and that in one such way we accept what is to be accepted. What we were trying to do, too, to work through this law in one way is that when it comes to other institutions where it was required – and there is a letter that came from international institutions, I believe that you all got it on benches, it didn't come to us, I didn't look back at it – but I think, what I said before, we did according to your law, and I think this is the first time that all BiH institutions are being dealt with in one unique way. And if someone is against this law, then I think it's against BiH. If we don't want to build institutions, then let's not support this law. If we want to have quality law, then we have to have quality people in executive power, and if they're twice as paid as helpers in entities, we can't expect to get the quality structure that's contained through the parameters, or through what we're proposing. I'm standing at a disposition for the other arguments that need to be made.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1960	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest, except there's a gentleman. I only wanted to go before you, if I could just say for a second, that I think this is a very important venture. Of course, about the content, about concrete solutions will be spoken of in the amendment phase, and there may be all these remarks to be made. Perhaps this amendment phase should take long enough for it to be fully present, but I think a conceptary justification is the existence of one of these laws. It solves internal relations. Now, about every concrete solution, about that after. I apologize to Mr. Rajić, but I had no intention of just saying one sentence.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1961	Well, even if it was, I didn't mind. Thank you very much. Well, even though the principles of this law are being discussed today, I feel the need to talk about a number of principled reasons for adopting, or supporting such a law. First of all, it seems to me that it would be our duty for our representatives to show themselves to something called the climate in the public, the media exploitation of this law, before it appeared in the official procedure, and even some not-so-selected terms in the communication of some officials to the public. So it's clear to me and I think it's clear to all of us that... our mission in this country and in all the countries of the world is focused and that focus is objectively set on us for a reason. Perhaps in BiH, the focus is too prominent in every situation, in every detail, which can again be understood by the reasons that are related to our recent past and the great presence of different institutions that in a consistent way encourage this focus and dissection of our work. So, I don't mind if we are in focus, but I would be happy if that focus had two sides of the medal, if, on the one hand, I would look critically at us and our behavior and, on the other hand, if I were to respect the fact and show that it respects that fact that being a representative, senator, congressman, Parliamentarian everywhere on the globe of the democratic world means extremely high rank and high honor. So, I'm not sick of these categories, but, when it comes to speaking critically about parliament, about ministers in the government of a country, then we should keep in mind that it's not about ordinary duties, and at least, when it comes to parliamentarians, we want some in 47 public accept it or not accept it, the only directly elected representatives and expression of the political will of all citizens and peoples in BiH. So, I support the public's right to know, to follow everything that's going on, including the solutions that pass this law. I support the public's right to be critical of this, although some statements, some statements, in my opinion, have exceeded the limits of tolerance, tolerance. Although on the other hand, there were some excuses from these benches that I wouldn't make up with, and I don't think they were well-delivered, despite all that, I'm pushing for the public to know, to follow, to be informed about what we're doing, to take a critical look back, but to keep doing our job according to our own beliefs and in accordance with some of the principles that I was about to say now. So, the first principle, which I support in this law, the principle of the public and the critical reference to everything that's going on. The second principle is the principle of legal regulation of all areas of life, because it is the only guarantee that we will have both legislative and moral order in society. And, if we want to be part of Europe, and I don't doubt that we all want to be together and all of our citizens of this country want to be part of Europe, we must advocate a legal arrangement on the principles discussed by Minister Vrankić, among other things. To know that at least in this category of beneficiaries of BiH's budget money, we are all within the same legal framework and that we have standardised relations to deal with. The third principle, which I advocate, is the principle of following economic trends, economic practices. That is, not only economic but European practices as a whole. It is not known to me that there is an orderly democratic country in Europe, which has not been regulated legally by these issues and others that are not on the agenda today. Therefore, I advocate that as an integral part of Europe, because we are an organic, historical, geographical and mental part of Europe, and I want us to remain part of Europe, and one of the elements that we show that we are part of Europe is the adoption of such laws. The fourth criterion, that is, the principle or principle that I stand for in the adoption of these laws and others, is that we draw the elements for the structure of the law from something comparable to us. So, we can't, for God's sake, compare to Great Britain, France, Sweden or Germany, we can compare ourselves to something that looks like us, which has similar experiences and economic levels of development, these are the countries of the former Yugoslavia. And as far as I know, those who created this law used these experiences to the maximum. So, I'm staying here to settle the law. And we come to the last, fifth principle, which means that we need to take a responsible look at all the parameters, so all the elements that edit this law, starting with the constituent elements, from the coefficients, relative relationships, absolute values, and that we need to look at it in a very responsible way and nowhere is it said that the solutions that are offered are both final and best. I believe that we are obliged and that in the second phase of the debate on this law, the amendment phase, we can focus our attention on what is the essence, which is the content of the law, and perhaps in this way lead to a more durable, more peaceful relationship between us and the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1962	Thank you very much. There's no more interest in the debate. I'm closing the debate. And we move on to a statement about this law in the first reading. Prepare to vote. You can vote. I'm sorry, Alma, I didn't see, I asked. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1963	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1964	You've given up the debate? You've given up the debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1965	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1966	Okay, here's what I can say. I realize we passed this law, but here, because I don't believe that, that you're... against the law? Here's to giving a word after the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1967	I haven't seen my application before the vote. That's why I didn't vote, but here I guess I'm always... late to vote, so I apologize to Dom for that. I'd just like to state my party's position. So we have the position of the Party of Democratic Action's main committee to support, in any case, the adoption of such a law, which is a system law and which should be regulated on the same basis by financing all budget beneficiaries. We know that now we have a situation for some regulatory agencies, some state agencies, which are all funded by the Budget of BiH, to define the level of their salaries by their decisions. While... other members of bodies such as the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the BiH Presidency also set their decisions the levels of these salaries, which are significantly lower than in those agencies and, of course, that here is the ministry proposed these transitional solutions so that these people would not go to drastic wage cuts, which I do not agree with, believe me, because for years someone had significantly higher salaries than they had members of the Presidency, but had members of this Parliamentary Assembly, and now, because they had their own high wages for years, you should allow some transitional solutions so that they would not feel this drastic wage reduction. I don't think that's right. Generally, I think that the coefficients should be slightly leveled, slightly reduced, but I ask all those who are going to change this law so that these amendments don't violate the system hierarchy of the law. Because the government in BiH is, as in all democratic states, divided into legislative, executive and judicial. And everywhere certain levels of government have been paid about the same, none of us have ever talked about salaries paid by judicial officials since 2003. These people have significantly more salaries than members of the Presidency, meaning than the head of our state, a significantly higher salary than the chairman of the BiH Parliament, and we have not objected much, because the High Representative has decided so and in order to create an independent and impartial judiciary. But we also have the situation that the latest Monitoring Committee of the Council of Europe report, the preliminary report made up of BiH -- I was as a rapporteur in front of BiH recently in Paris on the Monitoring Committee -- where over 2.5 million pending court cases are said in BiH. So, the judiciary! Niko one says that our judiciary is inefficient, but’, should have high wages and the president of the BiH Court should have a 9.5 coefficient, and Parliament's president should not have a 9th coefficient. I believe I'm not a professional in this House and I don't have this salary that you have, nor will I have it, but I really can't reconcile with the fact that the media has created such a state in which only the people who are in this Parliament are concerned. So the salaries of parliamentarians are very high, and they're not high wages in the judiciary of 49 where the coefficient is 10. The President of the Constitutional Court of BiH has 10 and may have but, believe me, in all countries of the region, the legislative, executive and judicial authorities are treated equally. The highest functions in one, the second and the third authorities were treated at the same level of pay. The attitude, so my party is that it's too high, I'll respect that attitude... but, please, if it's an amendment, I don't think the amendments should go in the direction of breaking the system hierarchy of this law, that it means that by increasing someone's salary, it's going to come into a situation where the levels of government in this way... come down and conflict with each other, which I don't think is right, because the principles of the law itself will be questioned.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-16-0.u1968	Thank you very much. We made a statement about the law. I think it was useful to hear and I beg you all, I'm trying to use the application mechanism that exists, then it shows up here as chairman and then it can't make a mistake, and with a hand it can happen. Moving to the next point. That, if I'm not mistaken, is point 11. Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Code You've received the bill, the Commission's opinion. The Commission has accepted the principles. The House of Representatives adopted this bill in the first reading. I'm opening a debate. Are there any interested? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We're approaching the vote. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Thank you. I find this law received 13 votes in the first reading and was unanimously adopted. Moving to point 12. ... Ad. 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of Bosnia and Herzegovina Citizens (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 50
