ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21315	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I know you've been tired since today's session, but I hope that will be a reason for us to continue this 38th session more effectively. I want to welcome you all once again and continue the 38th session of the House of Representatives. The absences from the session were justified by representatives: Jovan Todorović, Milica Marković, Momčilo Novaković, Hadzhi Jovan Mitrović, Adem Huskić, Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić. I just want to inform you now as colleagues that the respected representative Momčilo Novaković's father died and I, in my name and in your name, sent a quick announcement to feel sorry for the Novaković family. We have a quorum for work and decision-making. I remind you that the session's interruption was made at the 6th point of the agenda and according to what I have here for discussion were still reported, still, in this order, the distinguished representative Martin Raguž, Denis Bećirović, Jozo Križanović and Velimir Jukić. Do the representatives who applied for the debate want to continue the debate on item 6? I call, I think this proposal is politely discussed, but here, if anyone wants, I call for you to give up the debates that have been called, so that we can move to point 7. If not, go ahead. No, I don't. So, the ones that were reported. If one of the applicants wants to know, can he say it? There isn't. I thank you all. Lawmaker respected second vice-president Milorad Živković wishes to speak briefly.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21316	Thank you, Chairman. I mean, I think it would be unscheduled not to say the last sentence of this, and since we've discussed this a lot. However, I failed to give, I did not have time to answer questions concerning the constitutionality of this law or any other questions. Obviously, we would waste only time and add to today's agenda if I could explain it. I have quite good arguments for all of this, however, it seems to me that this legislative project could come back here on the agenda, so I suggest to Parliament that we reject the proposal of our Constitutional Legal Commission and that it is tasked to create a uniform model, as up to 2 is now making reports on the proposals of the law and that these additional factors or additional arguments brought here for discussion, in the last session, be respected for the making of its new report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21317	I thank the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković. Since I'm no longer registered, I'm the one who concludes. A respected representative, Denis Bećirović, reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21318	Thank you. As far as this bill is concerned, I'd like to say a few sentences. Namely, by following the debate that was in the previous session, when we talked about this subject, unlike many who spoke in a different way, I must say that the motioner of this law, Mr. Živković, probably achieved a full effect regardless of the outcome of the vote with this point. Since the proponent already knew in advance what the outcome of the vote would be when it came, whether this vote point, however, was probably important for the proponent to find the ball again, so to speak, in the 16th century, now the original powers of the BiH state. When I say so, here you were also witnesses at the previous session, here in Parliament there are lessons about what a difficult right-handed man in the European Parliament said, and there is no talking about what the official views of the EU are, but all this is going on here in Parliament without any problems. I must say that when it comes to the Central Bank of BiH, Article VII of the BiH Constitution has made it very clear that the BiH Central Bank is the only authorised monetary policy institution in the entire area of BiH and that the central bank's competence is determined by the Parliamentary Assembly. However, instead of training the state, we are building the institutions needed for the BiH state in accordance with Article III point 5. The BiH Constitution, here is the practice of looking to destroy those original powers of the BiH state as well. I must say that this law, so we all know what the outcome will be when we vote on it, but the message and this law is when BiH's original competences are brought in, then they just don't have any chance of initiatives and proposals to build additional capacity for institutions that would create a functioning BiH state, which is being warned by a number of EU, US officials, etc. Instead of training the state that we have laws here that say how to implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, how to seriously negotiate with the EU, we have signed here and ratified the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, here we are coming back, I think, backwards, not moving forward. So, in the end, I want to say once again that the result of the vote on this law is known in advance, we'll see when we vote, but the essence of this story and this law is, in my opinion, that the powers of the state are passed on to entities, so this story about the Central Bank is just one part of the total mosaic that we've been looking at here lately. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21319	I thank the esteemed representative Bećirović. I really don't have any more reports and I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 7th item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21320	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21321	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21322	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21323	There are no applications or electronics... you're not, there's no electronics or in any other way. If you insist, if you've answered, and I haven't registered, there's no problem, but. Dear Representative Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21324	Well, here I am, just getting a heads-up from my esteemed colleague Bećirović. He kept good records around the replicas. It's true that last time I cracked the replicas, but there was a discussion left and, just now, you've invited me to your discussion, even though I thought I'd give up using it, but I'll try to be brief, and if it's possible not to use it, not to contribute to new replicas, since last time we had a difficult discussion, even a series of illogicalities, inaccuracy. We tried last time to quote Article 27 d) which speaks of the powers of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in this area what the Parliamentary Assembly can do, it clearly writes here. Although the thesis that the Central Bank is state-owned and that no one has any jurisdiction over it has any legitimate decision to make is the one this paragraph makes. Each decision is legitimate and it is clearly stated here in point d) that the Parliamentary Assembly decides, not the Central Bank. Someone has spread out some theories of the world that are on a completely different model of organization of the state and the arrangements of society and that are inappropriate here to apply. Because if they were possible, then the creators of this system would apply it immediately, they wouldn't be waiting for an ex-post mind to remind them of that. But what bothers me every time is that when you talk here about some proposals such as this and the one from which some MPs feel that adopting certain legal projects will make it better for the citizens of BiH, and that is their right to claim it, that it is welcomed in the way it is welcomed. If we were to listen to the discussion last time and what counterpart Bećirević was talking about, I think someone who did not read Mr. Živković's proposal would understand that we are asking to transfer competences from the Central Bank of BiH to neighbouring countries. And then it would make sense for someone to defend the state, so something doesn't go to neighbouring countries. That's what I understood. Because if someone 4 thinks the country's decentralised model is hostile to the state, then they're wrong. Then she can see around the world examples when people thought by decentralisation they'd make a improvement for their citizens and they did it. Somewhere by centralization, somewhere by decentralisation. But it's all equal in the game. Neither the RS nor the Federation are an enemy part of this country, and if anyone thinks that, possibly, even by transferring jurisdiction to these two entities will be better and more functional for BiH citizens, then we have nothing to talk about. The total politicisation that, here comes counterpart Džaferović, because if I had been to a session of the Constitutional Commission, she would have had a completely different view. And that tells you how the Constitutional Commission works. Here I was, you have that attitude. If I were, this speaks of constitutional justification and mode of work and arguments of the Constitutional Commission. And that's one of the indicators of how strong her arguments are when it comes to not only this matter but also some others. I think that the Constitutional Commission, in which I, too, completely failed my exam with this law and that, indeed, in this respect, it is necessary to see what can be done because it loses all meaning, that kind of voting. And I think we're being ridiculous in public, because the same clichés we use for 50 laws, all of a sudden, when the second law comes, someone doesn't like it and they have to struggle to explain in an argumentable, legal way that they can't, even though it's clear to everyone that it's a missed topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21325	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm looking to turn myself in here, because you all have the ability to sign up electronically. I mean, I'm really asking you, I mean, we can make a circus out of this house all you want, you know. Just say we all make a deal, and I'll help. But I mean jumping in when I'm closing the debate, telling everyone, so it really doesn't make sense. I'm asking you to really respect each other. So, here, I asked five times for a hearing, so there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no. Here, I'm looking, you have the possibility of an electronic application, there's no one reported, and that's why I've concluded the debate. I didn't see any hands raised to answer, and then, when I do, you answer. It really doesn't make sense. I mean, don't be angry no matter who it was, but I'm trying to make it possible for everyone to have the opportunity to participate, and let me run the session. Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21326	I must say, Mr. Chairman, that everything was going on in two or three seconds. If I'm one or two seconds behind on the conclusion, I've accepted here and that you've concluded the debate and I haven't responded to it. However, this second part of the argument, I don't think it's very correct for me, given that I've concluded that you've concluded, I wouldn't answer. But now that you're discussing it like someone's interrupting the session, and so on, I don't think it's really standing right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21327	I'm closing the debate. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda: 5 Ad. Seven. Report on the work of the State Committee for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in BiH for the period from 1.1.2008 to 30.6.2008, with the Proposal for Conclusions The State Commission's report was delivered on 16.9.2018. The report discussed the relevant Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, young people, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics and 20.10. delivered its Opinion on the Report. You've been given the Joint Committee's opinion. In addition to the opinion, the House Committee proposes the conclusions: - To accept the report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in BiH for the period from 1.1.2008 to 30.6.2008; - To require the Council of Ministers of BiH to honour the conclusions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly taken at separate sessions of the Representatives' and the House of Peoples held on 13 February 2008 and 25 February 2008; - The report should be delivered as information to all resolution ministries that conducted the first-degree procedure and made decisions on granting BiH citizenship as well as to the competent judicial authorities for the purpose of competent treatment. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21329	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will try briefly to say a few sentences and a few of the things in this report. And I have to say right away at first that I appreciate what she did and is doing to the State Commission for the Review of Citizenship, and I think she had a very difficult task ahead of her, and I think there's still a lot of work ahead of her, and I think that this Parliament should enable her and ensure that she continues her work. What is said in the Report of the State Commission for the Review of Citizenship concerns co-operation with the first-degree bodies in which these bodies are co-operated by the Commission: there is one worrying fact, and it concerns the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the documents that this ministry should have given to the State Commission for the Review of Citizenship, which is owned by the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been in this period since '92. '95. For years it has betrayed or given BiH citizenship. It says in this section that the files, i.e. the items requested by this commission, were not delivered by the RS Interior Ministry. They were informed that they had been destroyed, and under the term 'destroyed', which was used in the record since 28.12.2007, it means that the files, the objects, because of the frequent migration and the unconditional accommodation were damaged to this extent and in 6 decaying conditions for the reasons of unconditional archiving and eating moisture, dust, and destroyed by rodents and as such could not serve their purpose. There is a frantic fact here that the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia has a lot of mice and rodents, which in a certain way cause serious damage to BiH, and this high home here should take certain measures to remove these mice, so that BiH will not have any damage in the future when it comes to documentation from different areas, which is located in the RS Ministry of Interior. I think that this House should, in its conclusion, order an urgent deratiation of the RS Ministry of Interior so that both this commission and future commissions and various domestic and international institutions can do their job for the benefit of citizens in this country. Therefore, I hope that both this committee and this House and the Council of Ministers will deliver valid conclusions at this session today so that this situation does not take place in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21330	The following has been reported by the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković. Excuse me, Mr. Živković, since I'm obviously talking too fast... I have to go back. Honorable representative Kalabić, replica. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21331	Mr. Chairman, I'm really sorry. It wasn't the intention of any obstruction and last time I thought you'd start with the list from the previous session where I was registered for discussion. I'm sorry, I think I was just in time when you interrupted the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21332	I started with the list, but you weren't there when I started with the list.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21333	It's up to me. I said why I answered. I had no intention of obstructing it, but I was referring to it, and here I was wrong. And it's not really my intention, but when I listen to Mr Ahmetović, well, that's his usual story when it comes to a little cartoon, but I'm willing to support it. That kind of deratiation, if some of the operations that are conducted in Afghanistan and Iraq were to be conducted in the Federal MUP, some of that extent, and then here we can talk about the deratization.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21334	Any more replicas? There isn't. 7 Dear, there is a replica of the esteemed replica, I ask if there is? I'm not in a hurry anymore. We'll take it easy now. There's no one left for the replica. The next is the other vice-president, Dr. Milorad Živković, for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21335	Thank you, Chairman. I would return to the agenda point, and that these issues, these conclusions, should be left to this agency for BiH, to this department of deratization, and to ask questions to the people who are here in front of this agency. Perhaps we should have heard the report on the work, but also the Council of Ministers which he did not have so he could answer us. Namely, why the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly were not respected, in particular the conclusion number 2 where it is said that during the period in which this agency's mandate has been extended, which is a year, legal and other assumptions will be created through the resolution ministry to continue the process of revising naturalised foreign citizens in BiH. We are all aware that this agency was created by the lack of political power that was in the Council of Ministers to solve this problem and under the influence of international organisations that helped us to create and create this agency that we gave the authority to, which should be legally resolved and returned to... the institutions of BiH, i.e. the competent ministries. On the other hand, on page 6 of this report, there is a very worrying decree, which reads, in the second paragraph: 'Introducing the files of cases that have been taken over by the DKP Stuart, there has been a finding that material regulation has been incorrectly applied in the assignment of citizenship.' I am interested in whether something has been done by the competent institutions to verify it and that the appropriate penalties are being examined, because it is obvious that this agency is already finding out, and not only suspect that it has been violated, that a material regulation has been incorrectly applied, and therefore I propose an additional conclusion, which reads: - The BiH Parliamentary Assembly has been familiar with the report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in BiH since 10.9.2008, to misapply the material regulation in the DKP, which referred to the time before the regulation was adopted with the legal power of the BiH State of the Republic of BiH "Official Messenger" No 27/03 since 31.12.1993 and asks the BiH Prosecutor for information on the activities taken from their jurisdiction, in order to process the responsibility of the mentioned DKP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21336	Thank you. No replicas, no replicas. Okay, thanks. The next is for the debate the esteemed representative Bakir Izetbegović. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21337	So, Mr Sadik Ahmetović, funnyly, ironically, responded to something that was ironically contained in this report. Namely, when they asked the RS MUP where the files were, they said they were eaten by mice, that the dust had fallen and that it had eaten them etc. He says they were damaged to this extent, in a decaying state for reasons of unconditional afrigeration, moisture, dust, and destroyed by rodents. But even if it's radioactive dust, it's not just mice. It's dust. I've never heard of dust eating up files, documents, because somewhere they fall a metre of dust, and then they find libraries, they pile up there, and they find the files of three or four thousand years old, but here I'm worried about the healing of people who are near that dust and those mice, so I really need to do something. And it didn't happen in the Federal MUP, it was in the report in the RS MUP, but we can look everywhere at what's going on with mice and dust, right? Then, on page 6, on the basis of insight into the case files which are subject to review, and persons from the former SFRY area assigned to naturalisation, there was an indication that more than 60% of these persons do not have an address or residence in the BiH area. So, about 12 thousand people. So the SDA offers, after a funny discussion, some serious conclusions. - We propose to task the Ministry of Security of the Council of Ministers to initiate competent and judicial authorities to act on the information contained in the Report of the State Commission for the Review of Naturalisation Decisions, etc. 1. To review information on the disappearance, alleged destruction, a large number of files, cases at the RS Ministry of Security, page 3. Reports; 2. Indicators that about 12,000 people assigned to the state by naturalisation do not have an address or residence in the BiH area, page 6. Reports. So please support.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21338	Thank you. The following has been reported by Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21339	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members, representatives of information funds, NGOs, the international community, commissions and other guests, here, I will say a few words about this report and I will make a proposal for conclusions in terms of the better work of this committee and as soon as possible to address this issue. And last year, when we had this paper report, I made some conclusions that were misread and misread by individuals or by committees or from some other institutions, but here I think there will be no confusion. I, first of all, support the work of this committee and when it was a proposal to extend its work, I voted for it, because I think that this commission really should exist and should work and that 9 even if it is being considered, I have heard that it is being thought, that this commission should stop working, and that this is being given to another state body to work, I think that it may also need to think about it, so my full support to this commission. However, I want to ask a few questions to the rapporteur, there are, are, yes, and I will make some comments so that I can conclude that perhaps after their answer, I am fully formulating. My first question, before I comment on how I understood it and heard it: - Why did a small number of cases, or why a small number of cases have been audited? It's my opinion that she's small. Why, for what? During 2006 and 2007, out of 4.259 cases, the review was carried out only for 1,255 cases, of which 661 persons were made a decision to take citizenship, 594 persons were found to have no legal failures and you confirmed the same solutions. During the first six months of 2008, of 19,182 items, you only audited 1,355, from which you found that only 20 people were given a solution to the withdrawal of citizenship and for others that the solutions were issued in accordance with the law. My comment is next. Is that why it was at the previous special session of both homes, which Mr. Chairman commented, when it comes to compensation for the work of this committee, and my question and my comment may be based on the same, that the non-payment of your commission which you have stated in this report is one of these reasons that, in my opinion and in the opinion of other people whom I have consulted, a small number of citizenships, or audits, are carried out. If that is the case, the Council of Ministers should also be shown and you should resolve these problems with each other because the non-payment of the commission must not be questioned by the work of this commission. Furthermore, how many solutions have been annulled or re-determined by the Court of BiH for the re-determination of this commission? To tell me what percentage is this compared to the total number of solutions against which the administrative dispute before the Court of Justice of BiH was initiated? I have the data, and if they're right, I'm disappointed. That's because last year I've been discussing something in terms of it, and if it's true that my data is true that you've been returned from 40% to 60% of the solution, or either cancelled or re-audited, if that percentage is true, then you'll tell me, exactly, then your job can't be good, if it comes back to you, let's say, between 40% and 60% to return 50% of the solutions, then there's something wrong with that. - How long does it take this commission to complete the review of all BiH citizenship acquired by naturalisation between 6 April 1992 and 1 January 2006? According to some of my accounts of the 24,000 items you've downloaded so far, this commission has audited for the past two and a half years of 1,600 or so, which is 7% to 8% a year, if I've calculated it well, from the total number of items subject to review. It would take you 10 to 12 years to review all the solutions. If so, how do you see the solution to this problem, or the solution to this revision, within as short a time limit as possible? Could be the electronic database of the subtracted bh. To integrate citizenship into the CIPS database and the electronic database of the AISM Information System, in order to make the 10 data listed effectively available to law enforcement bodies such as SIPA, Border Police, OSA, MUPs, etc.? Because I have data to take away citizenship and solutions, etc. Not to that extent, my data suggests, transparently that these data are also needed by these state authorities to have and immediately recognize the person whose citizenship has been taken away, to be deprived of liberty or to do what they should do. Did this commission in its work so far check the possible reasons for the exceptions of certain members of the State Commission? First of all, I mean members of the Ministry of Civil Affairs in terms of Articles 35 and 40. Law on administrative procedure in BiH. Now, if the chairman allows you to answer this, then I would suggest conclusions. If not, then I will read my proposals for conclusions that I think may not be changed after the answer I will receive from the representative of this committee. The proposal for a conclusion is as follows: - The Commission, the Ministry of Security of BiH, the Service for Foreign Affairs and the Border Police of BiH, and the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, the CIPS Directorate, undertakes to take over the database of the seized bh within three months from the Commission. Nationalities acquired by naturalisation and are incorporated into the CIPS and the AISM, means an information system for foreigners, in a way that makes them operational and accessible to BiH law enforcement bodies. Because it's not worth it to us if the solution isn't in the function of possible execution. - The Commission undertakes to publish all names of persons deprived of bh as soon as possible in the "Official Messenger of BiH". the nationality acquired by naturalisation and that it does so at least once a month during its work or at least once a month if it is a long time. - The Commission is required to work more efficiently on the revision of bh. citizenship acquired by naturalisation, in accordance with the laws in BiH. - From the SIPA and the BiH Prosecutor's Office, we ask the BiH Parliament to report on measures taken against persons who are being brought into contact with the illegal assignments of bh as soon as possible. citizenship based on natrualisation in the period from 6 April '92. By 1 January 2006, at all levels of government in BiH, because there is still no such report, then I fear that one day it will say that it is obsolete. That would be roughly my comment, questions and suggestions for conclusions, and all in order to put an end to this final commission that, in my opinion, does this job, probably to the extent that it can work, but that this job should be done as soon as possible and put an end to this problem once, because this is the subject of both politicization and the subject of making life more difficult for all those persons who are subject to the revision of these citizenships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21340	Chairman Lozančić, discussion. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21341	Ladies and gentlemen, representatives, honored guests, if not as they are, I would think that this commission to which this Parliament has given the task of reviewing what the state authorities of this country have done, and not so, I would think that they have also issued citizenships, that they have granted non-critical citizenships, that they were then trying to hide through this revision what they were doing, that, although they are all encouraged to do so, they, however, hate to do so, have not worked etc. This commission was formed because the country's competent institutions, which were given by the Constitution and the law, were competent to deal with issues of citizenship -- were not doing the job. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. It was established, first, by the Council of Ministers law, and then we extended its mandate after failing, during that term, to do the job we put her on as a task. Why couldn't she do her homework? It's not because she's being obstructed, and whoever arrived has obstructed her. And they did a miracle of what they did and what they did. And if I didn't miss out on the comments of all of this to say, the only thing that I think is right at this point, given all of that, is to give credit to the members of this committee for everything they've done so far and support them to continue to work, aware of the fact that they will continue to be obstructed. In the assembly of this Parliament, this is the third or fourth report of this committee, and in each report there are approximately the same or similar arguments, the same or similar information that they have difficulties in cooperating with obtaining documentation in this or that. We have been discussing these issues for two years, and we have consistently concluded that this report should be delivered to the competent judicial authorities of the law enforcement authority, etc. I have not yet heard that someone has launched an investigation even though we are talking here about hundreds of illegally assigned citizens, dozens or more taken away as illegally assigned, about granting citizenship when there was no legal basis at all to do so. That it was done and that it was done both by SIPA and the D.A. and security agencies in the country, from the level of canton through entity interior ministries etc. To the level of the state, today this commission would be much easier to work on. But apparently no one has yet to answer for the fact that BiH's citizenship has been shared as if it were his private property, then it is easiest for us to now criticise the work of this commission which is neither guilty nor debtor, which has been in trouble in all this. And look, they already have problems in their work. Today, if you have registered, you had a question from an envoy because it was put in the Committee when this report was discussed and you heard a reply from the chairman of the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers decided to be principled on this commission, because, as they do during their working hours, they are doing all the work, and that is why they are receiving an orderly salary and that is why this home will not be concluded either, because the Council of Ministers is in principle not to pay for the work of this commission, even though this home has said it has to do so. But the Council of Ministers is not in principle to wonder why this commission exists and if anyone else has been paid in this Council of Ministers to do so without a commission that receives regular salaries. Now, that's also principled. And we today need to deepen this conclusion and insist, this is a parliamentary commission, we have established it, meaning by our own conclusion or by the Council of Ministers or by the competent financial service of Parliament, means that people who have done this very painful work in which they are all obstructed are provided and adequately compensated. There are a lot of those we could save on if we wanted to, there are a lot of things that we could build 12 principles about whether we should pay or not, but I don't think it's right, because at least it's incorrect to train it, to say, on this committee. I want to bet we're not making it harder for this committee to work further. I think the conclusions proposed by the Committee, our parliamentary commission, are sufficient and sufficient to support the work of this committee. And I think that the irony or ridicule of the work of this committee does not contribute to its support, but further leads to nonsense, so let's not be surprised if there is no one to submit this report to us in any future period because the question is who will work in this commission at all. Thank you very much. Dear First Vice-President Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21342	Actually, it's not a discussion, but I'll take the opportunity to say that I agree with most of what Mr. Lozančić was talking about. But most of all, I came out to ask, to explain myself, Mr. Pandurević, in the conclusions he proposes. So, this conclusion 2., where it says: 'The report as information to be delivered to all resolution ministries that conducted the first-degree procedure and made decisions on granting BiH citizenship as well as the competent judicial oragans for the sake of competent treatment.' So, is it possible on the basis of this report, is this a document that produces some competent treatment, because the conclusion I have made is that you are now delivering this paper to those authorities for competent treatment? To explain to me what the proper course of action is, is it possible to do so?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21343	Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Oh, I'm looking at this technique because I was the first to sign up, but good. So, completely sticking to your story, Mr. Chairman, giving maximum support to the work of this committee, I want a few things, not to ask them here to give me answers now, but to improve and speed up the work of this commission. For example, they said they co-operated with all BiH institutions. But when we talk about institutions, the court, the prosecution, and, I don't know, some other things, no one blames me, but I have to make some digression, some parallel data, to see the picture really of the country we live in, because that's best for us, to explain where we are. I don't mind Mr Agović's work dispute. But the BiH Court reached a verdict in 15 days. People have been waiting for years in the BiH Court of Justice, so here I am, having a three-year work dispute, I can't get in line. Mr Agović – In 15 days, the Court has already decided that it must return to work. What system are we talking about? Well, that's just it. As far as possible, here's the question, and when I say this, there's those politicians pressing on the BiH Court. That's not true. Are we going to live with these anomalies that are going on 13 so let's say here, so I'm not asking for a report to be commented on, but I'm giving support. And when the first report was, I said, a strange one may have been a sentence, it says, granted BiH citizenship on the basis of legal rules that were not passed. Well, how will regulations be applied if they haven't been passed? So, absurd to absurd. Furthermore, I fully agree with my colleagues and what they say are these mice, yes, those documents need to be seen who they are. It doesn't just need deratization, it needs disinfection and disinfection, all of it involved, all of it. So then there are here, let's say, that the Commission has excluded 1,674 items that have not formed a file cover and there is no accompanying documentation. Must specify which items are concerned. The second thing, the whole work of this committee, my people, you may not like the story, but it is, it's based on the assignment of citizenship to foreign citizens from African-Asian countries. I understand Mr. Izetbegović's illusion that he thinks that 12 Srbin from Croatia immediately came here. Well, I don't trouble the question of what may have come, I don't know the number, but as many Bošnjak from Sandzak are, but they were neither foreigners nor reports nor the assignment of citizenships nor naturalization, but they are citizens from exactly these countries. Here, let me add, there were Rus. How much? Come on, Rus! There was a Grk. Come on, Grk! Give it all. And don't pick me up selectively, just like every one of our stories is directed against mujahedin, against those downstairs who came in during the war. I'd love to, this report is only good statistics, but if the D.A. told me, as I heard the minister today, in the first report 661 lost citizenship, where are they? Are they expelled? In the immigration center of 25 beds, there are six of them playing ball. They banished, went alone, where are they? So do our services and one service in Europe cooperate? There is no one here who does not, as far as intelligence is concerned, there is no one who has not covered BiH. So, the report as statistics, it won't solve anything. So once again I will underline that – I did not stop to know what I was going to say but to let Niko hear, so I am on the back of your initiatives – if we have set up this committee and we have, we have extended its mandate, are we going to allow for, I don't know, how much money to shut down, end its work, as many commissions we have set up have finished. Do you remember, just to remind you... Ask the question, where are the 230,000 marks? [[Disable microphone]] And now these people may need to be given 10,000, I don't know what they're asking, and now we're gonna stop the work. Guys, I'm gonna finish. I know you're sick of me. I didn't, I want to listen to you, and I'm going to listen to a lot of people, but I'm going to have to do it again. I respect Mr Bećirović really when he says and calls on this member of the Constitution, and I am just asking every session to be respected by the Constitution. I ask nothing but respect for the Constitution. And when we respect the Constitution, there is no transfer of jurisdiction. Listen, now these stories have been invented from BiH level to entity. Where else can he go? _________(?) 14 [[no microphone turned on]] I'm sorry, I don't know where this place is, but I'll be there to visit, it doesn't matter. So let's get people serious. Here, you've seen how much trouble we've put in today. It's all this. We can tell, I'm out of the agenda, here's the maximum support for the sequel, but look. At the first session when this issue was opened, I asked and remain in favour of Mr. Živković's conclusion, why no institution has investigated people or at least told us who these people who issued 200 citizenship decisions in one day. Do we know who these people are? It's not a state secret, people! Here they are sitting in institutions, here, don't let me count them, etc. So this commission did a great job. It should continue, and in my opinion, we don't need to be trapped by the Bošnjak from Sandzak. It was one country. Or did the Srbin come from Croatia? I wish they'd stayed there. The whole story is, what is today, we heard the story: The Security Council intervenes because of maybe five individuals. I'd tell you how many individuals there are that are potential dangers, but I don't want to share the state's secret. I signed there. But you don't have to scare the people that there are thousands of them, there isn't. The security of the country is most important. People are going to starve, they're going to have less money, but only that a safe child is allowed to go to school and to the store. And that's all this, the report. Now look.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21346	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21347	Here I go. Of course, I took the discussion if I crossed over, so the finding is clear if you agree, I can't decide, maximum support to this committee, if we need to step up with the number of members, to form another and let them learn from them. Because you see how many objects have come? They solved a small number, they can't make it. And please turn on the light when you get out of the office and somebody sees you work at 7:00, so they'll pay you. That's where it came from. Oh, come on, people, come on. Let's finish this one time. We'll all have problems. I don't want Bošnjak carrying a burden because of, I don't know, dozens or, I don't know, how many mujahedins. Guys, they were. And you said it, they were. But why should they embarrass you? It's not you. It's not our intention to identify me or anyone. Let's get rid of it, so it's your interest to finish this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21348	There are no more applications for discussion. I would like to ask a member of the Committee, Mr Pandurević, if he would like to answer a few questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21349	... I can answer some questions and some of the dilemmas that were raised in today's debate. I would like to try in order how Mr. Okolić asked the question, why has 135 been examined so far, etc. 15 I can tell you quite frankly that there has been a problem in the relationship between the implementation of the conclusions made by this parliament when it comes to compensation for the work of this commission. I have to tell you this openly. It is not my question whether I, as a member of the Commission, will receive compensation, it is certainly one burden that I have received with the position of assistants, but for me to finish the job, end it, whether I am in that commission or not. So. But in any case, it deserves to make certain efforts and a certain understanding that the work ends in some due time. You asked the question: When can it end? If we were to use this dynamic, it really is your assessment that is correct. However, there is another dynamic. Let's all support this committee, then it can be completed within a year and a half to two years. Why? Well, look, for the first time in the report, we've now stressed that we've come to the volume of an object that comes to a figure of 22,000. Whether it's going to be a final number, we can't say it right now, because at the stage of one technical job, a job... solving a case. Somewhere we have an object as a solution, somewhere we have a shirt where a request has been made. Look, all we have to do is get us into an electronic database, and it takes four people to work for two or three months. Watch out, so we're faced with certain things and people who do, so administrative staff isn't motivated to work because these fees aren't paid. I say that one of the main reasons why the effects are not further is therefore through which the Commission appreciates that, therefore, the state, that Parliament, that the Council is not interested in the work of the Commission. So it's not that commission in the commission category, well, we formed a commission not to do anything! This commission has done something. Furthermore, what Mr. Jovičić is is not here, but I would like to make my point in favour of his views. Be careful, I believe, when it comes to the issue of citizenship, only this commission has done its part of the job from BiH institutions. This issue has its own criminal and legal aspect, it has a security and justice aspect, you know. The question is, where are the people we audited? At the invitation, in general, about 1,300 people who were subject to the first wave, so outside the Yugoslav space, a very small number appeared. In this category of persons, therefore, which are from Yugoslav space and which have been admitted into the DKP network, you will not believe that only 15 people have reported, and it proves that they have an interest in maintaining Bosnian Herzegovina citizenship. And over half of his face didn't log into the CIPS database, so he didn't report his residence here, he didn't get his I.D. This means that the minimum effective relationship with BiH has no, you know. Now that's where the dilemma is set out for this commission how to act. I'd like to ask you one more thing. I, you see, often come to these, and when the Commission and Mr Vuković are delayed, none of you from Parliament came to ask, well, I would like to get some more complete information, give them to us before Parliament. Mr. Okolić came out with a certain disinformation. I don't know where you got the information here. I can give you an exact indicator – so it may be from a month ago, whether anything has changed in the meantime – but you can get decadent information: 42 lawsuits against our 600 solutions and something taken away has been filed. From that it was returned to the retrial, there were certain dilemmas about identity, because we had a situation... that a man with 30 of some combinations of names appeared, returned to the re-proceeding process to determine the true 16 of his identity. There, that's two cases. Ten o'clock confirmed. Watch out, so there's 30 left that's unsettled. What would be very appropriate to the Commission is that other BiH institutions do the job, you know, like we do, and say: the other 30 are solved, so that we know whether we are wrong or not. Look, it's very good that we have control of what we're doing. And I think, what has been established so far, is that it is a good work that should just continue in the concept as it has been set up so far. So, the assessment is, to answer your question explicitly, with a strong support and resolution of these issues of compensation, be careful, it is about persons who do not have administrative staff, who do not have any personal income, as now have assistants after the increase, be careful to carry out these obligations, to strengthen, we have already taken certain measures. So we at the Ministry are thinking about a concept to extend or not to extend. So we have prepared amendments to the law, so that concept is fully respected, is it, like Parliament's conclusion. I believe, therefore, my personal belief, that with the support and performance of all tasks, it is most optimal for this commission to complete its work in the time period for which I estimate that it is between a year and a half and two. So, I don't know if I've ever failed to answer any questions, but I'm here to answer. Thank you. So, I would just support what you are, Mr. Chairman, you said: to deepen, indeed, the conclusion when it comes to resolving the issue of compensation! Because, look, we in the Commission have also had direct threats. It's a certain pressure that wasn't visible, but as members of the Commission, we clearly felt that something was going on between us, we didn't even alarm it, we were trying to make reports that there were no elements for politicization, to put one point on this issue, and I think we really, really... It has been a pleasure for me to be present at Parliament in situations where we have received one unreserved support. I think she's basically present now, except for these little misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21350	Thank you. Is the Honorable Representative Prodanović registered for debate or is it a mistake? Wrong! Okay. Replica, the Honorable Representative of the Okolić, who?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21351	You see, in the good part, we understood each other, and you confirmed what I said about a period of some kind, if it were to go through dynamics, to be that part and that part, but we didn't understand each other, and that's why I want to tell you that there's no misunderstanding. I didn't bring any misinformation here, like you just said, that I put out the misinformation, but I said that the information I got was that way, and that's why I asked you for an answer to make sure it wasn't like that or not. So I didn't claim it, you can check through the stenogram, that you were returned from 40% to 60% of your solutions, but I said I got the information that it was and I asked if it was true or not, to answer me. If you're behind what you just said, that's the answer I'm going to take for myself, and according to that answer, I'm going to act like one. 17 But I said, if you confirm if this is true what I heard, it's alarming and that, in my opinion, it's not good. So, I'm building up, you're wrong, I didn't say misinformation, I asked through a question based on what I heard. So if what you just said wasn't returned to that extent, then it's something that pleases me and I'm glad that you haven't got so many solutions knocked down, and we'll find more, if I have to, some details to talk about. Just so you know, I didn't bring the misinformation, but I asked the question, that's the difference.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21352	So this was a replica to Mr. Pandurević. Mr. Jukić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21353	Oh, here, I'll do it very briefly. First, let me give my support and support to the work of this committee. I think they're doing a good job here. And if the problem, or if it would help their better and better quality work, is some compensation for their work, I don't think it should be controversial. Of course, to be in accordance with some practice that we normally have in terms of funding supplemental work and work in such bodies. And here, just to say how important this is and how important it is in some two examples where I've been asked to help people achieve some kind of right, or to gain BiH citizenship in the last 10 years. One case, the merger of a family where the wife is a citizen of another country, had major problems and had to work very hard because our regulations are quite restrictive and rigorous to obtain BiH citizenship. I don't know if it's supposed to be to that extent that it's problematic and that it's difficult. And on the other hand, we can see that some people with no basis were getting that citizenship. And that's why I think it's very important that this commission does its job all the way. Another case, another example, a person from the former Yugoslavia, because they also often mention them here as one category or subcategories of people who have gained BiH citizenship, also had major problems and eventually gave up their citizenship of BiH, because it was so difficult and almost impossible, etc. etc. So, another argument that this job really needs to be done and, I think, as soon as it is finished, and so I think that the Commission should possibly be further complemented with an even greater number of people, capitulating it to be more able to work faster and even more quality, and that this job really ends in some reasonable time. For me, this deadline is a year – two days, and nothing more than that, because then, in my opinion, it loses meaning, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21354	Are there any more reported? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on the seventh agenda. 18 And before we begin to discuss the eighth item of the agenda, therefore the Interim report on the work of the Interresor Working Group on the draft Immunity Law, please the chair of the clubs to make sure that we do not lose. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, we don't have it every two minutes and it's a big question if we're gonna get to the vote. We didn't want to interrupt the session, but please a little discipline and patience. So let's go, I'm opening a debate on the eighth point: "Ad." 8. Temporary report on the work of the Interresor Working Group on the draft Immunity Law
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21357	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, this is the fourth consecutive report on the work of this Interresor Working Group, because I remind you that this is the same Interresor Working Group that has made amendments and amendments to the Election Law and submitted the report, amendments and additions to the Law on Conflict of Interest and submitted the Report, the amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of Political Parties and submitted the Report and, behold, at the end of the work itself, we have come to the conclusion that it is necessary to address one of the temporary reports of the Houses of Parliamentary Assembly which has appointed the Commission and to request further instructions regarding the regulation of immunity issues in BiH, since the work of this commission has resulted in two conflicting concepts and having in the way of working in the Interresor Working Group, which has always been the subject to the question of this House in the House, where it is necessary for us to be held in the House. We in BiH today have an Immunity Act that knows immunity from criminal and civil responsibility for MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and immunity from civil responsibility for members of the BiH Presidency and Council of Ministers, all related to the actions undertaken under the duties that these officials perform. This law has so far been reviewed by the Parliamentary Assembly and Council of Europe's Monitoring Team, in particular by a group of GRECO countries to fight corruption, and this report makes it clear that the immunity system we have in BiH and which is now in force is actually satisfactory and that only procedures related to the granting of that immunity need to be resolved. And the BiH Ministry of Justice has one of its 19 rules of procedure regulated these procedures and, in one concept and the opinion of the people who represent it and I belong to that group, we should not touch the existing capacities of immunity in BiH, but in order to possibly supplement the existing Law on Immunity, by turning it into legal provisions from the Justice Regulation that has already been made and which is in force in this law amending and supplementing the existing Immunity Act. Instead of provisions that are of business character, we would have these procedures governed by the law on amendments and additions to the Immunity Act. However, during the work of the Interresor Working Group – of course, the practice of all countries that could be relevant and serve BiH as an example – has been reviewed – a proposal for the text of the law has been made which has been changed several times from session to session of the Interresor Working Group. And its essence in relation to the existing situation is that it raises the issue of immunity, above all. The circle of immunity is being extended, so let me express myself, and besides this immunity from criminal and civil responsibility, it implies immunity for actions representing an opinion expressed in Parliament or in the Council of Ministers and in the Presidency. And then in an undefined way, the question of immunity from civil and criminal responsibility is raised again for actions that are related to it, but the problem is now what is the action. So the question arises whether we can really get into a situation where someone in BiH calls for immunity, that they have the right to call for immunity if they fall within the circle of those faces, make one car accident when they go to work or, I know, commit another crime. I personally believe that this is too wide a right to immunity and that what I had today should remain as some starting point or fundamental point for further consideration regarding these procedures. The second question, it's a matter of kind of immunity. The second question is the question of a circle of people covered by immunity. The current law does not know immunity from criminal responsibility for the holders of executive functions. I also believe that including executives and bringing in immunity from criminal agreement is one dangerous thing because representatives of the executive authority manage budgets, dispose of money, and I think that, above all, it should remain on the existing system and it should not be extended. And the third thing is the way, let's say conditionally, immunity is granted, or approved. The current system is such that in any particular case, in a concrete procedure, the court assesses whether a particular action related to the official duty of the elected immunity official is involved and called for immunity. And it really is the only place where it's possible to work, because the notion of an official shop or a business related to official duty, call it whatever you want, is one standard that can only be built based on court practice and only in such a way can answer those questions. That's why experts are needed. To leave this to the constitutional committees of Parliament or Parliament itself, I think it would lead to arbitration, in order to lead to different practices and I think it would be dangerous. And that is why we also have a warning from the Office of the High Representative, or we have a letter from the Office of the High Representative that draws attention to us so as to deviate from the recommendations of this group of countries to fight corruption, called GRECO. That's why I think in this situation, this is my personal opinion right now, this is not the Interresor Group's opinion, because the Interresor Group of what she thought it meant, but this is my opinion: I think today the House should either put this Interresor Working Group in charge of making amendments and supplements to the Immunity Act based on the recommendations of GRECO, so that 20 already prescribed procedures in this Immunity Act would be incorporated into this Immunity Act by the Ministry of Security's Immunity Act, or today to shut down the further functioning of this Interresor Working Group and tasked the Council of Ministers to make an amendment and supplementation of the Law on this trail. However you decide, or whatever Parliament decides, if it adopts one of these two proposals, it will not be wrong. Maybe it's best that this group finish this job on this trail. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21358	I would like to thank the honourable representative Džaferović. The following has been reported by the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21359	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, in order to be able to discuss this matter from the very beginning, I would like to remind you of Article IV point 3 under j) of the Constitution of BiH, which says: "Delegates and members will not be criminally or civilly responsible for any actions carried out under their duties in the Parliamentary Assembly." The BiH Constitution originally gave only MPs and delegates immunity from criminal and civil responsibility! All other immunities – can the latter be a little quieter than they do, obviously that nothing is heard, but well – all other immunities were subsequently obtained by legal acts, so that the High Representative who imposed his decision on the BiH Immunity Act extended the list of persons entitled to call on civil immunity in Article 3 where he says that members of the BiH Presidency and members of the BiH Council of Ministers will not be civil liability for any procedure carried out under their duties in the BiH presidency, or the BiH Council of Ministers. The Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, also imposed on the law, said in Article 10 - that members of the Council, and members of the board within the Council, would not be civil liability for the opinions they have expressed or the decisions they have made under their official duties. In 2001, when the law was passed in the Parliamentary Assembly, as regards the Election Commission, the Electoral Law, said in Article 28. 'For procedures carried out within the framework of duties and obligations', which have been established by these other laws,'members of the Central Election Commission will not be held guilty and civil liability. And below 2. 'The immunity of the stand (1) members of the CEC may be invoked at any time for the procedures carried out under their duties and obligations in the Central Election Commission of BiH, but it cannot be... with a general obstacle to criminal prosecution or the initiation of a litigation procedure.' I quote all of this to tell you that there is a devaluation of the institution of immunity in BiH, both from the initial position where only the Constitution gave it to MPs and delegates came to have immunity in BiH. My position on the Interresor Group was not to extend immunity, not by form of immunity, nor by involving individual members, but by reducing and returning to the initial position of the BiH Constitution, which was explicitly given only to MPs and delegates. And this law should actually read "The Law on the Immunity of MPs and delegates in BiH". And we in the Interresor Group should only determine the rules on how MPs and delegates will be able to call on 21 immunity, an institution that will also determine how immunity can be taken away. I am also prepared to discuss whether criminal and civil liability has its own measure in terms of the legal size of punishment for a committed crime, because we cannot interpret the Constitution so that it is understood for all possible activities, for all possible criminal acts that in the assembly hall, God forbid, someone is killed and called for immunity, since this was done here in Parliament as part of their duties. So, my intention is to go back to the Constitution and give this commission just the task of practically implementing these procedures by means of a certain regulation, to make them clearer and that they can be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21360	Thank you, Mr. Živković. The following has been reported to the esteemed representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21361	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, here, allow me to make a few remarks about the subject on behalf of the Party for BiH Club. First of all, thanks to the Commission and the chairman, here I will specifically, that it has provided us with one whole of the material, so it has enabled us to look at a whole picture of the issue of immunity. I especially appreciate the very useful contribution of the Research Centre that has been delivered to us here in this material and that for all those who have less contact with this topic, and I suppose most in this room, it provides really useful material like this to see how it is in countries that we often call on, with much more built systems regulated, and perhaps even how it's regulated in some countries that may have regulated it in one wrong way. The only thing I lack here is a little bit more regulation and a question of immunity when it comes to, say, the Council of Europe. Here I will specifically say, when we talk about the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which is a full member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which also regulates the issue of immunity. And let me just remind you that by regulation relating to immunity, in fact, it protects institutions from irresponsible individuals, that is, the behavior of individuals. Individuals are not protected for their irresponsible actions, except that individuals are protected for political views, which, when it comes to the Parliamentary Assembly, are presented in the course of their duties. Therefore, immunity is addressed to the institution, and therefore protects institutions and protects them from proposals that could have been heard or regulated that we still have in some countries when acting as officials in certain institutions and against criminal and civil liability which has nothing to do with the function they perform. 22 I must say that I was a little surprised when I read the existing law. Because he's left a lot of room for different interpretations, too. So let's say the actions that are related to the duties of MPs are also asked the question: what kind of action or question is not related to the duties of MPs or is not within the question that normal parliaments are dealing with in normal states? So there's a very wide range of issues that involve a formulation of this kind. I thank my colleague, Živković, who reminded us of the constitutional provisions, because there is one detail, if you have listened carefully to the one mentioned by fellow Živković, and this is the actions related to the exercise of office in the Parliamentary Assembly, so not outside the Parliamentary Assembly. I want to remind you of that, too. If, for example, these dilemmas and questions were to be used or possibly have some basis for future work in amendments or further detailing the questions that this committee has asked us here in its report (the question of the type of immunity, the extent of immunity and procedures, or the call for immunity), I would be pleased to respect some remarks. For example, in Article 3 of the existing law, i.e. Articles 1 and 3 of the existing law, it could indeed, or Article 8 may stand on some issues which are the basis of regulatory issues of immunity. I will only remind you that, in principle, the issue of immunity, so with that basic idea of protecting the institutions of one state, regardless of who performs the duty, when it comes to Parliament, parliamentarians are usually protected from political views expressed during the course of their duties, other than making false statements, that is, attacks and accusations of someone else. So, only when it comes to a political stance that excludes insults and attacks, etc., which is basically what gets Parliament that serves citizens and brings parliamentarians to the same level as the citizens they represent. I appreciate that this is a solution that BiH should also go to. When it comes to the length of the duration of immunity, i.e. the time for this type of immunity, there should be no time limit for all that MPs have expressed as political views during their term of office – for this they should always be protected. So, time limitless. Of course, it is limited, that is, only to a limited mandate in which MPs carry out their duties. Therefore, any extension of the issue of immunity from this repertoire or leprosy which, in my opinion, is already quite broad, sometimes unarranged, i.e. vague, involves perhaps some questions or opens up a space that may be behind these formulations to cover both holders with immunity and for some actions that are not specific to institutions, i.e. their mandates or individuals who perform those duties. I appreciate that in the coming period this commission should make one retuse of existing solutions in the spirit, of course, and of what counterpart Živković was talking about, certainly reducing and clarifying, or detailing, rather than extending issues relating to immunity, i.e. issues to which MPs or holders of duties could be called to protect against criminal, or civil prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21362	Chairman Lozančić, discussion. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21363	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, together with the Council of Ministers and other institutions dealing with this matter, has formed an Interresor Working Group, which has on several occasions discussed this issue and you have a provisional report. I'm one of the members of this Interresor Working Group. Why couldn't we finish the job on this? Because there are different views, very simple. __________? Chairman, you're very weak in your voice. I can make it louder. So we haven't made a new immunity law because there is no same position within the Interresor Working Group on certain issues that, in my opinion, in every normally arranged state, there should be an identical position. You, distinguished MPs, said one key thing, here's a few times you've repeated it in the context of your presentation. What is immunity and what does it serve? Is immunity protecting the integrity of a function or an irresponsible individual there? We've been discussing this issue the whole time, starting with the fact that we don't have any responsible functions in this country, but we have a lot of irresponsible individuals. And we must not allow these individuals to protect themselves by something called immunity in democratic systems and by protecting the integrity of functions. I really can't imagine where that level of mistrust is coming from? Come on, I understand we don't trust anyone else, that someone else doesn't trust us. But if we don't trust ourselves this much, I just don't have the answer to that question. It's beyond the possibility of real judgment. Why is it our problem to clearly specify certain issues, and related to the types of immunity, and to the way and obtaining that immunity, and to the way that we call on that immunity, and to the end of immunity, because it exists as a possibility, and to the circle of institutions for which we estimate that it is important to protect them and immunity? I agree that there is a provision in the BiH Constitution that defines the right to immunity only for the envoys and MPs, it is well known. Does that mean we're in favor of abolishing immunity for members of the presidency? Do you know where the example of a country in the world might be, I have to say, but I don't know, in which president of the state has no immunity? The Prime Minister, who we call the chairman of the Council of Ministers here, but he is, by all elements, the Prime Minister of BiH, because we do not have another government, the minister in that government, which we immediately think is irresponsible individuals. Let's change them, we decide right here. But we must protect the integrity of the function, not Nikola Špirić, not Bariša Čolak, not Tarik Sadović, etc., to order not everyone else, but the integrity of the BiH government. I'll remind you now that I was the promoter, as some said at the time, of the scandalous proposal for an immunity law, which I wanted to extend that nebulosis from something, I don't know more than 24 to call it, and give, to extend the privileges of elected officials. The particular cause of my proposal at the time was that little affair, to call it that, with no arrest, and possible arrest on that dysfunctional pursuit of one of the representatives of this house. And just by acquiring the circumstances, it didn't happen, but not because the system has the answer to the fact that the MP of this parliament wasn't put in a police car and taken to another state to be tried for something that exists there. What normal state in the world allows itself such a thing? But with us, according to our Immunity Act, that's possible. Now, let's imagine a situation tomorrow for someone to create a dysfunctional BOLO for all of us here and for all members of the Council of Ministers and for the BiH Presidency. Interpol Service, SIPA must comply with these requirements. We don't have immunity to protect ourselves, they have to hand us over our services to someone who's looking for us, someone in a world who's interested in looking for us at some point, for some political reasons. And in this country, no one has the opportunity to discuss and decide, not even in this House. So at this point, that's how it is. That is why I am a supporter, firstly, that we have a new immunity law, secondly, to define the scope of the duty protected by immunity, and I will say very briefly – I think that these are certainly both homes of Parliament, I think they are certainly members of the Presidency and I think they are certainly members of the Council of Ministers of BiH. I think that all these three institutions should have the same level of immunity, and that the withdrawal of immunity at the request of the competent authority, before which one of them is called for immunity, is decided, in the procedure prescribed, Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly, or the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. And let's not be afraid of ourselves. If we are all here or most of this Parliament that we will protect the holders of our duties and when they really don't deserve our protection, then it's not them or the law, it's us. But if we are truly prepared to protect in principle the dignity and integrity of functions, duties, I see no reason for fear of immunity, especially for the holders of these most responsible duties in BiH. We can continue to belittle all these institutions, but it is not consistent with my commitment to strengthening. So, it just doesn't work out with each other. We're either for reinforcements or we're not? If we're about to weaken these institutions, there's no problem, and this Immunity Act needs to be abolished, it doesn't mean anything spectacular. So here I'm saying that this law is not passed because of me or because of the individual of you, this country needs a law that protects the integrity of the most responsible duties in this country and I don't see any reason why we don't just start thinking that way. I don't want countless possible examples of who I'd like to explain what I just said, and I want to invite all of you to define yourself as a model, but if it's one or the other and there's no willingness to approach, then it's wise to give up this job and leave this law that we have, which neither smells nor smells. So let everyone read it as he has read it so far and use it as he has used it so we will see until some more favourable climate is created that we really talk seriously about something called - the protection of the integrity of the most responsible duties in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21365	Deputy Živković, incorrect quote. We have a report of Mr. Okolić's discussion. What about you, Mr. Džaferović? 25
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21366	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21367	He's giving up the Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21368	Thank you. The Natačan quote is in the part that says - are we going to take away someone's immunity or are we not going to take away? The question is crucial - will we, as legislators and delegates who pass the law, give immunity or not, and what kind of immunity? The law imposed by the High Representative was given to the Presidencies and members of the ministries, only immunity in the domain of civil responsibility, not criminal responsibility. But there's also a question -- what about the CEC, is it an independent institution that we've given both criminal and civil responsibility? What about the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, which received both the same and the other kind of responsibility, as I recall, and the question is whether, apart from the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, means High Judicial Council, members of the Constitutional Court of BiH, so let's give it to the CEC, to RAC, to give it to the Board of Directors, etc., etc. Where is the point of our proposal to give everyone immunity? I say, "Let's put an end to it when we talk about the Constitution, so we settle it with the Constitution, what's now resolved only by the Constitution for MPs and delegates, and not now by the laws to go infinitely and put an end to someone who falls to where it would be good to do so." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21369	Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, I assume the correction of the incorrect allegations, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21370	Well, call it whatever you want. Let me just say a few sentences, there's a reason to put it in the Rules of Procedure. So all the caution shown by the Interresor Working Group is approximately in the following. So when the law is written, then they try to predict some situations, some cases, is it, and based on the intended or assumed test of legal solutions, otherwise the law cannot be passed otherwise. We have a law that says the holder of the post, it is thought that MPs of the House of Peoples and MPs of the House of Representatives will not be liable for any proceedings carried out under their duties in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Members of the BiH presidency, members of the Council of Ministers will not be civil liability for any procedure carried out under their duties in the presidency, or the BiH Council of Ministers. And then, he says, "If during the criminal proceedings one of these persons states that the procedure which constitutes the basis for the initiation of that criminal... was carried out under his duties, as defined in Article 4, this issue will be discussed and resolved by the decision of the relevant court." Standard procedural rules governing the resolution of such issues, including the establishment of a relevant court to resolve them, are prescribed by the relevant ministry. 26 The essence here in the words, therefore, is the essence here in the words 'executed in the framework of their duties in the Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers and the Presidency' and the practice so far, given this solution and the regulation brought by the Ministry of Justice, it mainly refers to the spoken word here in Parliament or in the Council of Ministers or, as I know, in the BiH Presidency. And there's no way that he can handle cases of an MP sitting in a car, making a car accident out of his house, and then calling for it. You can't call on that. So practice has brought it down to this, and I think it's okay. All we're asked now is that what's been said in the law to do to the Department of Justice, which it did to this rule to make us the law. What's another concept that I don't think is right? She says, she first extends that circle of faces, but let's let it go now, says: 'The holder of the functions referred to in Article 1 of this law will not be held liable for any proceedings carried out under his duty. And then, he says, 'In the sense of this law, the procedure carried out under his duty is considered any procedure arising from the duties of the holder of the office in the body of which he is a member.' Now, what's the catch? Whatever is done, whatever is done, past Parliament and beyond Parliament, and he says, "Immunity." This law stipulates that the court and the prosecutor and the police must stop. That's the concept I don't think is right. So they must stand on the Constitutional Commission and Parliament, that they say whether it is immunity or not. If they say yes, they have nothing to look for here because it is; therefore, Parliament needs to assess, which I think is unacceptable, whether it is within the scope of duty and whether it falls within the category of anything that can be called for immunity at all. Given the situation in which BiH is in mind, I must say that there are some countries in the world, it is seen from this report, which accepts this other one, they have in their system this other concept, but given the state in which BiH is located, given the way in which Parliament decides here, people, we can come into a situation where immunity is not in the function of what it should be immunity. So we can come up with a situation where immunity becomes a self-controversy. The task of immunity is – not to protect someone who has committed a crime but to enable people to do their job freely, the most responsible people in the country to do their job freely. And the objective of immunity can't be to protect criminals. I am afraid, given the situation in which BiH is located, given the way it is decided in the BiH Parliament, the Constitutional Commission and one and the other home, that perhaps sometimes, let's just say, that we may sometimes not get into a situation that doesn't happen to the other. I fear it and think that at this point in BiH should keep this existing system, it should be left with standards that build up court practice. It's standards, I know what one court means, and then another court, and then combing, and so on and so forth, so the standard that the court applies is built. It requires us and this group called GRECO and I think it's the only way we need to go. Mr. Lozančić, I agree with you to shut this down. Let's keep the law like this. I don't think we worked for nothing after all. We've made this report, at least we've educated what it looks like here. That's it. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21371	Mr. Lozančić, President of Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21372	I must say I didn't understand, before it was a correction to an incorrect quote from the esteemed vice president. There may be a difference in political opinion about a concrete solution, here I am, just the whole time through this debate. What the distinguished representative Džaferović was talking about was also a political stance on believing in BiH institutions and irresponsible individuals sitting in them. I disagree with that attitude, and I will never agree, no matter who it comes from. So, I believe that BiH institutions have the best possible citizens of this country, because they have received the legitimacy of all citizens of this country, there are no better ones. From the MPs in this home, there's no better in this country. There will probably be better ones in the next election. There are no better members of the presidency... than the BiH government is no better because it has received the support of this majority here. And we need to start changing the logic of thinking about ourselves, not about individuals. I don't like your views, Mr. Džaferović, about this, but only your views. But that doesn't mean that you're reducing your immunity as an agent, you're a representative in this house, and a very esteemed representative. Just because you and I disagree on something doesn't mean that I doubt you as an agent. And we need to get rid of it so we can question the way we decide if we're going to need hoods to discipline a representative. A little tomorrow! Who's gonna decide? Who's going to arrest the MPs without this house? That's what I stand for. Don't say that. There are no institutions in this country if we think so. So let's not do that. So, we have to secure the dignity, this home right here. And that other home, a small number, until it's much more numerous, I hope, and I don't know the other one as it will be, to ensure our dignity. To protect the integrity of those who are there, as much as we don't like their views at some point. And that's why there's immunity. It's not me, because the easiest thing to say is not the law, I agree, I didn't say the Immunity Act is the protection of criminals. Because I don't think criminals sit in these homes and the Presidency and the Council of Ministers. And if one of them happens to take off beyond what's called 'his powers' and commits a crime, well, then it's our conscience and responsibility to say, "Dear colleague, you have no right anymore, because you insult this institution and you have no right to enjoy immunity as other honourable members of this institution!" I don't see what we'd be afraid of, unless we have a premonition that there's always going to be some wrong judgment and some right. So let's not make the wrong argument. ......... I said it very simply. It could have happened to the distinguished representative Bešlagić to end up in the Belgrade Special Court with Ilija Jurišić, and that we are crouching here over his fate, or simply, and that our 28 security services take him away, which is an even greater tragedy. It could have happened, as much as you're now convincing me and I of you, because it's the only court that at this point could have decided on his immunity to this law, not this home. And if it didn't happen to anyone, it means to an institution that none of them would happen, I stand for it, for this capacity of immunity. And that only Parliament decides whether someone needs to be taken away from immunity or not. And I believe that this Parliament, whatever anyone thinks of it, with a wide range of different political views, can still make responsible and serious decisions, as are the taking of immunity. And I don't see any reason why we should be afraid to define it by law, and precise, and procedurally, and to be clear, that everyone knows. At this point under this law, it's court, but by the time the question comes to court, here's what I said earlier about what might happen. So, I think we can do whatever we want, we don't have to. I think as far as we're concerned, the smartest thing to do is to resolve this Solomonesely, to say yes, this Interresor Working Group has done a lot of work, but because of the different political approaches, we can't agree. Because be careful, with all due respect, I cannot accept the arguments you offer in this Interresor group. Either let a new interresor group be chosen, or let it be so Solomonic that someone can do it to us, maybe ask the Office of the High Representative to make us a new law, because it's easier than we can make, because they'll obviously do it faster, so we have some kind of law or they'll say this one's good. Okay, we're not changing it and the office thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21373	Can I just take a minute?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21374	Wait a minute, wait a minute. Replica Živković, then the replica Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21375	I don't know whether to say a replica or an incorrect quote anymore, I simply need to say or explain the matter, and that colleagues and fellow MPs see how hard it was to work in this group. Namely, I did not, I disagree with what Mr Džaferović said was an interpretation of the Constitution in which it all comes down to doing or doing something in this Parliamentary Assembly. For a simple reason, you are all witnesses, in this Parliamentary Assembly we have changed Article 10 of our Rules of Procedure, where the international community has agreed: that the rights and duties of MPs – perhaps to read Article 10(3) where we have extended this – that the MP is accomplishing in the Parliamentary Assembly, in the domestic and international institutions in which he was elected as representative of the Parliamentary Assembly by communicating with the citizens, and then he gave, not to mention, you can read all of this, we have adopted this Rules of Procedure together here. We've changed this term. Am I an MP on a television show in this country, or am I just an MP in this home here? Are we disowning the qualities of MPs in any other situation besides being an MP here? Does Article 14 define here (2) the removal of the immunity of MPs where it is said: 'in every particular case the House decides, on the proposal of the Constitutional Commission', and 29 laws stipulate that this is done in courts? So here, the Rules of Procedure have been decided how it is done. We need to make procedures, but we take the laws that are imposed on us and agree that this is a good solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21376	Dear Representative Džaferović, a replica, a correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21377	I don't know if I heard you but, Mr. Chairman, I didn't say there were criminals in the institutions. So I think one part of your intervention or discussion could be understood and so understand, is that, that's what I said. That's not what I said. I'm just trying to show what kind of debate we're going to be in, maybe, if we come in and we have like Parliament a case like this or some kind of case that's from this sphere. I advise, we are not Bundestag and we are not governed by procedures and standards, and there is still no proper relationship built on that. In the Bundestag, it can't happen to protect someone with an immunity that doesn't belong to it. I'm afraid this situation doesn't happen with us. And that's all I'm saying. When we build ourselves – You have the right to your opinion, I respect your opinion, I do not agree with it, of course, I have an opinion – when we come to such a situation in all other sectors, in everything, then it will be easy for us to compare these things when it comes to immunity.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21378	Thank you. Dear Representative Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21379	I really need to replicate. Here's the last line from my colleague Džaferović, but a lot before. So, before I say anything about his earlier first replica, do I have to say we'll never get to the Bundestag level with the kind of thinking about the Immunity Act Mr. Džaferović has. I say it responsibly, never! Because in his argument, he said that the only way, the only way, is the one he thinks. We can't be so exclusive. You see, I'm talking about immunity and I worked in the Interresor Group where, here, I see from this home, the other two members think quite the opposite of him, and he claims that his only path is correct about the Immunity Act. I can't accept that. Look at the stenogram, please, Šefik, wherever you look, don't always say I didn't always say you did. Now I'm going to say something about this report. I can tell you that in these years, has, and something since this Interresor Working Group has been doing, that she's done a lot of work. I think a law like this needs BiH and I think you should let it in the process, let it be seen. And I really thank Mr. Šefik Džaferović for all the compliments, any doubts he raised towards other colleagues, including me and all of us here. So he says 30 -- we know what the situation is with us in Parliament. So he's afraid someone's gonna protect the criminals here. So we can go home right now if someone here is going to protect criminals, or if most of them are going to protect criminals, or if the entity majority or two-thirds are going to protect criminals. Then we really don't have anything to do, and that supports my claim from the beginning that we'll never get to Bundestag if we express our doubts. If there is a reasonable doubt that he has committed a crime and that he will not be deprived of immunity at the Constitutional House, or the House of Peoples, then we really have nothing to do here. I would just like to say that we have a practice in the neighborhood where we have a similar law about what it is in these three proposals, in these three working versions, and it is not a rare phenomenon in our neighbouring parliaments to take away the immunity and then go to courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21380	I thank the esteemed representative Zorić. The following was reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21381	So, I think that one day we will have high-quality parliamentarians and parliamentarians like those in the Bundestag. But for now, it's still not like that. The country is in transition. We know how many members of the Bureau have so far been subject to judicial investigations, some of them are on the run, so nearly half of the people sitting in our presidency had a problem with the court. We also know that, here, for four or five years, we can't pass a pardon law because it was misused. I hope it will be better, and I am not so that we have any less rights than European Parliamentarians do. I think we need to raise our rights to that level right now. But I don't think we should go over it. Practice in European countries, in European parliaments, is diverse. But it's closer to what the chairman Živković is talking about than what Mr. Lozančić is saying. So, in England there's no immunity at all, we have it actually just for the word. In Germany, only the Lower House has it, and the Upper House has no immunity. And here's the proposal made by our Department of Justice predicts that the moment you're elected to terminate the trial for you. Whatever you've done before, you've been amnesty for four years from the trial that started! I don't think that's how it works. So we have the recommendations of GRECO. We cannot rely too much on European practice, because it is diverse. We can't rewrite it. But here are the recommendations of GRECO, why don't we listen to it? Well, one day we'll have to listen to things like that. What we wouldn't do in advance, here's what we don't have to do right now, but let's put things in advance the way people ask us to. That is what the Council of Europe Resolution will require, which will be here next week, in seven days ahead of us. She's asking that you listen to the recommendations of GRECO. In this sense, the SDA will propose this one conclusion, which reads: 31 - An Interresor Working Group is required to draw up a proposal for a law on amendments to the Immunity Act, in line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe – the Group of States to fight corruption (GRECO). Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21382	Dear First Vice-President Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21383	Anyway, I think this debate was useful, no matter how anyone experienced it, but we did hear different opinions that might be useful for further work. So in one, the Interresor group must have agreed. So here she agreed to submit this Temporary Work Report and to request guidance from this home. And people unanimously, so the Interresor group asked us to say what kind of immunity to work, what size and procedure, etc. So three questions have been asked to this House of Representatives, saying that without these guidelines I cannot continue to work. Obviously, this debate doesn't give hope that we're very precise, so to speak, we're going to give these guidelines and say, here, people, you're working in this direction. Well, it seems to me that, on the other hand, it would be very harmful to lose what has been put into work so far and not let this end. And I'm closest, here, there's an initiative from the SDA, there's probably gonna be some other initiatives, but I'm closest to the Interresor Group not having to do this by consensus. She doesn't have to make this consensus. Let it go to a variant where it's overcome by some kind of a majority of thinking. And then we'll go through the procedure, so then, we'll come here to the House of Representatives and see if he has any support or no support, or maybe he needs to do something with the amendments. So it's very difficult to reach a full consensus. And that is why I propose that instead of these guidelines, in the precise sense of the words that are impossible to give at this time, we recommend to the Interresor Group that the law be the result of the prevailing approach, or the concept of most members, of the significant majority of the members of the Interresor Working Group. Because I don't see how otherwise, except to declare this project a failure and that all this effort practically goes down the water and then we're looking for some solutions, what Niko mentioned, that someone is making or giving us the Justice Department, the Council of Ministers, etc., which would be very harmful. Here, these are my thoughts.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21384	I would like to thank the first deputy president, the esteemed Beriz Belkić. The esteemed successor Slavko Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21385	Well, I don't know, this is a replica to Mr. Izetbegović, not to his exposure. Not European principles, European principles. So we know what European principles are like. Well, here, you're a parliamentarian in the EU. Well, does the same rights have Malta and Luxembourg or Great Britain and Germany? I don't know, here's what you're gonna tell me. 45 MPs from Bundestag, and three from Malta! Don't talk about 32 equality. There's always some equality, no one's listening, Mr. Izetbegović. So we bring this to ourselves to defend thieves. I attack them the most. But believe it or not, I'm ashamed when no one calls me by name or nickname anymore, but only an ambassador, because he needs me, Ambassador. So am I an apostle in the Palace, am I an apostle in Modrica, am I an apostle in Travnik, and not in Parliament? Everyone's asking for something, give it to the MP. He knows I'm like a function. But if hypothetically you suspect that someone will abuse something, so you do, so you have one law and a Rules of Procedure and, I don't know, that they can predict everything. No one can write that. This is a democratic parliament, so look around. In the Serbian Parliament, they killed themselves, they got stuck here, the sticks are fighting. So this is a democratic parliament, I'm proud of what we have tolerance, we don't understand each other, we don't agree, we won't accept, it's all normal. So please stop European practice if possible, please, and with Bundestag. The BiH Parliament, and that's it. What do we do next for the people when there's nothing we can do for ourselves? Here, we're not protecting ourselves. And now the citizens have to say -- well done, MPs, here's what you did today. And we're fighting over our immunity. No one needs it, why.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21386	Thank you very much for representing Jovičić. Dear Representative Izetbegović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21387	I don't know, I don't know what "don't" means. Don't what? I suggested we support GRECO. Well, don't, don't back him up, say, we won't make the law according to GRECO's recommendations. Well, back off, say no.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-29-0.u21388	There are no more applications for discussion. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We're going to point nine, Ad. Nine. Declaration on good administration – applicant: Constitutional Commission The Constitutional Commission proposed this declaration to discuss the Annual Report on the progress of monitoring the implementation of Action Plan 1 of the Public Administration Reform Strategy in BiH. You've received a proposal for a declaration. I'm opening a debate. I don't have any log-ins. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: 33 Ad. Ten. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework for the Initiative for Prevention and preparedness for disaster in South-Eastern Europe, (b) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Hungary on Social Security and Social Security, (c) Administrative Agreement implementing the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Hungary on Social Security and Social Security, (d) Protocol of the Catagena Protocol on Biosecurity with the UN Convention on Biological Diversity.
