ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1975	Dear guests, let's get ready to begin. Here, ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers, respected media representatives, I welcome you all and open the 17th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Today's session is attended by 13 delegates, three from the Bosniak people, five from the Croatian people and five from the Serb people. Mr. Tihić and Neimarli justified their absence, since they were justly prevented from attending today's session. The College of the House of Peoples, made by me and Mr Filipović, agreed on the agenda. I'll read it now. 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. The adoption of the 16th session of the House of Nations; 3. Proposal for a framework law on the protection and rescue of people and material goods from natural or other accidents in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 4. Proposal for a law on agriculture, nutrition and rural development of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 6. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 8. Security information in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2007; 9. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2007; 10. Report on the work of the BiH Ombudsman for the period from 1.1. to 31.12.2007, 11. Report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina and on the work of the Commission for Data Protection for 2007; 12. Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals in 2007; 2 13. A report on the work and the Financial Report of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Post Office for the period from 1.1 to 31.12.2007, 14. Report on the work of the BiH Export Credit Agency Management Board; 15. Annual report by the Central Bank of BiH for 2007; 16. Financial Report from the Central Bank of BiH for 2007; 17. Consideration of the Programme of Measures for the application of the CEFTA Agreement; 18. Review of the report on the work of the Committee of the People's House 2007: a) Commission on Finance and Budgets, (b) Constitutional Commissions, (c) Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, which regulates the activities of the European Investment Bank in BiH; 20. Giving consent to ratification of the Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Greece; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina, which represents the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH and Bank of Austria Credit Assessment AG - Project for the Reconstruction and Enlargement of the Water System in the Municipality of Posuje; 22. Giving consent to ratification of the Loan Treaty – Reorganisation of the electricity system reconstruction project between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty on Amend – amending and supplementing the Loan Treaty of 2.11.2000 with amendments from 5 December 2001 and 23 February 2004 – between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 24 February 2004 Giving consent to ratification of the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Environmental Issues; 25. Giving consent to ratification of the Faculty Protocol with the Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment; 26. Proposal for the conclusion of the delegations in the House of Peoples of the Paraliamentary Assembly discussed at the 8th joint session of the House of Peoples and the Parliamentary House of Representatives in connection with the operations of the Public TV Service of BiH and the measures to overcome the situation established by the audit reports on the financial operations of the Public TV Service of BiH for 2005 and 2006. This is the agenda that Mr Filipović and I agreed on. And, I must say, we haven't held an official session of the College that we've been working on. After that, at the suggestion of the president of the Bosniak Club in the House of Nations, a debate on the 26th agenda opened. It turns out that there is among us Mr. Tihić that he would be against this item of the agenda and that in that context it would not be harmonised, in accordance with the Dom Rules of Procedure, he would have to declare it. In that context, I insisted that we don't turn out to be doing anything past the House to declare the 26th point of the agenda, because I think it's in line with the business provisions. 3 I repeat, it does not have to be necessary because me and Mr Filipović put it on. But starting with the specific situation we're in, I thought the House should be declared on that agenda point, and here I am opening a dilemma over the 26th point of the agenda. Mr. Filipović, then Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1977	I welcome all those present who follow our work today. And here I feel the need to say very clearly, I remain on the proposed agenda that we have established, so Mr Ivanić and I. And I am not very clear on the reasons for the opposition to the agenda, because Mr Ivanić and I, as members of the College, have already made a decision. This was the 7.5th of this year and instructed and tasked the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications to the House of Peoples to consider and prepare proposals for conclusions, so MPs from the House of Peoples who had these proposals after a comprehensive debate was held at the joint session of both homes. Before we made such a decision, Mr Ivanic and I asked our committee to do so, we also talked to Koelgi of the House of Representatives, who was too much obliged to declare the conclusions of the House of Representatives' House at their meeting and the proposed conclusions of the House of Peoples to declare themselves to the House of Peoples. In order not to take the burden of responsibility of the selection as well as how to do so, it is agreed in agreement with colleagues from the House of Representatives: that the relevant committees should consider and the conclusions of the representatives from one home and another and that the debate at the House should be properly discussed, decide, accept or reject the conclusions of the representatives. So, I remain in this debate today at the session for the reasons why our commission, chaired by Mrs Alma Čolo, discussed this decision by the College of the House and did not engage in decisions whether or not to accept this and not to accept it, but, among other things, in view of the seriousness of the conclusions reached, as it states at the Commission's point of view: it was unable to make a selection, or exclude any of the proposals submitted, and it points to the House of People and proposes that any point of the conclusions submitted be made individually clear. That's a little wider, so the conclusion has three points. Whether to vote in a package or point by point, that's the home decision thing again. In addition to this, my clear stay on this established agenda, to discuss it today, I will be allowed, to propose and supplement the agenda, and I suggest that the proposal for a law on the Fiscal Council be included in the agenda today. Why would I suggest that? Because it's one bill of law that's very important to this country. Therefore, it is also supported by representatives of the international community who insisted on this text, because the first reading was done in the House of Representatives, there were no amendments in the second reading and will only join the decision at the next session in the House of Representatives, so there will be no amendment. We didn't have any... amendments to this bill and this would also be a second reading. And that is why, chairing Ivanić, I propose to include the Proposal for a Law on the Fiscal Council in today's agenda. That the point, to redefine a little order of points in this agenda, is that point 26 and this newly proposed point of the proposal of the Fiscal Council Law 4 are placed under point 3 and under point 4 and the other points to be redefine... as it stands in the agenda. Therefore, after point 2 and the adoption of the minutes, point 26 and the newly proposed point as point 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1978	Can I get the exact name of this law from someone in the service? Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1979	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, in the name of the Party of Democratic Action Club, I suggest that item 26 of the proposed agenda be removed from today's session of the agenda and not discussed at today's session of our House of Peoples. Why am I suggesting this? Because I also believe that the inclusion of the 26th item of the agenda has been done counter-businessly. In fact, we all know that a plenary session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has been convened with the agenda at which the business of the Public TV Service of BiH has been discussed, as well as measures to overcome the situation of the established audit reports on the financial operations of the BiH Public TV Service for 2005 and 2006. We've scheduled that plenary session and held it with the intention of considering this matter and deciding on it. We had the opportunity as a House to consider this agenda point only at the House of Peoples but we did not, we respected the request of colleagues from the House of Representatives to consider this agenda point at the plenary session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. This session was concluded in a way that the discussion was concluded but we did not close that session and the Parliamentary Assembly, therefore both at home, it was left to declare at this session and on this agenda point the proposed conclusions of all colleagues, all colleagues who discussed whether these proposals came from the House of Representatives or those from the House of Peoples. In this way contrary to the Rules of Procedure, you want to remain... a plenary session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and to disable the vote on all these conclusions. Of course, the intensity was also the conclusion that all these conclusions, given that we worked all day and that perhaps we could not during the vote, then at the session, come to adequate conclusions that would successfully be adopted at both homes. In charge of the committees responsible for considering all the proposed conclusions and other homes, they were to reach those common acceptable and to declare them naturally in both homes. As a College, you have done the opposite of attitudes and intensities of the Parliamentary Assembly, or of the House, you have taken the right to say to yourself: "No, let the competent committee of the House of Nations consider only the conclusions which came from the order of the House of Peoples delegates, and thus you have prevented us all from deciding, discussing and making a position regarding the conclusions and coming from the House of Representatives. Why are you making it impossible for us to decide the conclusions of the House of Representatives? To make things worse, you know at that session, so about today's agenda, you know that the SDA had a unique attitude. We held our meetings and clubs at the House of Representatives and delegates in the House of Peoples, and there we had 5 suggestions of conclusions, which one man put on behalf of all of us. We did not find it congruent and it would be a little funny, is it degutant that now one of the colleagues from the House of Nations, in the order of the SDA, stands up and repeats the same thing again, so the same conclusions proposed by Mr Izetbegović. This is how you brought us here from the U.S.A. so we can't plead on SDA proposals. When setting the agenda for today's College, as if I'm looking for a word, I don't want to be rude, as if the opportunity was used, so you didn't invite me,...you didn't invite me to the session of the College where the agenda was to be established. Of course, I know that I am not a full member of the College, I know who has a membership in the College, I know who decides, but it was our one agreement gentlemen that because of the sickness and absence of Mr. Tihić, who is in this position and chair of the House of Peoples that you will call me as president or in my absence of someone else in front of the Bosniak People's Club to the meetings of the College, so we will simply be informed about all the information, and about the work of the College and the House of Peoples. This time, unfortunately, you missed it and after we got that agenda, and this morning, in a conversation with Secretary Mr. Vukoj, I insisted that you call me and I made comments, not just this one, and some others. For example, one of them was the Fiscal Council Act, which Mr Filipović now proposes to be placed on the agenda, and thus, you prevented us from making these remarks in time. Of course,... our conversations, you have called a session of the College again, half an hour before the beginning of this session of the House but have not respected the position of one entire club. Due to all this, the Bosniak People's Delegations Club requires that item 26. be removed from the agenda and in normal procedure in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to conclude and plead at the plenary session that should end in a way that we vote on this item of the agenda in the follow-up and the plenary session to be concluded in its regular procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1980	Thank you. Before I give Mrs. Čolo, I have to do the replica. Very honest. We put this item on the College's agenda as a probation point if the Commission declares itself, where we were all present. So I respected the extraordinary, like the one who co-ordinated those activities, the attitudes that were coming. It is true that we didn't have a formal session when we were establishing the agenda, but I came from the assumption that it was already once and that it wouldn't be conditional on this commission if we hadn't agreed. Later I realized that there was a fundamental discrepancy and I did what I would do and that there was an official session. I've opened up and I just think I've been extremely respectful, even past my point of view, because past my personal attitude, I voted for this point, but that's why I did what could have happened. And if Mr. Tihić were there, and we had a session, we would have on one side a position that requires that the agenda be placed on the other which requires that it be not placed and only someone who could have chaired it: to open the debate on the agenda and to declare the House in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That's what I did. So honestly, I don't accept that kind of criticism. I even think it's a more justified criticism of those who tell me that I've been a little over-relianced in this context. That's all I wanted to say, so let's be clear. Six Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1981	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1982	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1983	Here's how you want it, if it's a misstatement, it's not a problem. So in one thing, it's not exactly what you said. If Mr Tihić were present at this session of the College and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the amendments that we brought to the agenda at the end of last year, you, as a College, would not be able to put this item on the agenda. Namely, the College shall decide by consensus of the members present. It is true that the College may decide and work with two members unless the third member attends. These are the changes that concern... but then when two or three members are present, so when it's full, decisions are made in either case by consensus. So, if Mr. Tihić were present, this point would not have been identified as the item of the agenda at today's session of the Colleges.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1984	It's just, I'm sorry, because now I suggest you save it for a little while. And this would happen again! There'd be a debate at the House. And that's why I think I respected, just aware of that, respected the demands and opened the debate at the House. It's not an undeniable point. But here it is, Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1985	So, I'd like to do it in one tolerable tone and with respect for argument... we're not making a tape out of this. It is fully in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that the agenda is established, it is entirely in line with the moral way that the two of us have acted in relation to the situation in which the third member of the College was found, Mr Ivanić's proposal to declare the agenda legally established in accordance with the Rules of Procedure again. And let the House declare it. By supplementing the agenda with considering another legal act, I have also proposed redefining... agenda points and I would ask that the House also be declared. And I'd like to correct Mr. Rančić's false claim. It is not true that a plenary session must be called in order for it to be completed. In conclusion, if both colleges conclude both at home, they will adopt one home for their home and another home for their home. That's the end of the session. Without agreement now, any college of one or the other, there is no plenary session only because of that, if we have already said that in separate sessions. I would prefer that you honestly, so honestly and without any anger, publicly, here the media is following our work, you say - we do not like Mr Filipović's conclusion in point 3, we oppose it, we want the inequality of a constituent people, although we are full of mouths... and equality of all in this country, so that we know where we are. So there's the problem. It's not a problem in procedures. You're exhausting yourself on something where you have no arguments. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1986	Thank you very much. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1987	Thank you, Chairman. Looks like the story of the public TV service isn't over. I don't know why Mr Filipović is so excited. You successfully conducted this plenary session that lasted for hours and at which the discussion was comprehensive and complete. So, the debate did not specifically discuss members of the House of Peoples and not specifically discuss representatives from the House of Representatives, but rather the debate was complete. And all the conclusions proposed at that session are the result of this whole debate. And then you put us in a position, trust me as chairman of the Commission, with your memo, in a very delicate situation. Because when the session is over, you are so – I have watched the stenogram, the stenogram is not completely clear – you have concluded the debate that the commission of both homes will systematise the conclusions and propose to the home conclusions on the business of the Public TV Service. When I received your letter, a letter from the College of the Peoples, which you signed, and this letter was made by you and Mr Filipović, because we are disabled, because our president was sick and could not participate in making up that attitude, when I received that letter, I saw from him that the Commission that I chair should only sublime the conclusions of the House of Nations delegates. And here we were tasked with having only the conclusions of Mr. Ilija Filipović and one conclusion which is very controversial for us, which is the conclusion regarding the formation of a special Croatian channel. And that's why I'm telling you honestly, you know our position about it and that's not the point of yesterday, and that's not the attitude of today, and, uh, that's a very delicate conclusion, and I think we've been brought into the situation that we have to declare on the Commission only about its conclusions and only about the conclusions of another delegate who is from the order of the SDP of Mr Adem Ibrahimpašić, and we've been denied the statement of the conclusions of the SDA Club. And believe me, in conjecturing these conclusions, all the members of the U.S.A. participated, not only in the House of Representatives but I, as a delegate in this house, we sat together. And believe me, we now have not had the opportunity on the Commission to suggest these conclusions to the House that they be made known. And I'm telling you, we're really being denied the procedure here. On the aside that Mr. Ilija Filipović would like us to vote today on his conclusion and which yesterday... Mrs. Majkić publicly confirmed that they will vote for his conclusion, which means that we will be revoted here. For those of you who are not clear about what this is about, we can be put into a situation that here because of our president's lack of a member of the Bosniak People's Club, we don't have a member from the Bosniak People's Club, by revote you vote on the conclusion of forming a Croatian channel, so it's probably good for you, but it's an attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1988	Sir, Mr. Ivo Miro Jović, please... 8
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1989	It's probably good for you, but... we're in favour of the Law on the Public TV System that passed this Parliament and the Law on Public TV Service being implemented first, so let's talk about these things that, eventually, can come on the agenda later. And for this reason, I have found in this report that the College letter does not reflect the debate held at the plenary session, because all the conclusions should be in circulation, because the debate was unique and not smart – therefore, Mr Izetbegović made a proposal for conclusions – that I repeat these conclusions again as a parrot, so that I could consider later these conclusions... at the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Traffic and Communications and suggest that you make a statement about them. But you decide what you want, you decide that this point 26 goes into the agenda. We have our own mechanisms and, of course, we'll... we'll try to use our right to... not vote us in that case.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1990	Thank you very much. I guess that's the mechanisms... but about that, by that. I just want to say that after this intervention, which was present, the College proposed to the Bosniak People's Club that the conclusion – that the House of Peoples, in the context of it – was proposed on behalf of all and, what Mr Izetbegović proposed, to vote on it in our home as well. So it was our proposal, it wasn't accepted as a whole. Let's take it in a row. Is it a replica? What about the replica? Then Mr. Jović. And you have it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1991	Wrong quote. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1992	And before that, he answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1993	Before then, Mr. Rudo Vidović answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1994	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I welcome those present. I would like to put the wrong quote of my colleagues, Rančić, when it comes to the business way of making decisions in the College, because here with me in the Rules of Procedure I have amendments and additions in Articles 19 and 21 that say, so: If efforts in the College fail to reach consensus, the decisions shall be made by the House. In that sense, I absolutely support the College's decision to make today's Dom. Here, when I took my word, therefore this committee, the responsible Committee for Transport and Communications and Foreign Trade, which discussed the issue yesterday, so I am a member of that committee and the first Vice-President, I believe that it did what the College did, opened the 9th debate, discussed the proposals for conclusions concerning the House of Peoples and referred to the House to make a statement, therefore I do not think there is any reason why we should not make this clear today.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1995	Thank you very much. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Is it a discussion or a replica, Branko? Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1996	: I welcome Mr. President and Chairman, all my dear colleagues and distinguished guests. I don't know what I'd call what I'm supposed to say, and I feel extremely important to scream, not to speak. What have I heard here today from the esteemed emissary? I do not have the custom to address myself directly, and I will say, Čolo, I have been too loud here for 13 years, and you are the first time coming and you know what your sentence is, you will put us in danger of being overvoted to the question of the vital interest of man and my existence and my children in this country. It's beneath all the criteria of humanity, morality, character, anything. To ask me to be equal here with this side and this side! And you will be in danger of being overvoted. I highly congratulate you on your morale!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1997	Mr. Zrna, Mr. Zrna, then you, because the replica is the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1998	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, or all those present, I would ask you to lower our tensions, we don't have much to argue about, there's no need for that. First of all,... I just ask everyone, in this context is a replica, not to mix things, concepts and not to create articles and laws. This is not about any law, number one, number two, it is not about the Croatian channel, three - the third conclusion or the third point of this conclusion offered at the joint session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH: in essence, it was only the initiative of the Council of Ministers and nothing else. The initiative under the Council of Ministers is based, not on wish, not on will, not on assessment, assessment of freedom or... but solely on the legal provision, on the provisions of the Law on the Public TV System of BiH, and on the provisions of Article 9 and paragraph (2). And I ask you to stay with what's written in both the conclusion and what this conclusion is called for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u1999	Thank you very much. Mr Ibrahimpašić, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2000	Here, I'd just like to.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2001	It's the same replica, isn't it? 10
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2002	No, it's not, it's not a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2003	It's a discussion, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2004	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2005	But... is there a replica with you or is it a discussion? Discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2006	Well, here I'll just say that I remember that we voted on something else at that joint session, I don't remember exactly what it was about, and we voted on the same thing, especially the House of Representatives, especially the House of Peoples. I've counted that's how we vote both on, and on all the conclusions... but on everything, on both ours and theirs. That's why this is, this is me... And why should I? I am for it not to come. I want to tell you honestly, I live here with you, until such channels are formed. Before the war in the Assembly I was in the House of Representatives and I remember well then and I met two people, you will remember them, down in this... cafeteria, it was Šagolj Smiljko and Guzina. I didn't know them, I knew them from television, and then it started out in a joke, very nice, sweet, one was a Chetnik, the other was a Ustasha, so they talked to each other. That was the first time and sweet. Later on, it could be, like, a month, it was winter of '91. years,...interventions. That's what I'm afraid of, and I'm not going to be a part of it. It's my trauma and I ask you to respect it, no matter what.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2007	Thank you very much. Is it a replica? Second. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2008	: We raise a question that is not the subject of today's debate. And that's why I don't see any reason for this, but if I wanted to say it, so I'm only three nights ago, four, we've heard fine on federal television when it says that the fascists of HVO did it. Well, I haven't heard the opposite, sir, I've never heard of it. That's Federal TV! You have two channels, I don't have any. There's a basic problem. But it's not the subject of debate today, it's not the subject of debate at all. ...why for that, interesting for the injustice to be so advocated. I'm mad at that. Try to understand that this country has a future if I'm equal to you. Since I'm unequal, I don't want to open that debate, but let's talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2009	Thank you very much. Mr. Rajić. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2010	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have reason to show my disagreement with the way he tries from the Bosniak People's Club today to challenge the inclusion of this point in the agenda. So then very unskilled at first, and later very skillfully this thing is being revealed. Everything's in order to hide the essence. Essentially, this is what we've been talking about lately in these replicas. Bošnjak do not recognise Hrvat the right to legitimacy in this state that they recognise to themselves. It's the only real conclusion. And then you put it for formal reasons. But let's just leave it to the end, that's not the point. He's right, Mr. Jović. It is not on the agenda of the channel in Croatian, but on the agenda point of the joint session. Mrs. Čolo, whose expertise I don't doubt at all, said something but didn't fathom. I'm begging her to do it all the way. When we talk about the formal issue of inclusion or not, what is that, which is the uncertainty in the conclusion of a joint plenary session that would allow you to interpret that we should also vote on the conclusions tabled by MPs of the House of Representatives and they, vice versa, are representing the issues that we have raised here from the House of Peoples. When it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in line with the conclusion, as I recall, that the competent committees of each home will clear their conclusions, that the homes will make known their conclusions. So please be correct, explain what is so vague in the conclusions that you interpret as you do today in the conclusion of the joint session.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2011	Replica: Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2012	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2013	She wants a colleague before.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2014	Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2015	I've called before, but here's to answer what Mr. Božo Rajić asked. I do not know what conclusion he has before him in which he explicitly states that the commissions and each other's homes are in charge of considering the conclusions of only representatives from the House of Representatives, this commission led by Mr Dokić and this committee I lead to consider only the conclusions proposed by the delegates of the House of Peoples. I didn't read the House's conclusion from the plenary session, so I didn't read it from a joint plenary session. You, if you have, I ask professional services to share that conclusion with us. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2016	Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2017	I, Mrs. Čolo, did not call for a conclusion that ended a joint session. You did it and you said that conclusion was a little vague or confusing, etc. Well, since you know what that conclusion is, I ask you to publicly interpret it here. I'm not in, and I'm not taking it for myself. You said you knew the conclusion, that he was vague. Now, explain to us what this misunderstanding is so that we can interpret whatever you want, and we interpret it as we interpret it. I'm begging you here now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2018	Here I... just please copy from the stenogram, that's... one paragraph on one page. The secretary of the commission, here's a copy of the stenogram. Can you bring me just to read it? Because, in preparation, in preparation for the session, it meant a lot to me, to see which direction to lead the session and to consider this part of the agenda and in light of what the College of Two Members asked us to do. Here, Mr Ivanić concluded in the end. Please, I have no intention of reopening the debate, so it stands, we are done, we have a proposal from the College to agree with the presidents of the clubs, that after we had 28 MPs in the debate, two representatives of the Public Service, one representative... The Commission, 64 replicas of the competent committees at both homes. This means that the Commission led by Mr Dokić and the Commission led by Mrs Cholo to prepare for the meetings of the Houses' proposal for conclusions, and then you apologized for telling me that I was a gentleman, and that's that. Mr. Dokić and I, Mr. Dokić and I realized that we should sit together. Believe me, that's how he understood it, too, so we could sit together and put all the conclusions on the table because the debate is complete. Well, guys, it's not a separate debate. I don't really know, I've been dealing with law for 25 years, now someone's telling me that the debate is complete, I need to separate segments from them and I'm deciding on segments, and the debate is complete. Well, they were replicas. I replicated what the MPs from the House of Representatives said, they replicated on mine. Well, you really can't segment a debate like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2019	Rančić, Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2020	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2021	It's all, it's all replicas now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2022	13 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2023	Come on, 'cause this is it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2024	...you read the text, don't explain it to us. We've heard what it says: that every commission... of your home will consider the conclusions and propose to your home, and what you think is your business. You all read it, take it, I heard what it says there. That's why I insisted you read the text.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2025	Thank you very much. Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2026	Here, I'll start with this thing. In my debate on the agenda, I said that the College of Ours did the opposite intensities of the debate and the stories at the plenary session and about this part of the agenda. I said it. College did that thing that way. The second thing, you said that you... did a good gesture and a good will towards us and that you made a concession by letting us discuss the agenda point in a way that... determines or contests or complements the agenda. It's not a gesture of goodwill, it's a matter prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. Then, you said that plenary sessions could end at home sessions, which is not true. Then why is the plenary session called? And I remind you, every session, either plenary or home session, has its beginning and end. You as chairman know how to say I'm opening a session, and you know how to say I'm closing a session. You can't, it's against the Rules of Procedure to take the agenda from the plenary session and now put it on the agenda of the House of Peoples. If we decided as two homes to discuss this matter and end up at the plenary session, then the buyrum to do it there and finish it. Does that mean we're going to have another next session of the House of Peoples again, this or this similar point, etc. And finally, therefore, it is certainly and absolutely not against the equality of any people and its constitutionality. We are absolutely for equality and consistency. It is unquestionable to us, but we do not experience this equality and we do not feel that it is necessary to experience it and implement it in a way that we have Bosniak, Serbian and Croatian television, but that we believe that, on the basis of existing laws, we should have a public service with broadcasters on which both the constitutionality and equality of all three languages will be carried out. So it's unquestionable for us to ask this question, but we differ in this thing how to do these things.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2027	Thank you very much. I turned out to be the main problem of this debate, which I liked to lead and the session of that one, and here's this one. I have my own comment. I'll say it a little later, but, Mr. Filipović. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2028	Mladen man forgot he told me you'd get a word after Mr. Rančić. So, the College's decision, the two of us, to be informed, Mrs Alma, your commission to consider the conclusions of the House of Peoples MPs from the plenary session, was precisely based on what you read, which was the conclusion of Mr Ivanić, who modified the joint session: to prepare for the committees a unique position for deciding at the sessions of the homes. So, clearly speaking, there is no doubt in the interpretation that they will decide and that I'm just telling you that we're wasting time here on one thing that comes down only to the opposition of point 3 in my proposal for a conclusion. And we're wasting our time. First, it was established, it was placed on the agenda. That's no way... So, here it is now, the Dom can throw out, so redefine, because we offered it to the House, even though we had the right to do it ourselves. But please, look at the Rules of Procedure, you all have a Rules of Procedure ahead of you. The Rules of Procedure – deciding a joint session – so both homes decide separate homes as well. If that's indisputable, I ask you, here's a lawyer like me, so we can decide... on all the conclusions. Take it from the assumption that all the conclusions have been made, only these two, Mr Ibrahimpašić, and my conclusion. What would be fate... those two conclusions? The fate that will be decided, so what purpose these conclusions, those three clubs and the people present at the session. No difference in the final decision would be if we were in a joint session or what we decide separately. Well, that was also the reason to re-read, prepare unique views if possible, as far as possible, the translucency of the conclusions but the Committee didn't want to get involved in that, that... said, here, we propose it this way, but it left it to the House now. And now he's contesting even that. I won't answer again. So we're talking about the agenda, you're asking for something to be thrown out, I'm staying in order not to be kicked out, but... to stay the way I suggested a redefined order.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2029	Mr. Rudo Vidović. I know you asked for a break before the vote, and I have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2030	I give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2031	You're giving up. Any other interested in the debate? There isn't? At the club's request, Ibrahimpašić. I ask twice loudly.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2032	I said, attending this last session together, we voted both us and the House of Representatives, and separately, and on the same thing. If what we adopt now goes to vote on this House of Representatives, there's no problem. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2033	According to the Rules of Procedure, I was warned in time that before a statement on the vote of the Bosniak People's Delegates Club requires a break, and what, 5 minutes or 30 minutes. How much do you have on the Rules of Procedure? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] All right, I'm taking a break up to 30 minutes. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2036	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, therefore, allow me first to apologize to you all for taking this break for a little while longer. The longer the break is not only for reasons that we have been sitting as a club, but... we together with colleagues from the College tried to find a solution for this item of the agenda and for this session today. So that's why, apart from what we talked about at our club session, we held talks with Mr Ivanić and Filipović in an effort to reach a solution. We asked for a break for the reasons why we asked as a Club to take the 26th item of the agenda off the agenda of today's session, today's session, and for the reasons, let me repeat it once again, is that we believe that this is the opposite point of the agenda, that this had to be considered at the plenary session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, as is the order for each session, whether it was a session of the House, the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples or the plenary session of the Parliamentary Assembly, to begin and to end. As a solution, we offered... colleagues from the Serbian People's Club of Delegations and the Croatian People's Club of Delegates to try to reach an agreement on this very important and important and difficult issue at a high political level. Unfortunately, colleagues did not accept that. We also offered as another solution that this session today should be postponed for tomorrow in order to get extra time, we got a little extra time to try, did, to carry out further consultations on all these issues on today's agenda, but that thing was not accepted either. I would just like to inform you that at the time of the break, we have been informed that the Commission of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, the committee responsible for this issue, chaired by MP Dokić, MP Dokić, has considered this issue in a way that has considered all the proposed conclusions at the plenary session. So, I repeat, the committee of the House of Representatives took into account and considered all the proposed conclusions, whether they came from MPs from the House of Representatives, whether they came from delegates from the House of Peoples. This just shows that our remarks and our points to the procedural and essential things are such that 16 of this matter should have been done in a way that the committees in charge try to sublime all the proposed conclusions, and that they agree to the plenary session to return, and that we, in our homes, plead, in the way that these Rules of Procedures are intended. So, Parliament as a legislative authority is an important, serious thing in this country and the Bosniak People's Delegations Club wants to make a full contribution to the work of all institutions and we are building, so we will work and we have done so that we allow the functioning of the BiH state institutions and we will do so this time. So, we won't let ourselves be chased, driven out of this house, and we won't leave this session. But we're going to make our point on this and every question. So, I ask you to put our proposal on taking down this agenda item on the... vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2037	Thank you very much. Is there more or can we approach the plea? No, there's no need anymore, Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2038	Here's only one sentence if you can. So I support Mr. Rančić's proposal in the part where he says he supports the work of the institutions, precisely this conclusion is to call for a law adopted here in Parliament, in one home and published three years ago, and on the issue here, nothing has been done by the Council of Ministers. It is an invitation, so I think it's contradictory what my colleague Rančić is talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2039	Thank you very much. If it's gone, I'd suggest we stop now. I mean, we know about the results of the vote, but now we have two suggestions. In essence, one proposal is to take it down, I'll put it on a statement that today is not at all debated on this agenda point and the second proposal is to make it part of the agenda but points 3 and 4. Is that understood? /Together, Ivanić and Filipović talk/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2040	You'll do it again. It's just the last one I didn't...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2041	So, Mr Filipović's proposal to take point 26 of the proposal for the conclusion of the delegations in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH discussed at the 8th joint session of the House of Peoples and the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives in connection with the operations of the Public TV Service of BiH and the measures to overcome the situation established by the audit reports on the financial operations of the BiH Public TV Service for 2005 and 2006 will be point 3. And to add, as point 4, the law: The proposal for a law on the Fiscal Council of BiH (second reading), with an explanation, I was against it because the predstavnički of dom did not do so, but Mr Filipović felt it was necessary to do so, so that the House would declare it, because there was no amendment, 17 because it did not have a House of Representatives. Just for these reasons, he hasn't spoken up yet. And that we can plead that because the Joint Commission has no amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2042	Is that point 4?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2043	That would then be point four, and then that would mean that point three would become point 5, point 4, become point 6 and move on. And we have one proposal from Mr Filipović and a whole other proposal. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? They have two points, two suggestions, yes: point 3 and point 4. We'll make a statement about one and the other, yes. We'll make a special statement about each other. Now I'm asking you, we can do it two ways, we can put Mr Filipović first, and if it's confirmed then there's no basis, and we can do it differently and my suggestion is that we go different. To vote first on the proposal not to be, and then in the second vote to be point 3. I suggest logically, I know it's proposed in order, but Mr. Rančić also made an observation that he wanted to put his remarks first and put it through the College indirectly. Well, he won't mind if I decide first to vote on this proposal by Mr. Rančić, and then Mr. Filipović, because I think we all know how it's going to end, but here we are... doing it. Can we do that? Then prepare to vote. First, then, we declare the proposal of the Bosniak People's Club of Delegates not to discuss this point and that it is not on the agenda. Prepare to vote! You can vote. So, if whoever votes yes, votes to get off, who votes against, votes to stay, that's to make it simple. If I understand this correctly... someone here has been restrained, nine... _________(?) 18 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2047	I understand that there are two proposals in Mr Filipović's proposal, so the first proposal is to place point 26 in item number three, and the second is to add... a new item of the agenda. So that's two sub-proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2048	We'll talk about two.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2049	And that's how you vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2050	In particular, I first put the proposal for a conclusion to point 3. So that point defined in agenda 26, that I don't read it again for the third time, it was..., be point 3. Prepare to vote! You can vote. The result of the vote is 10 "for", three "against" with a sufficient entity majority, which means it is listed as point 3. The next proposal we declare is the proposal to include as point 4. the proposal for a law on the Fiscal Council of BiH (second reading). Prepare to vote. 19 You Can Vote! 11 votes "for", one "against", one "abstained"; a sufficient entity majority. This is listed as item 4 of the agenda. Moving to point one, that's ad. 1 Answer to Legislative Issues and Legislative Questions The answers were received by Dušanka Majkić, Zoran Koprivica, Mr Tihić, Ivo Miro Jović and Mr Adem Ibrahimpašić at different sessions. Are delegates satisfied with the answer? First Mrs. Majkić. Satisfied? Thank you. Mr. Koprivica, pleased? Thank you. Mr. Tihić is not here to plead. Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2052	I'm terrified.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2053	Terrified? Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2054	- Yeah. Since 1966, it's the first 42 years, there's this problem. In this country, it is orchestrated to speak of a thousand years of its statehood, and the country road goes through the Crown and Cemetery Church of St. Nicholas, through the bones of kings that should be the foundation of this land. The village road also received funds in 2003 from the Federation government of 90 thousand and last year in the amount of 50,000, but both the Committee for the Protection of Monumental Heritage and the Ministry of Culture, so I believe the Government, because if... The ministry also says that they have sent and issued a tender, determined who will build it, but have not come to an understanding, as it says here, nor shown any good will to solve this problem. And the problem is, I'll repeat, which also means the Crown and krunidben Church is going the village way. Not the citizens of the three settlements have shown no understanding to solve this problem and want to stay on the road, to close our history, and the gentleman who answers this question says that the tombstones have been moved from their beds for a few years and the only reason is for the cargo trucks, as it says here, that are diluting their passage and damaging the barbaric further this place. I wonder, if we wait for this for 40 years, and we keep saying that some new road is going to break down a monument, if it's 5 km away and it's not going through a church, as a mark of spirituality, and it's not going through the grave of one country's end, and on the other hand, we have a post-war construction of sacral objects that follow the frameworks of the maltene confrontation of the restoration of war among the nations in these areas, for some building of a sacral object. And what should be and should be our nucleus, our beginning, our beginning of this country's life to think about that perhaps the day of coronation of the king of this country will be and included in... the holidays of this country. Let us say that the street in the city of a king of a land, on which she rests, gets a street, but there is no street, and his bones are scattered, and no one cares about it, nor wants to do anything, and the reason is clear, because it is a church. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2055	Thank you. I don't think so. We heard the delegate's statement. Now I'll call, now it's time and Mr Ibrahimpašić has won. Are you satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2056	I didn't. First, I got it after five months but it's not as important as it is, I have to read this, I have to comment on this. So, the correct quote is from the asked question, etc. And now he says, he asks,... I don't know, is it necessary to protect domestic production with higher tax rates to tax the excise duty of tobacco processing imported into BiH as the neighbouring Republic of Croatia does?, which certainly represents the political will of the BiH authorities, and therefore, the Directorate for indirect taxation is unable to provide an answer. That's not what I asked them. I asked the authorities. Turns out there's no political will in the Council of Ministers and Parliament that we change it, that our industry doesn't rob, there we go! Well, let it get into the record, I guess somebody's gonna read it someday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2057	Thank you, Mr. Ibrahimpašić. Mr. Šaraba has left us with a statement on whether he is satisfied with the answer from last session, so I ask him to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2058	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2059	Satisfied?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2060	Yeah, happy.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2061	Thank you very much. So we've exhausted this part that refers to the answers that have been delivered. Any new delegate questions? Ma'am, how do we do, shall we go as we say? All right, we'll go as they say. Mrs. Majkić, Mr. Zrno, then Mr. Vidović, then Šaraba, then Ljubičić. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2062	Well, I think the two ladies in this house would probably have the advantage, even if we weren't, if we weren't first. [[Common discussion]] So I refer this question to the Directorate for European Integration. It is known that..., i.e. the harmonisation of legislation with its provisions is the most complex and long-term work in the overall process of European integration in which almost all the institutions of a country participate. A special role in the process of harmonising BiH's legal system with the provisions of communal law belongs to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. In order to achieve the most optimal results, I think it is necessary to achieve a high degree of coordination through continued co-operation between the relevant parliamentary committees and the European Integration Directorate. So, my question is: - What has been done so far to create mechanisms and procedures for establishing co-ordination of permanent co-operation between the relevant parliamentary committees of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the Directorate for European Integration, related to the harmonisation of BiH's legislation with...? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2064	Thank you. I ask this question in writing to be delivered to me on the prescribed form. Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2065	I, Mr. Chairman, have handed over my passport the other day to get a home visa. For the second time in this short time when I calculated that I would probably have more domestic visas in it than Belgian, for example. or Swiss, etc. Because it is truly amazing that our six-month visa is being entered into our home diplomatic passports. That's what I was going to ask. So I ask the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through the Council of Ministers: - Why is visas being entered into the diplomatic passport for six months? Is it a regulation, a decision, a legal provision or an accepted practice by the MIP? Does the procedure apply to all official passports or to some? This practice makes it difficult and sometimes, indeed, makes it impossible for other countries to obtain visas for a period of six months. It is illogical and, at the very least, inappropriate in this way to demean both the official document and the holder of the document. Just an example of working, please, I've received a visa in three days' time in England for six months. In the last term of office for three 22 days of stay in Switzerland, we received all visas for eight months. As far as I know, and will confirm this passports from last term, the Ministry was issuing, or entering our visas for a year. We haven't had any objections, and I think this is really inappropriate, especially after what Mrs. Dušanka just told me. So, I can't understand the practice, whether diplomatic passports are the same or not, but it seems that the holders of diplomatic passports are not the same. Well, let me at that segment, at least explain, at least six months later, get my visa back. Or we'll start solving this problem in some other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2066	Thank you very much. Mr. Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2067	I refer my parliamentary question to the Council of Ministers, or the Directorate for European Integration of BiH. In fact, it is well known that a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU will soon be signed, and that from that moment on more intensive activities will begin to meet the conditions under which a candidate country joins the EU and, among other things, relates to the obligation to take over the entire acquis of the EU. Also known are the experiences of countries already having candidate status and visiting our Joint Committee on European Integration, the other day, the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia confirms this, which say that the elements of the EU acquis, divided into dozens of chapters, are viewed through primary legislation, founding contracts, secondary legislation, regulations, directives, decisions, sources, other sources of law, other acts of resolution, etc. In order for all these jobs to be done within the scheduled deadlines, experience suggests that it is necessary to engage a large number of experts who know European legislation and who are educated in the EU. In that sense, I ask the BiH Council of Ministers: - Are there any funds for this need planned for the education of our staff in the EU and have money for their scholarship been provided? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2068	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2069	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I refer my question to the Office of the High Representative in accordance with Rule 144(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. This is a question that I have referred to this institution before and it concerns the removed persons who have been replaced by the decisions of the High Representative in the earlier period. 23 - What does the High Representative in BiH intend to do about the removed persons, since these persons have been deprived of fundamental human and civil rights for more than five years, such as the right to work? BiH will soon sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU and thus start negotiations for its full inclusion in the Union. Unfortunately, more than 150 people live in such BiH whose decisions by the High Representative, from earlier times to 2004, have denied basic human and civil rights. Many of them have been brought into an extremely difficult social and life situation, and I believe and suggest that the High Representative and the Office of the High Representative, in the coming period, should be audited all such decisions, abolished unfairly imposed decisions in all cases where the responsibility of those persons is not determined. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2070	And the question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2071	The question was addressed to the Office of the High Representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2072	The Office of the High Representative?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2073	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2074	It'll be interesting to see how he reacts, but fine. Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2075	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests and others present, at the last session of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, we had a shorter one – but I will also say my own personal impression, and that is also an assessment, because I think, and others present on that commission – a good presentation by the Director of the Directorate for Economic Planning, Mrs. Ljerka Marić and Deputy Director of Ms. Azemina Vuković. After that presentation, the assessment is that in the coming time the role of this directorate will be very important. ...after signing this agreement, that's the assessment. In part of her presentation, Mrs. Ljerka spoke little, truth, of the fulfillment of this directive and of the staff in this directorate. My question is addressed and I refer it to the Council of Ministers: - What is the national structure of employees in the Directorate for Economic Planning? Specially show the national structure of managers at the level of the Directorate, at sector level, at the level of the department and in particular other employees. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2076	Thank you very much. Any more questions? No more. Before I conclude the point, I ask everyone to deliver questions in writing so that we can forward them further. I'm finishing point one. We're going to point two, that's ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 16th session You've got the record. I ask if there are any interested in the debate? There isn't. Then we'll make a statement. Prepare to vote! You can vote. I find the record has received 13 votes "for", unanimously adopted. We move to the 3rd agenda, which is: Ad. 3. Proposal for delegations to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina discussed at the 8th joint session of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives in connection with the operations of the Public TV Service of BiH and measures to overcome the situation of established audit reports on the financial operations of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Public TV Service for 2005 and 2006.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2080	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, since the agenda you voted on was open, this is how you did, against the Rules of Procedure, let me repeat again, through the debate, that this point could not have been held by the Rules of Procedure, today's session of the House of Peoples, because, in accordance with the Rules of Procedures and the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, this should have been decided in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at the plenary session. We called a plenary session, you as chairman, we had the agenda point there, we held the debate, we concluded the debate, and then we said that the competent committees for communication and each other at home, so both at home, try to unite all these proposed conclusions, in order to synchronise, yes, there are acceptable conclusions that both the predstavnički and the House of Peoples would have made. You decided at the College, contrary to that intensities, in contrast to the views and intensities of the debate at the plenary session, and also... regarding the debates of delegates from our home, and then you gave our commission, the competent commission, which, of course, failed to reach united conclusions in that way, by illegally disabling them from considering overall all the conclusions proposed at that plenary session. And so, yes, you made it impossible to possibly vote on SDA's proposals which... had its position and suggestion of its conclusions... at the plenary session. So, colleagues from the House of Representatives were all over this on the committee, and here, unfortunately, that's not the case, that's not the case with us. In view of all this, and bearing in mind the conclusions that are offered to plead with them, Mr. Ilija Filipović, who is proposed in a way, I will read - that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH commit - therefore - obliges the Council of Ministers to immediately initiate the procedure for the establishment of a new TV channel in the Croatian language within the public TV system of BiH, based on the provisions laid down in Article 9(2) of the Law on the Public Television System of BiH, and based on Article 161. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, as well as Article IV paragraph 2 (e) and (f) of the Constitution of BiH. The Bosniak People's Delegates Club, this issue, this item of the agenda and this conclusion, thus declaring this conclusion destructive, harmful to the vital national interest of the Bosniak people. We made that decision at the session of our Bosniak People's Delegates Club held in this break that we were looking for before... the vote on the agenda. So point 3. The conclusion 02-50-011617/08 has been declared harmful by the Bosniak people's vital national interest, unanimously with three delegates' votes. The Bosniak People's Delegates Club is declaring the issue of the Public TV Service in the system and its functioning from the vital national interest of the Bosniak people. We believe that the unique RTV system and service in accordance with existing laws, which are in force, should ensure the consistency, equality of the people, the language, the letters, which are constitutive, is in BiH, but certainly also the interests of minority peoples as well as everyone, as well as all BiH citizens. Point 3 of the proposed law does not provide, does not provide these things. We believe that it goes in the opposite direction, because this point is proposed, only a single language channel is proposed for one people. So, if colleagues were correct, as they say, I don't doubt it, but they probably did, and if someone were going in this direction, then at least it would be correct for someone to say I demand one, the other, the third, to say it openly, but we can't support this thing, because we think that Public TV service, as foreseen by the laws 26 adopted by this assembly, should and can... ensure the equality and consistency of all of these that I've just counted. In view of this view, the Club of the Bosniak People's Delegations, and others -- you see, the other club treats this issue in a way that this is a matter of national vital interest to them, not only at this session, in some previous, some of the other activities they have undertaken – we demand that, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, you carry out an appropriate procedure regarding our decision to declare this issue vital national interest, or harmful to the vital national interest of the Bosniak people.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2081	Okay, you, you put, if I understand correctly, only on the third conclusion, which means we will plead as Home on the first two conclusions procedurally and on Mr Ibrahimpašić's conclusions... When it comes to the agenda, I'll say, I'll open the debate and I've opened the debate, but just to make it clear to us what it's put on. So, not at all, but only at point 3 of Mr Filipović's conclusions. Right? Am I accurate?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2082	So, you are narrowly right in that part but our attitude...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2083	We'll certainly vote point-by-point.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2084	...that this question, by the way, and we don't support those things.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2085	So, you think. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2086	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2087	All right, we'll make a deal. Okay. Mrs. Čolo. I want to clarify what the interest is put on because it's very clearly precise, so I ask that if there's something unclear, please explain it to the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2088	I've had one intervention, please. The initial conclusion from which the Commission did not come out – means I, as the chairman of the Commission, had the conclusions proposed by Mr Ilija Filipović at the House – that conclusion literally read to you from this report by the Commission (not the House of Nations...): The Parliamentary Assembly undertakes the Council of Ministers.... We have today the conclusion that Mr. Ilija Filipović has made and which is not in the agenda: that the House of People is bound by the Council of Ministers, which is not the same. The Parliamentary Assembly and the House of Peoples are not the same. It's two separate categories. The House of Peoples is an integral part of the Parliamentary Assembly and, 27 please, we can plead today, because it is on the agenda, only on the conclusion proposed at the plenary session and which is in our report from the Commission and which is literally: that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH undertakes the Council of Ministers. And you know who can make the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly. It means both home and home.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2089	Thank you very much. The word was requested by Mr Filipović, so Mrs. Majkić. Are there any more interested? Mr. Rajić. We're not yet pleading on vital interest, I'll do it specifically, that, that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2090	I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues and all those present who are monitoring today's work at the House of Peoples, who here started working at 2 p.m. and at the third point, here it is now at 17.15 p.m. The reason is, and we're sorry, is exactly the point we're discussing right now. All that I'm going to say is the name of all five members of the Croatian People's Club in the House of Nations because we expected this situation to happen. This item of the agenda is included in accordance with the powers of the College of the House of Peoples in the agenda. We've respected the conclusion of the plenary session of both homes, and I don't have it in front of me right now and I can't read it, but I think it's going to be an integral part of the overall documentation. As a result, a question of vital national interest has been raised which will end in the Constitutional Court and will be as one of the crucial evidence for my claim that the College of the House of Nations has not come out of the power of...... by the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, because this conclusion is a plenary session that the relevant committees consider the conclusions. It is not said both at home, so it does not say, but that the conclusions are made at home, which does not mean in the plenary session, but it certainly suggests separate sessions, and on this topic we have consulted specifically with the current chairman of the House of Representatives, Mr. Lozancic, who has in the same way: the final word of the plenary session when we discussed the Public TV Service and the Public TV System of BiH, which is why there was a inclusion in the agenda of this agenda. So our conclusion of the plenary session was based on the proposal for a conclusion that we decided on the proposal at home and that is why it is in the daily... okay. I asked today to redefine the agenda points just because a huge dose was seen, in my court, unwarranted satisfaction of the Bosniak People's Club included in the agenda and I was afraid, believe me, that as a 20th, last point, it would end without debate, because before that point, the Bosniak Club would leave the session, I am convinced. That's why I have proof: the current movement of questions of vital national interest! I now guarantee here, so I guarantee and claim that this conclusion, as Mr. Rančić called it, and point 3 is what is being invested in and declares the vital national interest of my unique conclusion that was proposed at the plenary session. And as it came to the conclusion of the chairman who concluded the session, with a proposal to discuss the conclusions at home, I am for today's session, knowing that today we are only discussing at the House of Peoples, redefine and say: The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, etc. which is quite logical that it cannot remain a conclusion in the original text, as it was proposed at the plenary session and therefore there was precision, therefore the preamble of the conclusion, so I called only on the conclusion of the House of Peoples, and 28 not on the Rules of Procedure and the House of People and the House of Representatives, and that was also specified in points 1, 2 and 3 of the proposed... conclusion. I also, so in name... The Club, a unanimous decision by the Croatian People's Club in the House of Nations, in accordance with Article 161(2) and Article 162, we dispute and do not, therefore as a Club, express our consent to the declared harmfulness of the vital national interest and, of course, Article 162 (1) we oppose this statement by the Bosniak Club for the following reasons: I do not now plead with the full evaluation of the statement of opposition, we will be able to do so within the deadline of five days and deliver it in a set together with the stenogram of this session... The Constitutional Court, if no agreement is reached after the agreement, as provided for in the Constitution, has been translated into the Rules of Procedure. I object, and I don't think that this is justified for one initiative, which is what this conclusion initiates to lead to the amendment and addition of the Law on the Public TV System. This cannot in itself imply harmfulness in the vital interests of a nation, for we still do not know how these changes that could possibly come before this home might look. Will they, as such, be harmful to one, the other, or the third nation? I must say that in Article 9(2) which simply woke me to propose this conclusion at the plenary session, he awakened me to revive the implementation of this... law in clause 9.2. Because provision 9.2. reads as follows: - The Council of Ministers of BiH has the right to launch a procedure for establishing a new TV channel within the system after consulting with the Regulatory Agency and the System Committee. The BiH Council of Ministers will consider initiatives following the production of an independent, transparent and comprehensive analysis covering the programme, a spectrum of technical, financial and other information justifying the draft of the new channel. My proposal concludes that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, therefore redefined, I read point 3 of the single conclusion submitted at the plenary session: The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges the Council of Ministers to immediately initiate the procedure for the establishment of a new TV channel in the Croatian language within the Public TV System of BiH, based on the provisions of Article 9(2) of the Law on the Public TV System of BiH, which I have just read to you. You see, in order to amend and supplement the legislation to be found in the parliamentary procedure, the Council of Ministers must adopt an initiative, the Council of Ministers must consult with the Regulatory Agency. The consultations with the Regulatory Agency are not binding on the Council of Ministers, we know that, but it is our authorized body for giving new frequencies and the Council of Ministers will certainly... carry out these consultations. It must be consulted, as it says here in this paragraph, with the Committee of the System and then the Council of Ministers will decide whether or not it will. And whether or not it will, only Bog knows! So, how will the powers of God affect the members of the Council of Ministers who will consider,... I... believe that this conclusion will come to the Council of Ministers, to consider, therefore, these are all elements that say that this is a very long way to some of the provisions for which one might say, in this case, the Bosniak Club, it is harmful to the vital national interests of the Bosniak people. I, with a ponsernation, reject that this is harmful because this can't be something that the Hrvat in this country thought, in terms of achieving fundamental human rights, which doesn't defend others, 29 dapac if it comes, so it can't right now, so some frequencies and some kind of forces become harmful in the heads of my dear colleagues and colleagues of Bošnjak, harmful to their own national interests, for God's sake, if we think we have what we don't defend to have others. Because if the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public TV System comes to Parliament, if the Council of Ministers, after their consultations they will likely have with some others, not only those listed in Article 9.2. then this will certainly mean a thorough change of the Public TV System, which means that it will also be touched by the Law on the Public TV Service of BiH, the Law on the Public TV Service of the Federation and the Law on the Public TV Service of the RS. This will mean, therefore, if this is the Council of Ministers that brings about changes and complements, then there will certainly be a channel or public broadcaster on official, official Croatian, second channel or public broadcaster in official Bosnian and third, it can be a different order and a different TV channel or broadcaster, so in the official Serbian language. And I reject the insinuation that there is something Filipović wanted only for his people. No, I don't. In an equal way, I encourage a dead norm to which, believe me, I must say that because it will end up there in the Constitutional Court in front of people who will discuss and assess and assess sober heads and assess whether both language and information is through this informing tradition, culture, each of the constituent peoples and citizens of this country's vital national interest that we advocate by introducing and the Croatian channel... within the public TV system. On the other elements of this statement's comments, the Croatian People's Club will be manifested when it receives a complete appeal... and a statement of the harmfulness of this initiative translated into this conclusion and in point 3,... of which we, of which we were to decide today. Here it is said, and I have therefore requested that I be read immediately, so the name of the Hrvat klub, as, as conclusion number 3 is unique, that is point 3. and this conclusion cannot be seen separately only in point 3. but should be taken into account and what that conclusion said in point 1 and point 2. to lead to point 3. because they are in very close contact. Point 1 and point 3. In that point one, the answer is in many ways to what we heard what he said, said... Mr. Rančić. I'd be done with this, too. I would leave room for us to hear the views of other MPs, which does not mean that the story of disputed harmfulness in the vital national interest of the Bosniak people is closed. I believe they'll have something to add to that and colleagues from the other two clubs. Thank you very much, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2091	Thank you very much. Be careful, before I go any further, from what Mr Filipović has now said, it means practically: if you enter into the procedure of vital national interest, so there is no solution acceptable, so that today we do not declare ourselves, I will talk about it later, but then that means, if that happens, that Mr Filipović believes that neither the conclusions 1st and 2nd make sense, and he would not speak of them on his own.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2092	Integratedly, I suggest them, that's 1, 2, and 3. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2093	Because we had a business plan to vote every point of the conclusion separately. But okay, I mean, I get that now. I want the others because there's a replica, and I've already got those reported for discussion. Business intervention, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2094	Please, the chairman,... to leave, as Mr. Ilija Filipović says, insinuation and to return to the agenda that you have adopted most of the votes here. This item of the agenda reads: Proposal for the conclusions of the House of Nations delegates discussed at the 8th joint session of the House of Nations... The proposal for a conclusion is set out in the Commission's Report. This proposal for a conclusion is not what Mr Filipović proposes but what is in the Commission's Report, which is that the Parliamentary Assembly: in point 1. Parliamentary Assembly, point 2. Parliamentary Assembly, paragraph 3. Parliamentary Assembly. I want to show you here that you are taking responsibility for the House of Peoples to decide on behalf of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and I ask you to think about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2095	Thank you very much. There will be an obvious opportunity to clarify everything further. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2096	So at such an important moment and such a serious topic, we should all say, so here I am, in the name of the delegates of the Serbian people, I want to say my position on this agenda point. So, to ignore all that, that is, to ignore those who have submitted these proposals to the conclusions, to come from it, only from what is the vital interest of the Serbian people. So, when I analyse these conclusions that came as a proposal from Mr Filipović, I really think that against the interest of the people, from which I come, it is not that, yes, we argue that unquestionably, for the legitimate and stable business of public broadcasters and strongly supports the true, unbiased, fair, timely informing of all developments in BiH. I don't see who could have anything against that conclusion. So, we from the Serb people have nothing on the subject. We stand for the same conclusion, if we wrote, we would have made it. The second conclusion, the Parliamentary Assembly understands that it is an essential condition for the equality of the peoples in relation and that it is one of the foundations of the survival of self-sustainability or, second, stability of the country. Is it not, then? It's unfortunate that, here, and today we see that the fight for the Public TV service is exclusively on the side of the Bosniak people who, in transfer terms through everything, here, have so far spoken delegates from that club, says - don't touch what is ours, because you say we want all the nations to be equally represented on that channel. You will, but it's not! Why didn't you do something in these years to make it happen? You heard at the plenary session, it's not in the interest of my people, and everything that's been done with that service so far has been... and against my people. I was, like, a fellow I was very patient when you were talking, please don't throw it away. So when I was a guest of that TV, I was discriminated against by my colleague who came from 31 Bosniak people. Don't tell me, maybe it's not clear to you, but I said it publicly, in the media I said it, don't discriminate against me. So it's clear to me why you're fighting so hard that the public service will remain just a service of the Bosniak people. And we won't let that happen. He is everything he could do – it was directed against the Serb people. We said it in public. A public service like this will never get our support. So, I am still talking about the suggestions of these conclusions of Mr Filipović: the process of establishing a new TV channel in Croatian. It would be unfair for them if we who come from the order of the Serb people – who has a RTV RS, for which we know what it means to us – would say and be so insensitive, as you teach us today, to say we will not support the request. So you have federal television, you have TV BiH, you have so many feelings that others have similar needs and you make at least so much reconciliation to this country, if you want to... take any step that we have any interest in living in that common country. Don't think that you're going to take the pretenses and take that all that BiH is about being Bošnjak, that you're going to make it... continue and allow a normal life in this country! You won't! Do not end up making a mistake made by Srbin in the former Yugoslavia and do not think that everything that is Bosnia is yours! So now I'm talking about these conclusions that came from Mr Ibrahimpašić. You'll never get support for this. Not because I won't support it, I'm saying it in argument why we won't support it. We won't because we won't implement the Law on Public TV Service, because the Republika Srpska TV is doing well, because we brought it to the branches so that it can... survive as it was made and because we won't bring in two losers... one service that works well and operates positively. So you'll never get that consent from us. Deplore the Council of Ministers to exclude 56 million from the budget over the next five years with the current management method, so with an audit report that has been the worst since the Parliamentary Assembly, do you think it's so silly in this country that it will vote that funds, public funds... are in a group of irresponsible people who hide how this service operates. And in the end, will you increase the tv tax to a minimum of 10 km? You won't, we won't increase. From 6 KM, we give 3 KM to the Public TV service, and 3 remain the TV Republika Srpska. Mr Ibrahimpašić, you can laugh but for every one of your realisations, which is written here, you need another number of hands, you cannot make such a decision by yourself, five Bošnjak, you need someone else. You don't have it, because you're not ready to make concessions to any other people. So, I'm looking at this, not like the conclusions that came from the order of the Croatian people at all, so they came, I'm only talking about them from the point of view of how much it is in the interest of the Serbian people. So, I think we will, too, support all the conclusions proposed by Mr Filipović and we will not support any proposed by Mr Ibrahimpašić for the reasons I have explained. And I think, and I think in the end, on one proposal to put up with this, to say that it's in conflict with the importance of interest, it's actually the right discovery of a picture of things. That's, you want to protect television, the other TV that's yours. It's clear to me, but I'm just calling you out to see if you've done a good job of estimating what consequences you're going to have afterwards on the basis of this when the answer is negative. So,... you will choose at all such an opportunity that we are businessly provided for,... absolutely everyone has the right to do so, but for such a decision, I think you should think carefully and, respected colleagues from the Bosniak Club, I advise you to do so. Thank you. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2097	Thank you very much. Mr. Rajić and Mrs. Čolo... I apologize, Mr. Rajić, the replica has priority over the discussion. [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2098	... first that one MP says he will not apply, will be against the law passed by this assembly. That, the Halal Faith, and that's the Law on Public TV Service! I said why I'm against this. It is your right not to vote for the law I have offered. It's my right to offer them, okay. It's your business, like it's my business to draw a national interest. I think I should take it, and don't get convinced and argue, there's nothing personal here. We're doing one job, and come on, people, let's end it like humans. Don't make it between you... evil blood! What's this? You think so, okay, so I didn't order you to adopt my conclusions, but that you will or won't. And okay. If it's gonna be 10, 6, 5, we'll see. I think it should be 10. But don't let us hate each other for it. It doesn't have to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2099	Thank you very much. We've made this part clear. Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2100	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ibrahimpašić is right when he says there is nothing personal here. I would ask you, Mr. Ibrahimpašić, I listened to you, be patient. So you're right, Mr. Ibrahimpašić, when you say there's nothing personal here. It would be wrong if it were personal. However, here, we are in one message. However public it may be, we are sent here as representatives of the people, absolutely as representatives of the people and nothing else. And we need to talk about the position of our people, respecting the position of the two other nations, because we are not alone and not Bog if we were alone. But we need to talk about what we're talking about today. Not to be born among us an unhealthy energy, or as people say evil blood, but to explain to the public why we are for something, or why we are not for something. Well, clearly, hundreds of politically naive people, more inexperienced than the rest of us sitting here, it's clear what the power of the media is. Having an influence, not to say political control over electronic media today, means having the political power to decide and what others cannot imagine. The role of the BiH media is unfortunately understood by ensuring in a certain way a major position and then trying to shape the public from this major position. And we've seen the power of the media these days. We have seen what an entrepreneurial group of people can do through the media and what the consequences can lead to. I'm not talking about the consequences right now in a harmful way, I'm talking about the effects, the effects. 33 Therefore, to me, the advocate, or delegate from the Bosniak Club, to hold a monopoly on TVBiH, or the Public TV Service, is completely politically clear, such as twice two. They have influence, they have supremacy in the media, and they don't want to share it at any cost with representatives of the other two nations. And that's quite clearly said today. Okay. And it's a legitimate political interest that can be defended. As moral as he is, as fair as he is, that's another question. So, all I'm saying is that I, as a representative of a people who are objectively in a vulnerable position in this country, is in a hundred and one way, it's quite clear why such a television or information space is needed in BiH. It is necessary to achieve the major position of the majority people. Secondly, if there is a land of phraseology anywhere in the world, then this is our unhappy and distressed country where words are most often spoken alongside some imported: tolerance, co-existence, respect for diversity. However, this does not go beyond the mere phrases, for tolerance would imply recognition of the right, tolerance means, originally translated into our own languages that we speak: populous suffering. It means putting up with, suffering the rights of the different to have what we have. This isn't where you show that feeling. Co-existence, too, means making an agreement or what they say... compromise, agreeing on the dynamics of life, on the flow of life, so no one gets hurt spiritually or physically. This is where it turned into a mere phrase. As was the phrase of brotherhood and unity, equality, so today we have phrases of co-existence, tolerance, diversity. Is there a greater cause and a greater moral and divine right than the right to differ in language?? As a people, we are deprived of this divine right to use the language of our mothers who have taught us, we are fed up, and we are offered an artificial language, a syncretism of linguistic and religious and moral, and we are not looking for anything else in these conclusions that Mr Filipović, the chairman, one of the co-chairs of the dom, proposed, but to exercise the same right. We have no idea that we are contesting the right of Bošnjak or Srbin to elect the same position at the Public TV Service. But unlike some Bosniak representatives who each time do a doctor and dose to Hrvat, which is good for them, we will not take that luxury for ourselves. It's not my place to tell the Bošnjak: it's good for you! You say what's good, so we'll sit at a joint table and figure out a way to make it happen. Because of this, Mr Ibrahimpašić, Mr Filipović did not say in his proposal: I ask that there is both a second and a third channel! He said he was seeking for his people and not contesting the same rights to another and third people. I think that's an honest and correct attitude. Furthermore, I think that the right to declare certain issues brought by this Parliament, that is, its House, is harmful to the national interest, the legitimate right of every club. But I think this will be written as the strangest and most controversial demand for the protection of vital national interest that is put before the Bošnjak klub today, because it means nothing more than the vital interest of declaring itself the protection of the major position and the suppression of others in BiH. We'll see, we'll wait for a decision from the Constitutional Court, but frankly, I'm not contesting the right of the Bošnjak to justify their request in this way, but for me it's in the translated meaning – let's keep it the way it is, and that means that 97% is influenced by us and the rest of you are happy. Furthermore, the attempt to withdraw, not only here but also in a whole series of political and constitutional issues, others in the category and to align with the sovereign constituent peoples, is ultimately politically questionable. I have nothing against the others. Let them be called as they think, as they feel, to declare themselves, to speak in whatever language they want, or to speak in 34 mixed languages, as they will, but it is known that in an orderly Europe the rights of national minorities, i.e. others, are solved in educational and informational space. They cannot share equal rights with constituent nations. And I think it is an attempt to introduce a completely different position in a position that does not belong either to the Constitution or to the tradition of Europe. So, I'm gonna finish that finding. We feel that we have the moral and national right to use our language both when we speak and when we pray to Bog and when we are informed and when we are educated. This right here in this country is persistently denying us. And we never will, I paraphrased Andrić the other day, and again I will paraphrasise him here, we will never give up the fight that we have the right to be Hrvat in our own language, in our identity. And we want both Bošnjak and Srbin and everyone else, in any way to feel, to have a completely free living space to express, express and experience themselves as they are. We do not need or have any interest in any rights that we reduce to our extent, but we do not allow anyone or ever allow our rights to be tailored to others. The public TV system, as it is, has received reviews and evaluations. The conclusions have not yet come to an end, and when everything is summed up, at the end of the story, we will see that rarely which institution in this country gets as many negative points as it gets. Probably because he's good! In the end, the last thought that is related to this elaborate. It is surprising that two lawyers from the Bosniak Club, our colleagues and friends, excellent lawyers, must remind me once again, challenge the right of a third colleague, Mr Filipović, to ask the BiH institution, the competent institution, to enforce the law passed in this House. Strange, but here, it's not the only miracle in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2101	Thank you very much. Ibrahimpašić has a replica. Don't add what you added.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2102	No, I really won't, I don't think this was malicious... when it came to phrases. I don't do that. What's my contribution? It's not huge enough... Wait a minute, you mentioned my name. So in Bihac in the municipality where I live is 7% of Hrvat. It's 27% in my company. I did it on purpose to let someone know it was his. It's not a phrase. And it's not much. And from me, if everyone did that, it would be a different picture. There are Srbin.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2103	Thank you very much. Next, is it a replica or, I wrote it down but... 35 [[Common discussion]] Thank you very much. ......... Please slowly. I was contacted by Mr. Rančić, Mr. Zrna and Mr. Koprivica. Is it a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2105	I want to replicate Mr. Rajić. He constantly complains that both FTV and BHRT are Bosniak and that on these TVs, no Croatian language is spoken. Here's the other night I was listening to a show and I heard from... commentators: developed warriors. Please tell me if it's Bosnian.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2106	Is it a replica? Replica: Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2107	This is the end of impudence. I've never heard this from a normal man before. I apologize, colleague. But what did you touch? I am a Hrvat who has his own literary language, who has his own lexis, phonetics, morphology. It's not history and thousands of Croatian languages. He has his structure. And I've asked the question today: my grandfather buried in High before 1371 in this country, he's going down the road. It's not talked about and there's no street in this town. And there's always talk of a thousand-year tradition of the Bosnian state. It's about ideological TV wanting to put in a few words, that's phraseology, not language. And you, see, I saw a show in Croatian the other day. Now, please don't see it once. I want to see her teach my kid on my language every day on that TV, if she's gonna be mine. And I have a registered discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2108	So you're reporting for the discussion, too. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2109	- Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2110	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2111	... interpretation, really. I did not say that I saw the show in Croatian, but said that I heard literally these words and asked Mr. Božo Rajić if it was Bosnian. Here, I didn't say it was Croatian. I ask if it's Bosnian and is it television in my language? 36
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2112	Thank you very much. Please let me... Come on, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2113	kolegica Čolo, it would be much better if you asked me: do I see it as a Croatian-language show? Don't be a judge to judge what's Croatian, which is Bosniak. I said that according to political philosophy, according to the national composition of the employees, from driver to editor, Bosniak television, and you can't deny it in front of anyone. Of the 970 employees, 82% is Bošnjak there. What am I talking about? Are we blind? If people don't do business, then what's business? Well, it's not a Bosniak building. That's not controversial, and 970 employees, of them 82% of Bošnjak there, and you're saying now -- that's not your television. Srbin have publicly said they do not consider it their own, Hrvat say it is not ours. Then whose is it? Someone said Zlatko was a Lagumdžija. I don't believe it's his. Don't make sure of anything. We don't need it in the '70s when the Central Committee reached conclusions on language tolerance in BiH. This formula of use of Hrvat language does not satisfy, you understand that once. We want the Croatian language in our fullness and that we determine it, that we value it, not you. Now, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2114	Thank you very much. I suggest we bring this part to an end. Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2115	Thank you very much. So, although in the armpits before that they had expressed fear and mistrust openly to us, they said that we would do this or that, so we did not do what was expected and that we cannot be expelled from Parliament. It's our right like all of you. So the same rights all the delegates and all the clubs... have. On the matter of acclaiming clubs of respected and respected other two peoples, I just want to say that the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure do not require the consent of other clubs, and, of course, everyone has the right to state their position and to manifest himself on anything, including our position on declaring this issue, but consent is not required. Then, on all these discussions I want to say and repeat, and you are witnesses, Mr Ivanić and Mr Filipović: we offered and prayed for compromises, offered several solutions, all and one turned down, smooth. All and one suggestion...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2116	Now I'm going to have a replica, but good. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2117	...compromising the solution you refused. You did not want us as colleagues to be respected in a way – let us come to a compromise solution. However, by your conduct and by your vote, you have not respected a single proposal that came before the Bosniak club. My colleague Majkić's assessment that she was discriminated against at the Public TV service is not correct because I was on the other side, so at the same time a guest. My colleague talked about it, and here's the second or third time she's repeated it publicly and in the House session. I want to say my point of view. So that's your point of view and I respect you, dear fellow Members, but I have an attitude on the matter, too. So that's not true. Take a look and analyze the show, and you will see that your first word is given to you, that you have more questions referred to, so she offered you a distinguished lady who ran the show. Now the second question is whether you had an answer to those questions, how high-quality answers they were, were you satisfied with your image, your make-up, your looks and those things, by voting at the end of the show, that's another thing. But Mrs. Stambol Suzana who ran that show offered you a chance, and first, before I did, that's fine. You're a respected colleague, a lady and I respect that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2118	There are three replicas already.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2119	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2120	The mention of TV and RS as one of the broadcasters in a way that you think it's just television of a nation is unfortunate, it's anti-constitutional and anti-Daytonic. If we respect the rules in BiH and the right to the constitutionality of every nation, all three constituent nations in the whole of BiH, to their equality, to the right of minorities, to the rights of every citizen who feels analytically, then that public service, the broadcaster, should be in the function of the constitutionality of all peoples, and not just one and no one has the right to do so in the way that it was done. So, the Bosniak Club is for the Public TV Service, for constitutionality, for the equality of everyone, as I said it, but not the way it was proposed. We're against it. We say that, we do not hide that we are against some kind of, God Bog, Bosniak television in Bosnian, Serbian television in Serbian and Croatian television in Croatian. But this does not mean that I am against, God Bog, Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat and I am neither against the language of Bosnian and Croatian and against Serbian and against constitutionality and equality. All these things I think and need to be provided through public TV and system and service. And finally, respected colleagues and colleagues, so let me repeat the thing that here's said and colleague Čolo. You, we voted against, have established a agenda item called the Opinion of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, discussed at the 8th joint session of the House of Peoples and of the Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and on the business of the Public TV Service of BiH and the measures to overcome the situation of the established audit reports on the financial operations of the BiH Public TV Service for 2005 and 2006. You voted for it. If you voted it out, and I was saying it was against the Rules of Procedure... Discussion, I've called for a discussion, I have the right to do so. The chairman gave me his word. I'm going next to the point that you adopted her. You, like Koelgij, respected and respected colleagues, adopted an act called and signed 38 Opinions from the 8th joint session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly held on 23 April 2008. And that's what you sent to the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Traffic and Communications to the House of Peoples. It reads: At its 14th session, held on 7 May 2008, the BiH House of Peoples College of the Parliamentary Assembly decided to assign the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications to the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to consider and prepare proposals for the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of BiH's proposals at the 8th joint session of both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. These are the conclusions proposed by the esteemed Mr Ibrahimpašić and the esteemed Mr Filipović regarding the review of the BiH Public TV Service's business and the measures to overcome the situation established by the audit reports and for a session of the People's House on Thursday, May 15th, starting at 1400 hours. In turn, we have two conclusions, two conclusions. The first was in three points of the esteemed Mr Filipović, protocold. Please, especially you, the chairman, pay attention and all the distinguished colleagues. Protocol adopted on 23 April 2008 under the heading 010250-1-18-88/08. That's the conclusion in three points under this number, the chairman, of which you have declared that you want to debate, to vote. That's the conclusion. In those conclusions, point 3 is said, and in points 1 and 2, but point 3. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly obliges the Council of Ministers. Can we, as the House of Nations, pledge the name of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Ministers? We can't, Chairman! We can't! I'm trying to point out once again that this is what you're doing, what you've done, it's counter-business. And you can't think of another matter! It was at the plenary session, that's what the distinguished colleagues suggested at the plenary session, and you can't think of another matter. The same conclusion was suggested – therefore, said my colleague Majkić – and Mr Ibrahimpašić, on the day of the plenary session, and you can only consider it. By no means can you consider or decide on the conclusion that the esteemed colleague Filipović wrote, composed and protocold on 15 May 2008, under number 02-50-1-... now I do not see this well, whether this is 16-17 or 1617/08. I don't see it very clearly. So you can't, and it's not on the agenda, the conclusion of counterpart Ilija Filipović, who says at point 3 that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is in charge of the Council of Ministers. This isn't on your agenda. Please, the Honorable Chairman and all other colleagues and colleagues, act in accordance with all the regulations, especially the Rules of Procedure, to respect him and to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2121	Can I have a replica? I've tried very hard to be correct today, but, please, don't give a lecture anymore. He didn't do anything to the chairman here. The chairman is no matter what consent there was... The college has accepted your position to discuss this. Put it on the agenda. Home made a decision. And I beg you, no more chair without having to give a lecture. So, I didn't do anything. I've even passed, let's just say, what I'm up for has given me a chance to talk about this whole thing. And absolutely, now I reject any criticism that I have abused the Rules of Procedure. Home has made a decision and, really, I don't think there's any need or sense that in such a way here I'm only talking about this part right now. I won't talk about the other parts, 'cause I'm a little caught up in the meantime, so you don't get too complicated again. Come on, let's go. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2122	Thank you very much. So, Honorable Chairman, I haven't read you a lesson, no. This is all I was saying in the end is a warning to you as chairman, who has a very important role in not being contradicted by the fact that, possibly, someone is playing a game and voting on the proposed conclusions on May 15, 2008. They can't and can't, and they're not on the agenda. Here, just because I respect you and you have an important and difficult role as the chairman of the House. Just because it's not, Bog forbid, it's not a lesson. And I told you because you're the chairman, but I told all of us to take care of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2123	Here, but we'll talk more about it. Mr. Filipovć, replica. Who else was looking for a replica? Are you? You gave up, okay. Is it a replica, Mr. Jović? Do you have a replica or do you not?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2124	This is a short replica of two or three things to Mr. Rančić. Just for the sake of precision, since this is being recorded and this whole stenogram is going to come before the relevant people who are very good at reading and interpreting legal norms because that's why they sit there in the Constitutional Court, to say that we didn't ask for any consent or what you said. That comes from the Rules of Procedure. I will only remind you that you have declared the vital interest of the Bosniak people my conclusion in three points and, when you do so, it has given you the right to the Constitution; the translated norm into the Rules of Procedure, Article 16. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House: if none of the clubs objected, opposed to that statement of harmfulness, then it would mean that one and another club listening to your club's statement is in agreement with that statement that this is harmful to the vital interests of the Bosniak people and thus this proposed conclusion would fall. So that he would not fall, in order for someone else to discuss him and your statement of harmfulness in the vital national interests of the Bosniak people, and I have elaborated how much steps it is necessary to even discuss some standard that would be binding or legal, so it is the norm of some public broadcaster or public broadcaster system, so it is an initiative. I also claim that we have responded justifiably, so we did not agree to this statement of yours and that there is no harmfulness in the vital interest of the Bosniak people in the proposal for my conclusion, because it is only one initiative in the wake of the European Convention on the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms, Article 14. And there is no doubt that there is a right between these fundamental human rights and the right to information. And the BiH Constitution contains that right. Objection or disputing your initiative has left this conclusion in life, and I hope that it will be given by the Constitutional Court of Justice and say that this proposal will lead to some norm if it brings no harm to anyone, nor is it useful for the Croatian people if that initiative does not occur. So I explained, and I wouldn't repeat that if we didn't waste time, we'd take away others. Why do you call for a proposal for a conclusion 23. Yeah, I'm 23. 4th submitted a proposal for a conclusion at the plenary session. It's wrong, so now I'm correcting a mistake and in the reminder of having a session and in defining the agenda I'm correcting. It doesn't stand that way, so it's wrong to say about the proposed conclusion. Please, nice. So it's a mistake and we're not standing by the way 40 of you said it. So that's, it's possible to make a mistake, everyone does and they make mistakes. And that's why I redefine, address my conclusion in text, redefine the House of Peoples that decides and needs to decide on this conclusion. You're contesting that. Not at the plenary session, the House of Peoples where we sit. I wouldn't go back to any other corrections. There's been a lot of incorrect allegations in your presentation, but those who analyze everything we're saying here today will see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2125	Thank you very much. I suggest we move on, there'll be more chances for replicas. Next came Mr. Zrno, so Mr. Koprivica, then Mr. Jović, then Mr. Vidović. Before you were, in my opinion, Koprivica some bit, it's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2126	I think that's enough, enough of that said. We still have a whole series of conclusions, but thank Bog, there's something more to say, and I don't want to repeat anything that's been said here. I'm a little in a delicate situation because I'm not a lawyer, but I am a language professor, and this is about a channel in one of the languages of the constituent peoples. I simply and simply, I will not... create or... object or answer. This is about a legitimate requirement that is formulated as a conclusion and I see absolutely no purpose, not even a sense of disabling in any way what is essentially just an initiative. This conclusion is nothing else. That's it. I also don't want to challenge my colleagues from the Bosniak club's position and opinion that it is a threat to vital national interest, although here some of the two things absolutely disagree. I disagree that my struggle for my interest is a threat to someone else's interest. In fact, I'm sorry if I'm shallow or deep, but I just can't understand that contradiction, and I can't just accept it. I understand that first sentence of my colleague Rančić that this is about one important and difficult issue. I'm just turning it into a European or European categorized or imaginary sentence. Because in normal countries, this really is a significant issue, but that's why it's not at all difficult. Because on the principle of all existing statutes of rights from a child through citizens to a people, as an ethical category, that question was long ago resolved. And question him again, then it is a difficult question. But to achieve it, to realize it, to implement it, to bring it back to life and to the information segment, then it ceases to be a question at all. It actually becomes, or remains, a significant segment of one community's life in one country. I'm not going to say it on purpose in BiH, because I'm thinking about Belgium, I'm thinking about Switzerland, I'm thinking about Europe as a whole. And that's the problem. Second, it's particularly bothering me here. I keep trying from the beginning and in my first announcement to warn all of us here, and here I am on purpose, maybe it's a little stupid and boring to repeat the word – initiative. I deliberately repeat it because this is indeed an initiative consistent with the possibilities or better to tell the provisions of Article 9(2) of the Law on the Public TV System of BiH, which we have adopted. This provision rests for three years, three years standing and no one bothered. The moment someone is based on this possibility, meaning legal opportunities, 41 asked a question that is important and significant to him, then not only this conclusion but unfortunately this legislative provision, Article 9 and paragraph (2) of the Radio-Television System Act, became a matter of vital national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2127	Thank you very much. Mr. Koprivica, is it a replica? I'm sorry, it's Mrs. Čolo's replica. So I have to proceed with everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2128	Mr Zrna, I very much appreciate you but believe that this is not an initiative because the Parliamentary Assembly as an authority of the legislative authority confirms the Council of Ministers, means it is in the hierarchy of power above the Council of Ministers. This conclusion states that the Council of Ministers is bound, which is the conclusion of the obligator character and therefore does not have the character of the initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2129	Replica, Mr. Zrna.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2130	At this point, I'm saying this is an initiative. And if it were just an initiative, Mrs Alma, then I wouldn't even talk about it, because I want this initiative to become what makes it possible for me to do the Law on the TV System. But I'm saying the initiative is because what Mr Filipović said, not to elaborate now, is what he said, which is the final decision on the initiation of the procedure, who is doing it!? He's bringing the Council of Ministers. That's what this is about. Oh, no, I didn't just stay with the initiative. You're right. I mean, I accept the line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2131	Any more replicas? Mr. Koprivica called for a discussion. Here you go, Mr. Koprivic.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2132	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your word. I welcome all present colleagues, as well as Mr. Minister and others present today's session. I really won't be long, since we've spent too much time on this agenda point. This is neither the first nor the last time that both homes hold a joint session. You know that somewhere in November last year we had a joint session of both homes at which we discussed the issue of amendments to the Law on Council of Ministers and Rules of Procedure... and one and another home by the High Representative. That after the discussions had been held and that later we had adopted the appropriate conclusions at both homes, and these 42 conclusions became, so later on, in the light of the minutes they were both published, or adopted at our next session. The practice of holding these joint sessions and the other home of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is foreseen in Articles 87, 88, 89. Rules of Procedure... Home to the people, also to the Rules of Procedure... The House of Representatives. Nothing unusual. So it's up to us today to discuss what we had at that session, i.e. The conclusions proposed at this session are considered and to reach final conclusions that are consistent with Article 89 of the House of Peoples, which states: When decisions are taken, homes are declared separately and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the vote are applied – a decision in the House, which means that today we can and must, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, consider the conclusions which are proposed and, of course, make a final decision on these issues. At one of the last House sessions, I asked a question about the realization of the conclusions of last year, when we had a plenary session somewhere in the middle of the year, meaning a session of both homes, where we are... where the conclusion was that one round table was held with representatives of all major media, electronic and written media in BiH. Simply consider the state of media in BiH. All of our stories that we have heard today and the questions that we have asked each other have certainly been caused by one totally disorderly state when it comes to media and media conditions in BiH. And, therefore, such differences in the interpretations and provisions of the Rules of Procedure and thinking in terms of how the Public Service works, whether the Code of Broadcasting is respected and in what way. You know that, of course, this year, the Codex was published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 20, and I think it is necessary to send a public message from this session... Gentlemen that the Codex published by the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency is first read by the responsible people who run public TV services and that it is applied in practice. It is evident that we have very, very common situations where this code is openly broken by certain media and therefore such discussions occur, not only at a home session but also elsewhere. Indeed, here is the freshest example, I cite an example that we recently had at the meeting of the Joint Commission on Human Rights when Mr. Bećirović appeared with the initiative to... condemn Mr. Bahtić's procedure regarding his performance towards a journalist in Bihac. However... we delayed that question. We simply didn't want to consider it purely for reasons because at the time we held this committee's session, we didn't have any written reports by the police, or the competent authorities of the Ministry of the Interior, in which we would know what actually happened on the spot. And we have postponed, simply, to resolve this issue, so that the same Public TV service would publish that evening of information in which all the members of this committee who voted against condemning such a procedure were personally called. Of course, no one supported or supported such a procedure, nor did he say anything in support of such actions by any of us delegates or MPs, and on the other hand it means so openly breaking and disinformation the public about what actually happened on that committee itself. So one of the guys who got hit directly was me. Really, no bad intentions, but here's what I'm trying to say to this case. As for the debate on the work of the Public TV Service, we did it. We had that session, we heard all kinds of attitudes, and here we are again today. We have one option ahead: it is to declare the proposed conclusions of Mr Filipović. In that sense, I wouldn't repeat what we heard. I call upon those present and invite you, Mr. Chairman, to comply with Article 89. The rules of procedure of the House of Peoples are made clear, because I really don't think 43 need to repeat what we've been saying to each other. I don't think there's any reason to drag this point out any more. It's simple, so I suggest we make a statement about these conclusions that are here before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2133	It's a projected replica. Before the replica, I want to say this. We have an active vital interest. That means we won't plead today except that the Dom accepts that it's vital interest but, that it's all over, then there's no statement. It's obvious Dom won't accept that. And I ask you all of these replicas, in what we're going to do and the discussions that we're going to do, we're making sure that the issue of vital national interest is raised and that we try to, let's say, bring it to an end a little bit. Mr. Rančić, there's a replica left, isn't there? But the replica was requested by Mr. Rančić, so we'll ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2134	Thank you very much. So, I've got the wrong quote from a esteemed colleague, Koprivica. A respected colleague referred to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 87, 88 and 89. It is exactly how he read those provisions but should only look at the title of this chapter, the section that says, Section I. Joint Sessions of both homes of the PSBiH. Therefore, the provisions of Articles 87, 88 and 89 shall apply and apply when a plenary session is held. Those provisions, dear colleague, cannot be applied only to the session of... our home. It's written there in some previous decision, a previous member, as otherwise the House decides. So it's incorrect this quote and he's wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2135	Thank you. But what you would say is, it doesn't matter for this case, that debate of yours right now. Mrs. Majkić had a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2136	I think we have an error in the procedure. Therefore, the protection of vital national interest cannot be initiated on something that has not been adopted. So we have their, therefore, threat to the Bosniak club -- if this conclusion is reached, we will launch the protection of vital national interest. What does it run on when it's not brought in? For what? I think we should make a statement, so if the plea is like it doesn't fit that club, then they'll take and run the protection of vital national interest. I think that's the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2137	Please, the proposed decision can be declared harmful, proposed. So, at the stage of the proposal, it is declared. To accept the Bošnjak klub proposal, there must be clubs, most Croatian MPs, most Bosniaks – so it is voted on by clubs – then most 44 Serbians for being vital. When it is declared vital, that conclusion can no longer appear. Since it is clear from the discussion that most Croatians are not concerned that it is vital interest and that most Serbians are not concerned that this vital interest is at stake, then comes... Article 162 which says a three-member commission is being formed that will try to reach a common solution within five days. It is clear today that this solution will not be shared. Then, afterwards, the case goes to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court listens to all of this, our conversations, all of our arguments, collects other papers and decides, as our member writes in an emergency procedure, whether there are irregularities and endangering vital interests in the whole case. So, today, we are not going to make a statement, to make that clear. And that's what I'm trying to say, to narrow it down a little bit. Sir, this is also the answer to your question, and I think it's a good explanation for everyone. Mr. Jović. That's what I'm gonna have to ask at the end of the debate. Are we agreed that it's a vital interest? I have to ask the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2138	: Here, you would say, at the end of about four now debates over one conclusion which had only the desire to encourage responsible ones to apply the provisions of the law and nothing more. And as far as the law is concerned, I want to address my colleagues from the Bosniak People's Club. It is, dear colleagues, that law where in the Council of Ministers none of the Hrvat were in favour of the law. So none of the ministers from the Croatian people were in favour of such a law. Well, those of these benches, we Hrvat left the session, it was voted without us, so without a single vote in the House of Representatives, we're passing the law we're talking about. And then in the House of Peoples, no Hrvat voted for the law, then the Constitutional Court, then no Hrvat were in the Constitutional Court to reject our request for a vital national interest assessment of the Hrvat. Well then, at Federation level, according to this law, the law enforcement at Federation level is the same case, in the Government of none of the Hrvat, in the House of Representatives, in the House of Peoples goes to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court finds that the law is prone to the vital interests of Hrvat and returns it to Parliament to agree and to make new drafts of the law. Majorisation and most of the hands, those who are powerful, powerful in the hands, unfortunately, theirs, are now going to the same law again at the Constitutional Court and he is in front of the Constitutional Court who received and said that the metricity of the Constitutional Court is because there is resistance to the vital interest of Hrvat. As a member of the country's presidency of the Croatian people on 29 January 2006, I launched the Constitution to assess the constitutionality of the law. Gentlemen, this is 2008, for two and a half years, the BiH Constitutional Court cannot sit down to continue the issue. It's the thing that makes me say that from today on, the behavior of my colleagues in this BiH home is not what it was yesterday morning. I'm afraid of that, too. If it was the law, so it's a harsh act with elements of hate, then I'd say, people, let's review it, let's see where the problem is that we're starting here. But I will repeat, on both levels of government in three segments that decide not a single man in the order of Croatia, means 99% of BiH Hrvat, they do not experience that it is a wonder of television and Croatian. Why? It does not guarantee the possibility that I, as a Hrvat, feel that my right to identity is protected, that there are no people in the world but we here, not in Europe, but in the world. In the gango of blacks, I apologize to them 45 for comparing this in a tall home, they have the right to do so. Just get in the way of the Hrvat right. It's more of a show, but I won't enter the Sandžak program than the Hrvat living in BiH. We've recently had a visit, I've been here for this bench saying that we don't even know about the fact that 450 thousand Hrvat live in Chile. We don't have embassies all over the continent. Which country and love I should talk to my children about, if I can't look at the cartoon, if you can't talk about BiH's past in full, if you can't hear your own language!? Not only does she educate him, she has to... and entertain him, without hearing her party, I don't have my own culture on that TV. So, a people are completely marginalized. So are we in vain talking for 15 years about our threat? And then certain people come and say he's threatened. All in the Council of Ministers voted for, everyone here in Parliament, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, and in the Constitutional Court voted that this law was good for them. There you are, gentlemen, and, the television that has the law, stay away from me. I want to exercise the rights that others have in this country. But here, theatrely and hypocritically offer to national minorities, not to give to one nation, it has exceeded the measure. And there is no way to talk in the BiH Parliament where: the Hrvat are and will remain equal. As much as someone wants to marginalize it, it won't work, and those of the international community on the wrong track. Why? Well, we've been out of the law for 500 years, and we're staying here, and we're staying here now. I'm ordering you, gentlemen, to return to normal human relations, to build a country of equal nations and give you a chance for younger generations to stay here and live. The Hrvat is missing 43%, it's the greatest genocide in history ever made on one nation. That TV never said anything about it. Did she go to visit the returner of the Hrvat? No, I don't. Is that what she went to say about doing something for those people? No, I don't. And now I'm gonna say it again, we're all left with civil disobedience. I'm afraid of that, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2139	Thank you very much. Mr. Vidović and I have exhausted the reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, the business of the Public TV System in BiH is the topic of the last months and of the audits and commissions, both of them, and of the homes, of the joint session, here and separately, I really won't talk about it. What we have heard and what has been asked of us by the Management Board and Management requires an intervention that has come to some of the proposals of the conclusion. So, what I want to remind you is all of us that the Management Board and Management has asked for the help of this Parliament. And now I'm also not going to talk about it any further, but specifically about the procedure we're in right now. So, we are talking about the proposed conclusion that the Bosniak People's Club has drawn, therefore, the vital national interest of the Bosniak people. So, thinking about me at the Croatian Club for reasons why we're opposed to it, that's what Mr. Filipović's chairman said, I want to add to the next one. So our thinking went in the direction that we want the Public TV service of BiH that this country needs, so really 46 functional, financially sustainable, please, acceptable to all the peoples, all three peoples in BiH. And I can't believe that our quest to get a system like this that would create a new channel with the existing Law on the TV system to be more efficient, rational, financially sustainable, so that it can act harmfully on the vital interest of the Bosniak people. In that sense, here, and I strongly, therefore, object to the request of the Bosniak Club, and the reason for this is that here are colleagues already spoken and in further procedure as follows what the College predicted, which our Rules of Procedure clearly foresees. Of course, we're going to be involved with this, and so here's what I was going to say for a second. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2141	Thank you very much. I suggest... we've closed the debate. Please raise the question of vital national interest in accordance with the Rules of Procedure where most delegates from one nation can pursue vital interest. So it's started. To make a decision that it is vital interest, it requires the consent of most Bošnjak, which we have, most of the Hrvat, as far as I understand, because there is no one who supports that it is vital national interest. Am I right? The Serbian People's Club also has no one to support that it is vital national interest, which means dom has not made a decision that it is vital national interest. And we move to point 162. A Rules of Procedure that says, "In the event of opposition..."
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2142	... Let him plead. [[no microphone turned on]] So the problem is for formal reasons.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2143	You insist on voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2145	Well, I figured it out, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2146	... Let him plead, therefore, without the Constitutional Court. [[no microphone...]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2147	I'm calling the Bosniak Club, no, I have to go clubbing, so don't, please. This is where most of the votes of every club are decided, not collectively. That's why I have to go to clubs and we don't need to use electronics because it's gonna confuse, we can raise hands. Please delegates, no. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2148	... Let me ask you one more time. [[no microphone turned on]] As dakl Club, we have decided that it is harmful, destructive by the vital national interest of the Bosniak people, point 3 of the conclusion proposed by Mr Ilija Filipović, under the number: 01025118-88/08 since 23.4.2008. So point three of that one conclusion that has a point one, two, three. And so, it's a controversial thing and that thing should be... decided, pleaded.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2149	Please, I must tell you that I have an official request from the delegate to make a statement about the conclusion he made. Please, in content terms, he is the same except he is, whether he is the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples. Allow me, I think that you in the Constitutional Court will most likely have to explain each other, one for, the other for why they are against, in order for the Constitutional Court to make an adequate decision. I cannot decide, nor can I, as chairman, now ask Mr Filipović to draw conclusions, nor can I insist that he vote on what he is, that and... was proposed as the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, therefore, that is a fact. But I have neither the right nor the right to decide, I can only put the chairman to the vote. Here's the business, first Mr. Rančić then.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2150	The Honorable Chairman, keeping this in mind, was just what I was saying earlier, not that I was reading a lesson, but that I was warning us, you, and all of us. You, as chairman of this session and this item of the agenda, must be perfectly, unequivocally, clearly and clearly know what the agenda is and what the materials are for this item of the agenda and what you put to the vote. Please, does that mean we can make any conclusions here now? That any 13 of us can... sort their conclusions. He can't, please, the chairman! Please respect the Rules of Procedure. You're carrying him out. That's what the Rules of Procedure gave you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2151	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2152	And please hold on to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2153	Thank you very much. Please, before the explanation, since I'm the chairman, I'm going to read the agenda point one more time. I will read the agenda point: Proposal for delegations' conclusions in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly discussed, this conclusion is also discussed at that session. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2154	... not considered, submitted. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2155	Well, he didn't stand the way he was now. He was being considered. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] That's why it's on the agenda. This request has been considered, now, whether it's in this form or that, since we're not going to plead today, it's irrelevant to me. For the court isn't, it's in court you'll give your argument, the other side will give theirs, so they'll see what the Constitutional Court eventually decides. And what exactly are you asking me to do? What exactly? Where did I break it? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2158	The chairman, as we move to vote on our proposal, we have called for the protection of vital national interest. We said that point 3 of the conclusion proposed by Mr Filipović is destructive by the vital national interest of the Bosniak people. Since I'm pleading on that, I'm asking you to put it that way in the record. So we're pleading whether Mr Filipović's point 3 of the conclusion is destructive to the vital national interest, but only point 3, we didn't say point 1 and point 2. And don't drag us into anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2159	Well, I'm not, so I'm going to point three.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2160	Please, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2161	So, guys, did you listen to me?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2162	It's important. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2163	Listen, I put it to a vote, I don't even know what it is, you've launched a vital national interest at point 3. I've said it many times and I'm now asking about clubs, I want to make it clear because of the record, the seriousness of Parliament. Is it against the vital interests of the Bosniak people, according to the Bosniak Club? – that is how the Rules of Procedure foresees – the Club of the Croats and the Club of Serbs. And just point three and nothing else. So, can we approach the vote now that we've cleared it up? I ask the Bošnjak klub: Is point 3, the proposed conclusion of Mr Filipović, contrary to the vital interests of the Bosniak people? Three votes "yes". Filled most of them. I ask the MPs of the group of the people of Zavat: Is point 3, the proposed conclusion, contrary to the vital interests of the Bosniak people? Five votes "against". I ask MPs from the Serb people: Is point 3, the proposed conclusion, contrary to the vital interests of the Bosniak people? So, with five votes "against". So there's no agreement in the House that this is about vital interest. This means that we are now deciding in accordance with Article 162. Rules of Procedure: In the event of opposition from most Croatian, Bosniak or Serbian MPs to Article 161. (2) The Rules of Procedure, which we have just had, the chairman of the House of Nations, convenes a joint committee composed of three delegates, one of which are Croatian, Bosniak and Serbian delegates, to resolve the issue. I ask the president of the Bošnjak klub who is a member of the delegation...?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2164	I'm the vice president, I'm taking over the president of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2165	All right, Mr. Hazim Rančić. I'm asking the Croatian People's Club who's in front of that club on this joint committee? _________(?) gospodin Filipović. So your proposal is Mr Filipović. I ask Mrs. Majkić who's outside?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2167	Mr. Koprivica. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2168	Mr. Koprivica, good. The Commission has an obligation to deliver within five days, try to resolve the issue, I suggest that it try to resolve the issue immediately after this session, but the deadline is five days. If this Commission fails to deliver a joint opinion within five days, the case shall be automatically referred to the Constitutional Court which will examine by emergency procedure whether there are irregularities in the procedure of adoption of this conclusion. Thank you very much. We move on to a statement on Mr Adem Ibrahimpašić's conclusions. The first question is are we going to conclude by conclusion or are we going to go...?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2169	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2170	You're asking to go one conclusion at a time, okay. Just a second for me to come to a conclusion, do you have me here?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2171	... There's one more question. [[no microphone turned on]] Does this mean that the Bošnjak have accepted my first and second points? If they're not, then let's be clear about them.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2172	Well, you asked us not to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2173	... No, no, they're looking... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2174	If I understand, Bošnjak have no problem with points 1 and 2 of vital interest. But you, Mr Filipović, said you wouldn't vote on points 1 and 2 without points 3 and that's why I didn't put her to the vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So, please, did you hear, did you hear the delegate Filipović? Did you... tell me that you're not going to adopt just one and two, without three? That's how I realized it. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2176	... If I can only further explain... [[no microphone turned on]] Chairman, thank you very much, but everything is being recorded, everything is very important in this procedure. The Bosniak People's Club found harmful or destructive by the vital interest of the Bosniak people only point 3 of my unique conclusion, which has three points. If that's the case, I want a life for those first two points of my conclusion. And please make this home known... about those two points. Point by point, just a little bit, sorry, I'm following your gesture. Mrs Alma, your report says you want a statement point by point in the conclusion. Please respect the commission's suggestions in this home.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2177	Thank you very much. That's how I planned it from the beginning. But I understood that the Hrvat have a reason why they won't have the first two points without this third, but if everything goes, as far as I'm concerned, it's not a problem at all. Then let's move on to a plea. Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2178	... Just before the vote tell us, read us... the points we're going to vote on. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2179	Wait a minute, I'm sorry, you've told your people what you're investing in vital national interest. At point 3 of the conclusion of 23. 4. I redefined it, so the conclusion, adapted it to the House of Text, which decides on my conclusion, and whether you vote it or not. So it's an identical text, but I keep a valid decision in this home conclusion that I redefine for the House of Peoples which, on that point, decides. It is in accordance with...... the conclusion and conclusion, the final word of the chairman at the plenary session, it is according to today's decision at the House of Peoples, separately,... in a separate session of both homes on the conclusions of the plenary session and I don't know why... you didn't understand why I redefined, adapted the text to the House that decides on it. This conclusion no longer goes to the plenary session, he decides on it in the House of Peoples and also on the conclusions reached by MPs from the House of Representatives will not be discussed here. It's not possible in business at a separate session. And we will not call upon the plenary to decide the conclusions, on their conclusions, therefore, and also on the conclusions of the representatives of the SDA will be decided by the House of Representatives if they are the conclusions of the representatives of the SDA of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2180	I know, now we're going to open a debate whether we can vote on the conclusion of the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples, and I would say unnecessary, because no one gets anything out of these two, and I don't understand why we're ever in again.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2181	Well, the integral text is very important to me that we have it, so this one. 52 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] That's right, we'll deliver him as evidence... Constitutional court.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2183	You didn't get me, but fine. On the one hand, the Bosniak Club will ask us to make a statement on this conclusion contained in the Commission report and to call on that nothing that was not on the Commission cannot go to Parliament. And you will insist on this conclusion... in which the House of Peoples is mentioned and then we will enter unnecessaryly into the procedural executions with which and which will eventually end. We'll probably vote on both.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2184	Namely, if I may, Mladen, yet only, I apologize...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2185	You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2186	In essence, there is no difference in point 3 of the proposal for a conclusion offered to the plenary session and the proposal for a conclusion offered to the House of Peoples. I'm just saying that we can't put out, ad act, and the conclusion that I redefined textically, I just said, it says there: the Parliamentary Assembly. It says: House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. So, I don't know what the issue is... but in the Commission, the Commission didn't have a redefined conclusion at the time because it received conclusions... from the Secretariat from a joint session. And as today's session and how today's agenda is established and how we talked about today... it goes into this agenda, then it was logical to redefine the conclusion for the House of Nations session that decides on it. The fact that you have raised a question of vital national interest in a text that is identical to my conclusion, I don't think it will bother anyone who decides at all. So I accept that the Constitutional Court will decide whether to take this conclusion of 23. The fourth to be prepared for the plenary session and the decision-making or the House of Peoples... which I have redefine today to decide on the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2187	Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2188	Thank you very much. So, I repeat, I guess this is clear to all, the text that reads: To oblige the Council of Ministers to immediately initiate the procedure for the establishment of a new TV channel in Croatian within the Public TV Service of BiH, based on the provision of Article 9 of the Law (2), is, for us, as we have declared destructive, whether, in the vital interest of the Bosniak people. But 53 respected colleagues, especially Mr Filipović, do not respect himself. Of course, I have to say, you've made yourself a trap here. You've made yourself a procedural trap here. And you may have been able to re-vote the Bosniak Club either in one way or in one way but you wrote and did not respect the thing you decided on at the College, and your colleague Ivanić signed it. And it's about the conclusions of April 23rd with the plenary session. And it is important, a respected colleague, because the conclusions of April 23rd say that the Parliamentary Assembly decides and adopts conclusions and owes and takes views. The Parliamentary Assembly is – you know it, but I have to say it – both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. That's your conclusion as of April 23rd. And you adopted such a agenda, and I warned, this may be the sixth time, warning that it's counter-procedural, against the Pslovnik, but for nothing, you're not listening. He begged you, bestowed you, offered compromises, but you didn't want anything... to accept. And then you made yourself a trap and you allowed yourself, did you, to go to conclusions, that the House of Peoples should adopt such conclusions as one home, and you suggested 15. You can't adopt something that you suggested 15, and the agenda point is these conclusions of April 23rd. That's how you adopted it. And please, Chairman, please, that... you respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2189	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2190	So there are no traps in redefining the text for this home, because this is given to this home for decision, because my conclusion is I didn't even insist on going to the House of Representatives. The conclusion of the plenary session is that the conclusions will be accepted after the commission of one and the other at separate sessions. I end all misunderstandings in understanding and concept, which is why I redefine the text for the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2191	Thank you very much. Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2192	... Rančić opened that question over and over again. [[no microphone turned on]] So, it is clear to me as an illegal that Mr Filipović has formulated a conclusion towards the plenary session, therefore to the BiH Parliament, expecting it to declare these conclusions at a joint session. The sitting is closed if spoken and said that the homes will plead and that is what the College has decided. Therefore, he only had to adjust the decision of the body to decide. He can't tie Parliament up... a body, but he's turning to the House to adopt it. If you, Mr. Rančić, think it's a procedural mistake that will cause Mr. Filipović to lose the dispute, let us lose him, let's move on to the agenda, here we go. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2193	Then I suggest we make a point, here's the point, since the delegate who suggested the conclusion insists that it be a vote on the conclusion of, date 15, did you say, May. Is it May 15th, from which date is this new version?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2194	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2195	I, I, ma... can. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2196	: Did the Committee consider the conclusions?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2197	Yes, it is. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2198	: How was that conclusion on the Committee there?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2199	The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2200	- On the board?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2201	Yeah. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2202	: And who ordered the Committee to debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2203	College. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2204	What home?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2205	Home to the people. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2206	It's all clear... 55
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2207	So we're all clear, I keep saying it, and I'm trying to tell you, we're having an unnecessary debate, the bottom line is that Mr. Filipović is the bottom line. He gave the formulation. The Bošnjak Club notes that it is not the same as it was at the debate in the Parliamentary Assembly. It's the procedural thing that they'll go in when they talk here. They're criticising me now so I shouldn't put that on, and I don't have any business provisions that I can't put this on what Mr. Filipović insists. I'll put it on, there's nothing else to say about it. So, who's in favour of adopting Mr Filipović's first point of view? Do you want me to read it or do you have it in front of you? - The people of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly are unquestionably in favour of the legally stable business of public broadcasters and strongly supports the true, whole, impartial, fair and timely information of the public - I read literally Croatian - about all the events in BiH and the exercise of public information equally in the languages of all three constituent peoples in BiH in the spirit of international European regulations and standards as well as the provisions of the BiH Constitution. I'm putting this on (we can now go electronically). Prepare to vote! You can vote. I find that with...10 votes "yes" and three "remained" this conclusion, point 1 of the conclusion was adopted. Moving to point 2. - The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly considers this to be an issue of equality between the people and the citizens of BiH and is one of the foundations of survival, self-sustainability and long-term stability of the country. I've translated this a little bit. Prepare to vote! You can vote. I find that with 10 votes "yes" and three "sustained" points, point 2 of the conclusion has been adopted. Point 3 is not spoken of. We move to a statement on the points of Mr Adem Ibrahimpašić's conclusion. - Point one. Fully implement the Law on the Public TV System and the Law on TV Service and to task the Ministry of Transport and Communication for realisation. Is that how transportation and communication work? Prepare to vote! You can vote. 56 I find that this conclusion was given three votes "for", that there were nine "against" and one "abstained". There's not a lot of them. The conclusion didn't go through. Prepare to vote on conclusion number 2. - It is up to the Council of Ministers to provide 56 million KM budgets over the next five years for investing in the digitisation of transmission and production networks. Prepare to vote! You can vote. Thank you. I find that with three votes "yes" and 10 votes "against" this conclusion has been rejected. Point 3. - Increase the tv fee to a minimum of 10 KM to stabilise business and resuscitate debts. Prepare to vote! You can vote. I realise that this conclusion has received one vote "for", two votes "sustained", 10 votes "against" and it has not been adopted. We're moving to the fourth item of the agenda. The fourth item of the agenda is Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on the Fiscal Council of BiH (second reading) The Joint Committee has considered, there are no amendments. The House of Representatives hasn't adopted the truth yet. I was against it, and here I'm afraid we're going to put it on the agenda in the House of Peoples, but most of the time, the dom has made a decision to get involved. I'm opening a debate. Are there any interested in the debate? There isn't. Please prepare for the vote! You can vote. Thank you. The law in the second reading received 12 votes "yes" and one "against" vote. Enough entity majority. I find that the Law on the Fiscal Council of BiH has also been adopted in the second reading. Moving to point five, that's 57 Ad. 5. Proposal for a framework law on the protection and rescue of people and material goods from natural and other accidents in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to really after all this procedure that lasted a few months to say two words in favor of this law. First of all, I want to really welcome the adoption of this law, I consider it an extremely high-quality text that provides a very good basis for competent authorities to be able to respond in crisis situations in quality. I believe this law clearly and precisely regulates the jurisdiction of the competent state authorities in this area, which has not been the case so far. I must finally express my sincere regret that this law was not passed last year, that we did not have such a legal text, because I believe we had this legal text that the damage that BiH suffered last year would be far less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2211	Thank you very much. There are no new reports. We'll approach the statement of the law itself. Prepare to vote! You can vote. Thank you. I find that this law has been adopted unanimously, in the same text as in the House of Representatives. We're going to point six, that's ad. Six. Proposal for a law on agriculture, nutrition and rural development (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers The House of Representatives passed this law but with 17 amendments. You've reached the committee's report. The Commission adopted these 17 amendments and they are identical to the amendments adopted at the House of Representatives. 58 New amendments were submitted by the delegate Slobodan Šaraba. I'm opening a debate. I suggest I read the first amendment first because we will have to declare ourselves individually about the amendments and then open the debate. If there is a general debate or if Mr. Šaraba intends to explain each individual amendment; if it is general, then he would beg him to take his word, but after the President of the Commission, is he. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2213	Thank you, Chairman. The report says that the Commission adopted 17 amendments that passed at the House of Representatives, by considering the amendments submitted by Mr Slobodan Šaraba. He was a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations who gave an interpretation to question the adoption of these amendments of the law so that the Commission unanimously, in fact, with one vote "against" Mr. Šaraba's voice, voted on each amendment individually, and I appreciate the need for the House to have this fact in mind before its amendments were made.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2214	Thank you. Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will generally say a few sentences concerning this legislation that has long been in the parliamentary procedure here, going back to the commission, and then getting support, returned from the House. Therefore, the above-mentioned legislation constitutes a classic transfer of competence from the entity to BiH level contrary to Article III point 5. The BiH Constitution, which means that this legislation, this transfer of jurisdiction, was to be declared by the National Assembly of the RS. The objective of my amendments is perfectly clear, and this is to prevent in one significant part the transfer of competence and to retain those entity competences belonging to the RS in this legislation. That law is bad, and this also confirms the position of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm just going to read two sentences from this legislation, I'm going to read, here's the need, and that's: 'The proposed law on agriculture, nutrition and rural development is not acceptable, because it does not respect the conclusions of the National Assembly of 14. Six. 2006. The Committee proposes that this conclusion be delivered to RS lawmakers and that it should not be accepted. The Committee considers the establishment of a new or expansion of an existing task force that will work on the creation of a new law, and that I do not read any further. Obviously, some people do mind, but that's what you have to say. And I therefore propose these amendments and consider them very important towards preventing the transfer of competences from RS to BiH level. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2216	Thank you very much. Is there any need for further discussion? There isn't. Will the gentleman be present for the quorum, chairing your club? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Apparently federal TV, obviously FTV, joke, joke, nothing, I'll read it. Amendment I - In Article 7(a) and (m) are amended and read as follows: (a) On the basis of established agri-economic policies of entities and Brcko District, the framework for agro-economic policy of BiH is established. m) Provides constant consultation of all inspection services in the agricultural sector. Prepare to vote! You may enter a plea on amandman I.. hvala you. I find that "for" was three, "against" six, "remained" three. The amendment didn't get most of it. We're crossing... please vote more carefully in the future. Don't have it for me. Don't have it for me, Adam. amandman ii - In Article 8(b) is amended and reads: They coordinate their farming development strategies, which represent a framework for the development of the BiH Agriculture Development Strategy. Prepare to vote! You can vote. Thank you. With seven votes "against", one vote "for" and, if I understand five, three "abstained". I don't hear from anyone. This amendment has not been adopted. We move to the statement on amandman III, which reads: 60 Amendment III - In Article 9a) the words "BiH and entities" are deleted and... and the words are added: "the plan of the development of the entity's agriculture and which is consistent with the development of BiH agriculture" Get ready to vote! Who is in favour, or declare yourself on this amendment. He's confusing me. He's throwing me over here next to something. I realise that this amendment has received one vote "for", eight votes "against" and four "abstained". No amendment adopted. Prepare for a statement on amandman IV, which reads: Amendment IV - Article 12(1), (3) and (6), are amended and read as follows: 1) The basis for the implementation of the rural development policy of BiH is determined by the strategic plan of rural development of the entity and Brcko District. 3) The Strategic Plan of Entitys and Brcko District is coordinated by an Interresor Commission composed of representatives of the entity and Brcko District. Such a coordinated plan is the BiH Strategic Plan. 6) In point 6 above the word ‘Brcko District’ is deleted. Prepare for a plea! You may declare yourself on this amendment. With one vote "for", nine votes "against" and three "abstained" – Amandma IV was not adopted. We move to the statement on amandman v, which reads: Amendment V - In Article 19(3), the word “institution” is added: “and other experts in the field of agriculture.” Prepare to vote! You can plead. Thank you. I find that with one vote "yes", eight votes "against" and four "abstained" this amendment has not been adopted. Prepare to make a statement on amandman VI which reads as follows: 61 Amendment VI - In Article 21, point 3) and 5) are deleted. Prepare to vote! You can vote. I find that with one vote "for", nine votes "against" and three "abstained" amendments VI have not been adopted. Amendment, prepare for the vote on amandman vi, which reads: amandman vi - Article 25(1) and (2), are deleted. Prepare to vote! You can vote. Thank you. I find that with one vote "yes", nine votes "against" and three "abstained" amandman vi has not been adopted. We move to the Declaration on amandman vi, which reads: Amendment VIII - Article 26(2), is deleted. Prepare to vote! You can vote. Thank you. I find that with one vote "for", eight votes "against" and four "abstained", amandman vi; pardon, with one vote "for", nine votes "against" and three "abstained" – amandman vi has not been adopted. Now we're going to vote on this law. So get ready to vote on this law. Please let us vote on this law. Only those who were “against ” do not make mistakes now. I find that no one has sinned and I find that with 12 votes it is "for" and one vote "against" that this law has been adopted in the same text as at the House of Representatives. We're going to the seventh point, that's 62 Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2219	So I'm not gonna argue, I'm just gonna ask an open question and I'm not even looking for an answer to it. Whose idea it is and whose intention is to bring down the threshold of the application for a judicial examination, when a man without any experience and contact with the judiciary can pass that exam and then enter the judicial system. I'm not sure that good intentions are behind this, but here, if that's a contribution, I'll give a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2220	When there's a debate about the essence, these are now principles and legal basis. Can we approach the plea? We can. Prepare for a plea. You can vote! I find that in the first reading this law has received unanimous support from 13 delegates. We move to the eighth point of the agenda, which is: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers You've reached the bill of law and the opinion of the committee in charge. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. The House of Representatives passed this law in its first reading. This is the first reading and it's just a debate about necessity and principles. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2222	I would like a few words, a team before six years of waiting for an institution to become official through the law, so the decision to set up a Directorate for 63 implementation of the CIPS project adopted by the Council of Ministers in 2002 will finally cease to apply the moment this law takes effect. So for so many years, the CIPS Project Implementation Directorate has been working on the basis of a sublegal act, and we know what the problems were in its functioning. I know it's, it's easy to say that after adopting this law, so I really can't talk if everyone's saying...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2223	Wait a minute, my fellow delegate has an objection.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2224	So,... after the adoption of the law, there will be a shut-down of the CIPS Directorate. It's a good thing because we'll end up having... The Agency for Identification Documents and Records and Data Exchange, which will take over all responsibilities of the CIPS and get some new ones. Accordingly,... I believe that these principles should be supported and the delegates of the Serbian People's Club will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2225	Thank you very much. Is there any further interest? There isn't. We can access the plea. Please prepare for the vote! You can vote. I find that with 12 votes "for" unanimously, in the first reading, this law has received support. Moving to point 9. Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers You've received the bill of law, the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. The House of Representatives passed this law in its first reading. I'm opening a debate. There's no one interested in the debate. Please prepare to make a statement about this law. You can vote! I find that with 12 votes "for" this law was adopted in the first reading. 64 We move to point 10. Ad. Ten. Security information in BiH in 2007
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2228	I believe that this information will cause a lot of controversy, given that it is also within the competent commission, and that is the Commission for Defence and Security, there has been a lot of controversy, and in various ways we have tried to get out of this deadlock at all, which is called the 2007 Information on the State of Security of BiH. What I would like to point out is that this information does not answer any key security issues. It does not respond to the state of security in BiH, in which security is good, in which it is bad, what are the trends of growth or decrease in crime. So there is no key answer to any of these questions. Also... The information does not answer any crucial question because there is no single score for the state of security, in particular there is no assessment of the state of crime in BiH. How to draw a conclusion from such information on the state of security in BiH, which should be an expedient task of this kind of information. In the Information there is no conclusion, analysis, nor a proposal for improvement measures, so that, finally, one wonders why, in fact, to whom it is intended and whether it is possible for this level of information to come into debate at all in the Parliamentary Assembly. I particularly underline the access to the design Information is unsystematic, incompatible, without order, with a series of data that are irrelevant from the aspect of security, which is given a large space in the Report. And on the other hand, you have, like juvenile delinquency, a space with a very narrowed and short space, you don't even talk about essential things, why there's been an increase in juvenile delinquency, so we don't have a single answer that we can set ourselves up while we're reading this material. There's no final evaluations and no analysis. No view of unique statistical displays. Only partial conclusions are drawn, without a clear and complete picture. I wonder how it is possible that such a report, or information, as it has been called, has no proposal to improve the security situation in BiH, no deadlines or bearer of activity. So what's a report like this supposed to be for? Where is it called the report, where are the safety and problem priorities listed, and how should they be addressed? Is it not logical that as one of the measures in this report to be the adoption of a strategy and action plan in the fight against several modern-day monsters, which is juvenile delinquency, drugs, economic crimality, corruption, and that in a country where young people are killed on the street, drugs are taking a growing toll every day? IVO 65
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2229	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2230	No, let them wait if they want us to finish at least some points. So, about that we can't... Here, let the Croatian Club go
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2231	Well, does that mean we have to interrupt the session so we can go make statements? Indeed, if colleagues from the Bosniak club allow it, it is clear to me, but I think we should stay in our seats until we finish what we do here. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2232	Excuse me. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2233	I don't think he went to make a statement. So this, too, I understand why it's not the subject of interest by Bošnjak. It's clear to me, when a report this serious doesn't come to that club's attention, and that's clear to me because you'll certainly vote to adopt such a report. So none of the key problems in society sees either the Minister of Security, nor finds it appropriate to be present here and comment on the material he has signed. So I think we should do a few things... when it comes to this material. Based on what we have received, there is no impression of the state of security in BiH. And I suggest that this material is not adopted. So, to return to the Ministry of Security and I suggest the conclusion: - The People's House asks the Ministry of Security to draw up new information within 30 days on the state of security in BiH for 2007, with an analysis of the state of security and the proposal for measures and to submit it for consideration to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2234	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba, then Mr. Zrna. Can I get a proposal for a conclusion in writing?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 66 My surprise, before I say anything, is really big, since I don't see anyone here from the Ministry, and it was meant to be both the minister and his deputies and to hear everything that's going to be said here and what's going to be proposed and to come through the comments and through the discussion to what really has a goal, which is to advance this material that we've got here. And there's a lot of places where this material can be improved. I'll say first that the security situation, and this comes from this report, is much worse in 2007 than in 2006. And that comes from the percentage of the execution of certain crimes when the percentages are compared these two years. I could really count very much: crimes of smuggling 15%, illegal migration 62%, unauthorized production and drug trafficking 15%, crimes in traffic 11%, car theft 16%, armed robbery 18%. So these are all crimes whose rate of increase in 2007 is significantly... higher than in 1996. All this data must be taken seriously. They're worrying me, I believe all of you, and they're forcing us all to take a series of emergency measures together to reduce these forms of crime next year. And that's why it was necessary for the people of the Ministry to be here, so that we could all analyze this together and come to some conclusions that would be binding. There's a lot of objections I could make to the text itself. In one part of the material, and I really have to comment on it, which is information about the current state of security, there's one thing that I've been commenting on on on on the Commission and it says that there are no cases of war crimes suspects being prosecuted, which is absolutely not true. The information we're going to discuss now, which comes after this, says the War Crimes Department is working on two shifts. So on the one hand, we have the Ministry's claim that it's not working, and in the other document, that people work in two shifts, which is really incorrect, and it's not correct. At the theft of the vehicle, please, the Trebines from which I come are not mentioned anywhere. We've had a terrible mess in the city for two and a half months, we've had an emergency situation, and in this report that speaks of car theft, no mention of Trebinje in any other country, and 100 or more vehicles stolen. And in this report by the ministry, absolutely no word about what was going on in southern Herzegovina. And in the crime scene, armed robbery, when it comes to an increase in robbery this year, it's said to be a good thing it's stolen less money. Really cynical. And indeed, that part of the text should be deleted from this report. And in the end, I'll cut it short. I think special attention should be paid to three or four things. It is necessary to provide an institution for the resociation of juvenile delinquents. It's being imposed from this text. And I think it's an urgent matter to deal with the Council of Ministers and the competent ministry. Not preventing roads in eastern Herzegovina, through which is the Balkan route of drugs! Me and my colleagues from the Defence and Security Commission have recently been in Capljina in a border unit that has clearly admitted to us that these routes through which these drug routes go are not hampered by lack of financial resources. So that could all be prevented by here, let me say, 10,000 marks. It is unacceptable for me, too, that the Ministry of Security cannot provide those funds to prevent these routes. Well, gentlemen, all these thefts of vehicles that took place in Herzegovina were headed that way. And the Ministry won't react, and what am I supposed to suspect in the end? So, I think there is an urgent need to prevent these roads, because these roads happen very, very ugly things for BiH. 67 There's an increase in car accidents! It is obvious that the Transport Act adopted two years ago did not give the expected results and that one comprehensive analysis is needed to indicate what needs to be changed in this law. I think he has very good solutions, but it takes one analysis that will remove certain shortcomings and that will lead to this law being acceptable and giving results. Finally give the results. And I believe that in law, that is, in laws that suit money laundering, it is necessary to remove weaknesses, as this report also says. Remove weaknesses in laws that regulate money laundering! And strengthen financial supervision to prevent illegalities in this form of economic crime. That's what needs to be done. And indeed, once again, I underline, I regret that the people of the Ministry are not here, that we agree together on some of these things, especially those concerning Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2236	Thank you very much. Mrs. Čolo, just before, is anyone in this structure here who remains representing some of these authors? No, well, then I'll suggest a special conclusion. Mrs. Čolo, it's you, isn't it? I, for all I know, didn't see you answer? And I apologize, then, no, no, Mr. Zrna, you're in order and I'm holding on to gender equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2237	Okay. Thanks, I won't be long. But, indeed, it is one of the important issues, I think at this point one of the most important issues in all of BiH. And here I am speaking as chairman of the relevant committee who also discussed the first report and on your... knowledge we did not declare this report, but only received it, referred it to a further parliamentary procedure and offered Parliament the conclusions, that he too concluded at the Commission level, that he accepted them and that they became an integral part of the debate on this problem. And thus also the obligation of the Ministry of Security in future actions and in future making information about the state of security in BiH. Information as information, in itself, and it's not so special to me, it's not that important, because we know the limitations of the Ministry. This information from the Ministry of Security is essentially a collection of information from police agencies and ministries, MIPs, two entities and we get it as information. It's more important to us than anything else. It's more important for us to definitely and finally, meaning definitely and finally, do and do a security strategy, a security strategy. Without that strategy, we can no longer discuss the state of security in BiH, in any aspect. So we have to have a security strategy and from that security strategy then there will be a strategy to fight organised crime, anti-drug strategies, violence, juvenile delinquency, anti-corruption, etc. etc. I think thanks to the police agencies or security agencies that we have and we have enough and professional staff and potential – this job and do and do. That's actually the essence here, not the numbers and letters that we get in this report, but that's the essence. When we will be told finally and definitely, 68 gentlemen, you will have in Parliament in a month or two or six months of security – I have been asking this for two and a half years – a security strategy. When we do, let them tell us, and I will be absolutely satisfied with that answer, or content when we get that strategy. Well, then the security sector will operate at the country-wide level, according to its segments to the top of the state. And that's why I don't think we do. I support this proposal by Mrs Dušanka Majkić, he is about the Commission's position. That is why we did not want to make a statement, but I am asking Parliament to add this conclusion to the ministry's obligation to do so, because we have sent it to our homes to respond to the conclusions we have made to Parliament, as the Commission has to accept them, or home them, and to forward them together to the Ministry of Security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2238	Thank you very much. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2239	Well, the chairman, I wouldn't agree with Mrs. Majkić who said this information was so bad. The information on the state of security in BiH is a set of indicators collected from the field and it speaks of security throughout BiH's territory. Is the Ministry of Security the only one responsible for the situation we have in BiH, and is only the Minister of Security supposed to be sitting here today? Who in BiH is worried that the citizens will be safe? You all know very well that from the special specialised agencies that exist at the state level there are involved from the highest level to the lowest and... internal affairs and prosecution authorities, you know that under the new Criminal Procedure Act, it is the prosecutors who are working to detect the perpetrators of the crimes, so along with the police and in the processing of the perpetrators of the crimes. There are also courts that process these persons and of course the successful processing depends on the state of security in BiH. I think this information lacks an assessment of the state of crime in BiH. We will see from the next report, from the BiH Prosecutor's Office's report that there is no assessment of the state of crime in BiH either, in general. Here they are referring to the state of criminality in the RS, in the Federation of BiH, but there is no such thing in this information. I think that, when it comes to assessing the state of crime and the measures to be taken, it is necessary to approach in a comprehensive way this issue, with a multidisciplinary approach. We don't have a justice minister here today who should coordinate the data provided by the BiH Prosecutor's Office that gives lower prosecutions to the top BiH Prosecutor's Office, and the justice ministry that should coordinate the data provided by the High Court and Prosecutor's Office. Believe me, last year, when we discussed the BiH Prosecutor's Office's Report, the BiH Court, and the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, those data disagreed at all. They didn't agree on the number of crimes committed, in the number of perpetrators of crimes, how the adult so-old, so-called perpetrators of crimes, and I think it really takes a comprehensive action here at the state level to be involved, first of all, the Council of Ministers that needs to coordinate all these activities, and the Minister of Security himself can answer this question, and I think that the illusion and... accuse someone of not giving an assessment of the state of crime in this information and proposing measures for its solution, just from the point of view of the Security Minister, I don't think it's a step up. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2240	I knew it! Replica, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2241	Now, we can't talk about things here anymore. If it's true that... it's a security policy that is an entity, a prosecutor's office, and I don't know who, what we need this ministry for. Let's end this ministry, so we don't need it if they don't have any obligation! Isn't it the Ministry of Security's obligation to establish a list of security priorities in the country? No, they only add, it was there, it was there. So, nothing on the subject is said. On what basis will the Parliamentary Assembly, which is tasked with monitoring the security sector through the Defence and Security Commission, but we as two homes, on what parameters and elements will we be able to monitor their work at all? There aren't any elements based on which I could. Secondly, it was not done, this report was not based on a comparative method as the most important method of statistical monitoring of security measures. Which is, who, where, in which segment is one represented? It's been two years, and here I am... welcoming the gentleman from Central Bank, and my brain is, Kozarić, I'm sorry. This is very painful today. But the statistical data that the Central Bank is, they're an example of a message for all of us how it's done, how good reports should be done. Where in this report information, or answer to the question, is the security system of BiH able to fight criminal and security threats. Where is that, the answer to that? Well, shouldn't a report of this kind have an answer to that question? Yes, I could still elaborate, but I don't have the strength, so there are a thousand reasons why such a report should not be adopted and why the competent ministry should be forced to learn how to make reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2242	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2243	I apologize for calling again. We don't need to argue here about this. I mean, at all, we're having a good time. Nothing here today means we raise our hands or we don't raise our hands for this report. We can take it into account, as the Commission has done, with the obligation to accept the Commission's conclusions on defence and security, including the conclusions but also what I said: without a crime-fighting strategy we cannot expect, nor will we ever get any, or, indeed, real report. We must and, just one more thing, this Parliament must look to and expect what we expect and what we are looking for and what we must ask of the Ministry of Security. We don't have that simple to ask of anyone else. And... security is... Let them choose, or, I'm sorry, both cantonal and entity MUP. [[You can't hear me.]] So he should have that information, I believe there's a lot of problems. So this story I think we should end it this way. Thank you. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2244	Thank you. And I suggest if there's no special, so I'll put it to the vote now: accepting this information. First we do it, then we go to the Commission's conclusion, put it to a vote, who's against, he'll be against, who's in, he'll be in. And then, after that, the conclusions we have on this report, first the Commission and then Mrs. Majkić, who proposed hers. So, first, we declare ourselves about receiving information about the security situation. You can vote! I find that with nine votes "yes", four votes "against" the supremacy majority was won but because of the lack of entity majority, the information was not received. I now put this Joint Commission to the vote. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2245	If you... vote and determine this result, isn't it necessary by the Rules of Procedure now that second vote to be seen...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2246	Yeah, well, you're right. Actually, yes, you're right, you have to go. I must, fully accept, know and chair make a mistake even though it is visible that there are two-thirds... but here. So now I have to put that second part of the vote against acceptance. Wait a minute. The formulation must be: who's against it. Then these people must be in.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2247	The Rules of Procedure provided for this category of knowledge-receiving. [[no microphone turned on]] Basically, that's why I'm talking to my colleagues... The hives, because only in the meaning that we read it, nothing else. So,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2248	We didn't adopt her, but here, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2249	And she doesn't even need to be adopted. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2250	No, please, then, as it insists, it's true, in order to make a definitive decision, it wasn't necessary here, it has to be approached by a new vote and it's now a practical entity vote, only this entity votes since it has, right? I call on MPs from the RS, no matter what nation they belong to, to plead, because who, now just a formulation, means essentially how to formulate it. If I say who's against it, then those who are against it must vote yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2251	Chairman, we all vote with what in this second vote... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2252	Not to be against more than two-thirds.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2253	From both entities against, so you...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2254	And let me ask, then I ask again, who's in favour, so those who are against the vote against and I see that two-thirds are against it, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2255	No, let us all vote again and you will determine if two-thirds of the RS entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2256	All right, all right. Here's the wording of the question. It's gotta be who's against it.? There must be a formulation, a formulation must be who's against it, because it's been raised green before and it's known that those who lift green – they're against it. hajati on, give me the Rules of Procedure. There's no consent.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2257	If the College fails to reach agreement, the decision shall be taken by the majority of the total number of delegates. This means that you should allow us all to vote, who are present, on the condition that the votes against do not contain two-thirds or more of the delegates elected from each entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2258	It's all clear. It's already gone, but let's do it again. So we're re-accessing the statement of this law in the second round. 72 Prepare, one moment, prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! I realise that in this vote we have five in the RS order, five MPs who voted "against" and more than two-thirds is "against". Therefore, information was not received. Coming through, please, so... [[Common discussion]] I voted to take it to the knowledge, because I think it's... But here, prepare to vote on these conclusions of the Joint Commission. You can vote. So what do I do, I have to put this conclusion to the Joint Commission, no matter what this information is. Well, every single thing, I do. Thank you very much. I find that with 11 votes "yes", there are no votes "against", there are no "abstained" adopted conclusions proposed by the Joint Commission. I have a proposal for a conclusion by Mrs Majkić, who asks the House of People to ask the Ministry of Security to draw up new information on the state of security for 2007 within 30 days with an analysis of the state of security of the proposal for measures, and to submit it to the Parliamentary Assembly for consideration. Prepare to vote! You can vote. I find that this conclusion has received 10 votes "for", "against" were three, given the entity's vote, there are more than one-third, there is a necessary entity majority. Conclusion adopted. That's how I'd exhaust everything on this agenda point. Moving to the 11th agenda: Ad. 11. BiH Prosecutor's Office Report
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2261	So, I've really examined this material that the D.A. delivered to us, but I wanted to say a few words about some dilemmas, because these are dilemmas that are almost five years old, practically when the prosecution is formed. The issues most often raised in public when it comes to the work of this institution are: is the prosecution ready to carry out its duties effectively and whether the funds planned by the BiH institutions are sufficient to carry out their mission and, three, how much should additional resources be allocated to make the prosecution's work more effective, i.e. what are the additional measures for effective work of the Prosecutor's Office? We don't have those answers. So we couldn't get these answers from this material, even though I am fully aware of all the complexity in the work of this institution. However, I believe that after five years of setting up the Prosecutor's Office should already be ready and able to fulfil all the tasks set out in their jurisdiction. However, it is not and the prosecution will still have to work on fulfilling its mission and, in addition, I would like to comment on the two strategic objectives set out in your material and to get an answer to them. To the strategic objective of 2nd, stated in the prosecution, the prosecution will use consistent and uncompromising access to criminal prosecution and the processing of all crimes in its jurisdiction, especially in the area of the processing of war crimes, and the crimes of organised crime, economic crime and corruption. For a long, fourth year we have been living in expectation of realizing two of these key strategic goals and in... Each year, the BiH Institutions Audit Office at the address of the BiH Prosecutor's Office has provided a bunch of audit reports and so on for years. Reports have seen a large number of acts... that could be said to be classified as part of the prosecution's interest, so let's suspect it's a crime. Although we know that the audit and the reports are not forensic reports and that the prosecution cannot immediately work on them, we, however, and by respecting the independence of the prosecution's functions, we still cannot accept that we have never received the prosecution's feedback so far whether any case has been prosecuted by audit reports, nor a proposal and suggestions on what to do with the audit reports so that they are more acceptable to the defence and the prosecution. This is how every year a bunch of audit reports are required to come to Parliament, the competent parliamentary commission and Parliament itself adopts these reports, makes proposals and recommendations in line with the audit findings and everything remains at it. I was honestly surprised by the recent entry of SIPA into BHRT. I guess that was on the D.A.'s order, and I guess we'll see how soon that case ends, and that's one, say, from the light points of the audit. The second strategic objective, namely the 3rd strategic objective, is to build public trust in the Prosecutor's Office and other judicial institutions in BiH, including building trust and understanding of the public in the way judicial and police bodies work, and to develop the sense of BiH's citizens that judicial institutions in their service in the role of protecting their rights and seeing and applying the law in a fair, impartial and professional manner. You see, I come from the RS and among the members of my people there is a strong perception that the prosecution... 74
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2262	Keep it down!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2263	...that the Prosecutor's Office and other BiH judicial institutions, when it comes to the processing of war crimes, are almost exclusively working on the processing of representatives of the Serb people. I believe that anyone who has committed a crime is responsible and should answer, but we also know that crimes are committed on all three sides and cannot accept that they are only Srbin and that only they should be prosecuted and that is why my people's representatives believe that in the work of the Prosecutor's Office, when it comes to the processing of war crimes, justice is lacking, impartiality as the key principles of justice. So these are some of my views on your report. I expect that the Prosecutor's Office will meet or achieve the strategic objectives set out and that both I and my people in the coming period will follow all the events in which this is being achieved. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2264	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At first, I'm going to say that I can't accept this report that I have here in front of me for two reasons. The report states that at least 13,000 people who have committed war crimes have been reported so far. That's the information we have in this report, in this report that we've considered just a moment ago, it says it's 10,000, some other reports by the state authorities are talking about 16,000 figures. Indeed, huge and large differences in the reports of state authorities whose reports should be approximately accurate or approximately equal. I'm absolutely up for it, I'll say right away, that all faces are responsible for their actions, or the misdemeanors they've done. However, in the RS, there seems to be one public opinion crystallized, and it was mentioned earlier by my distinguished colleague, that this BiH Prosecution is punishing itself alone. Such an impression can be obtained when an analysis of the accused and confirmed charges is carried out, so that it can create the impression that the bad guys are on one side, and the crime is, we all know, on all sides and these proceedings must be conducted against everyone, not just a large number of people from one nation. I, Mr. Chairman, will propose one conclusion, which is: - The home of the people asks the BiH Prosecutor's Office to urgently adopt strategies and criteria in priorities in the processing of certain war crimes cases. In the case of 75 determinations of these criteria, the time of the execution of the offence, the method of execution, the closure of the collection centres, etc. must be taken into account, inter alia. And the second reason I objected to this report is the second section, which is the Department of Combating Organized Crime. It seems to me that this department, so far, although it has been pompously announced, has not given the expected results, that there have been many stories, and very little work, and I think that the special prosecutor's office in Banja Luka has had far more interoperability in its work than this department, although it is something quite different. That's it. Mr. Chairman, I will forward this conclusion to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2266	Okay. Is there any more interest in the debate? Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2267	Here, Chairman, I'll take a moment. I would be really happy if all the prosecutors in both the Federation and the RS, in the Federation, had 10 cantonal prosecutors in the RS 5 district prosecutors. BiH has never had fewer prosecutors. Never. Because with the last reform, the number has been drastically reduced, that all these prosecutors are working as the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I, from this report, may think that this prosecution only prosecutes Srbin for war crimes and they can interpret it and present it here,...in this public debate, how they want to use this and this data the way they want it, but I only want to point things out here. ......... The report is being touched and the work of prosecutors in the Federation and RS. This BiH Prosecution means it is not responsible for the prosecutions neither in the Federation nor in the RS, because after 2003 we do not have a single prosecutor's organisation, as we had previously in our system. However, this report refers to the number of cases in both the Federation and RS. I would ask you to look at how many unsolved cases there are on these cantonal prosecutions, against how many persons are... and please, Mrs. Majkić, don't make faces, I listen to you and you keep making faces when I speak and please behave correctly.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2268	/not included microvon/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2269	You didn't talk to him. You're telling the chairman that there's been a lot of debate. I listened to you. So, to look at the figures relating to the number of pending cases in the Federation and the RS prosecutors and how many persons have not been processed in 2007 and how many persons have remained unencumbered by the indictments or other orders to conduct an investigation or other acts that the prosecution has been able to take against such persons. 76 I just want to point out to you the latest report by the European Commission: that BiH has about 3 million pending cases in courts and prosecutors. This Parliament is responsible for the implementation of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. Article 6 speaks of rights, justice of the trial. You know that one of the elements is the right to a fair trial, a trial within a reasonable period of time. BiH already has processes – I have recently done a parallel study – it has processes before the European Court of Human Rights for a trial that takes longer than it should. So, the process has been going on for a very long time, and BiH will have to pay out of this budget damage claims to the people against whom the court proceedings are being conducted for a very long time. And I think it's a matter of both this House and the Department of Justice and the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council to consider this situation. So, to seriously tackle the number of unprocessed cases, especially in these lower prosecutions and courts, and to propose measures to overcome this state of affairs to this Parliament means to propose measures to overcome this situation, to propose measures to speed up judicial proceedings and how to resolve unresolved cases that have almost 3 million and we are under the hit of both the Council of Europe and the European Commission in view of such a large number of pending cases.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2270	Thank you very much. Mr. Jović. Otherwise I have to tell you, we'll be working till 20.15, and further work won't make sense, so we'll make a deal. Here you go, Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2271	: Well, if they don't process who killed the Hrvat, at least I can speak to the Hrvat. Do you agree? I didn't mean to answer and the proposal of this all but I must say and irritated or encouraged by these debates being held. A few months ago in Belgrade, in fact, when Mrs Del Ponte left, she had a speech in the Serbian Parliament about forty representatives of NATO countries, with our colleagues present. Since on several occasions I went to The Hague and received here what the representatives of the Hague Court, which Mrs. Del Ponte directly, let three or four of our meetings persistently pointed out that the Hague court would close the story, but that none, listen to this, no man will answer for the crimes against the Hrvat. I can't call this woman "ma'am," I told the Belgrade hottie that studying the justice and justice of the Hague court as a political court would be on the pages of those monstrosity times that we remember from the immediate or the past there. At the end of the meeting, she approached and said, "It was the least that could cost the Hrvat." So I'm going to say here, I said at a meeting when we were with the BiH Public Prosecutor, I repeated this story, and it seems to me that this court can be closed so that no one is responsible for the crimes against the Hrvat who, by the way, have no media, so we can't tell what happened to us. Others are not interested in it, but we say it in closed circles and there is general dissatisfaction and uncertainty of life in this country. Because it's practically said this is a land of injustice that had to be brought out for what happened that 43% of the Hrvat in this country were missing. I keep saying this: thousands, thousands of houses destroyed, tens of thousands killed, 72 camps recorded by the Hague court over the Croats. But it's not in the judiciary, I don't know what else to do, so this sounds like a procession to me or not these processed, gentlemen, here's the thing about Hrvat, it seems to me, we don't have 77 things to say. Why? Because no matter what happens now after the closure of the International Court book, the Hrvat in BiH as if they did not participate in the... assessment of the criminals who committed crimes against the Hrvat. And vice versa, the criminal proceedings in only one municipality and Hrvat are the majority, which held one-third of the territory in the war, and two-thirds of the BiH Army. 14 men in The Hague, 9 of them after five years, six men in The Hague, were returned. We've had a man now: for eight years he's waited, every other month it's been public, the trial begins, but eight years. We've got people who've been in solitary prison for a year in Zenica, a year man! What are human rights? Only because he's threatened because he's a Hrvat that he'll be killed. I really don't know what else to do, but here's what I'd do, let me let you know how much I knew.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2272	Thank you very much. I suggest we make a statement. We can't procedurally, we don't have a quorum. Otherwise, I suggest that after this statement, we interrupt the session or continue it. I mean no, there's still a lot of points, and I'd love to because of these colleagues who have been with us all day, but it's not realistic that you can do more after this work from two to here, so we can end up if, if, but, please, we're having discussions quite seriously, which means that the commissions are serious. [[Common discussion]] Okay, we can, please, approach the plea. I remind you again that the House of Representatives has received this information and I am voting to receive this information from the House of Nations, that the ustavnopravni House has received this information and that it has no conclusions. Right? Please prepare for a plea. You can vote! Thank you. I find that with two, four, six, eight votes "for", four votes "against", but without an adequate entity majority. Is there a need to vote again when it is clear that there are more than two thirds that are "against"? Do you want to vote again? Let's vote again. Since he has no consent, he's going to the second vote. Come on, who is it, please get back to me on this information. I find that five votes are "against" meaning that the House of Nations has not received this information. We move on to a statement on this conclusion proposed by the delegate Šaraba, who says: - The home of the people asks the BiH Prosecutor's Office to urgently adopt a strategy, criteria in the process and priorities in the processing of war crimes cases. When establishing 78 criteria, among other things, should be taken into account... the time of the execution of crimes, the manner of execution, the closure of the collection centres etc. Prepare to make a statement about this. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2275	I didn't mean to answer, but since I see that this conclusion is being prepared, here I am going to introduce myself first. I am Lokmić Misirača Misiraca, deputy chief prosecutor in the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Given that the conclusion is being drawn, I would like to inform you that the strategy is the one discussed in the construction phase, that it is done by the BiH Ministry of Justice and that one of the colleagues from the prosecution, the prosecutor, is a member of the working group. So, I don't want to affect your vote on this strategy, I'm just giving information that the BiH Ministry of Justice is preparing this strategy and that one of the prosecutors is a member of the task force. Now that I'm out, I'd like to say a few words. I have written down everything this distinguished meeting has said, I will indeed convey it to the BiH Prosecutors' College of Prosecutors, but here I can, since of course I didn't know what it was going to be about, let me tell you; this is, in some ways, my personal position, and I think, in most cases, what I'm going to say is shared and fellow prosecutors. As for the assessment, is the BiH Prosecutor's Office ready to perform its post? and as pointed out as a strategic goal and an improvement of that readiness, I believe, and also my colleagues think they share an opinion, that the people who work in the BiH Prosecutor's Office are professionals and are ready to do the job. They have certificates from whoever's in charge of assessing them, which is the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. If this meeting does not feel so, it can indeed address the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and ask to examine the professionality, readiness of the BiH Prosecutors' Office and prosecutors to perform this post. As for the audit reports, I asked at the House of Representatives for audit reports to be submitted to the State Agency for Investigation and Protection. Audit reports are based on INTOSAI rules. These are accounting-booking rules, they do not constitute the basis for prosecution and cannot point to the existence of a criminal offence. I would agree with Mrs. Čolo. It is a new law that the prosecution reveals and prosecutes the perpetrators of crimes, but when it is found that the crime has been committed. No Ravisor report speaks of it. So, according to the prosecutor's office, we've been on several meetings with auditors and the RS and the Federation and this audit institution at the state level talking about it. So, it would be good to have these reports delivered to the State Investigation and Protection Agency to see if any crimes have been committed or not. Audit reports – as far as I read the Audit Law and how much we have considered on our college – have actually been established to improve the work of the ministries. These audit reports are not just about criminal responsibility. There is a disciplinary responsibility, a violation and there are some other responsibilities, which are also found in this audit report. The D.A.'s only in charge of criminal responsibility. It's about the audit reports. 79 I want to say one more thing, and I think I'm obliged to say that about the War Crimes Department. The War Crimes Department is divided into six teams and these six teams are territorially covering BiH, which means everything that happened in BiH is being investigated. My fellow prosecutors are really professionals and I think they'll share my opinion of them is a crime and a crime is a crime. I don't really have a national statistics or how much has been prosecuted, I mean, and we don't have that statistical data, but here's if some priority criteria are established in this strategy, of course, that the prosecution, since it's going to be a state strategy, the prosecution will respect that as it respects all the laws, because actually the prosecution is the body that applies the laws that bring this distinguished assembly and the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2276	Thank you very much. Mr. Šarab, we still have this conclusion that we have to. Please, I know you're all tired, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2277	Just for a minute, Mr. Chairman. After... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2278	We're not talking about this conclusion that Šaraba suggested. Here you go, Mr. Šarab.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2279	So, just after this information I received from the D.A.'s lady, I would change this conclusion in this section that says that the House of Peoples is asking the Ministry of Justice. So, not from the D.A.'s office, but from the Department of Justice to bring the most urgent strategy in that section.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2280	Thank you very much. I think the debate on this issue will show us that we might have a lot of problems later on with similar information. So I'm going to suggest in agreement with Mr Filipović that we interrupt the session today, we'll get to the bottom of your conclusion, we interrupt the session because there's still a lot of information and I know that a good part of them can re-prove discussions, discussions, we won't end it. We'll interrupt, and we'll continue it before the next session. But, because he can't, I can see by it all that anxiety is over. Before the next session starts that day when it's scheduled, so please, we haven't finished, we still have a statement on this conclusion. There are 80 before that Mr. Jović and Mrs. Čolo. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2281	I'm just thinking. We have a few points ahead of us: giving consent to contracts.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2282	I won't skip the agenda without this information, I can't. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2283	I'm afraid if someone... we'll make a mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2284	We won't. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2285	Good.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2286	Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2287	I suggest...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2288	I thank Mr. Kozarić and the others and the D.A. and the others, but understand, I mean, I'm afraid it might. Here you go. Mrs. Čolo. Just a little attention, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2289	I suggest that Mr. Šaraba give up the second part of the conclusion, so we can vote for him. In which you said you had to establish the criteria between which you would... Please give up. The Ministry knows what the criteria are.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-05-15-0.u2290	We've received information that Mr. Šaraba has accepted. The conclusion, therefore, is: 'The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly asks the Ministry of Security to bring the most urgently...... strategies and criteria in priorities in the processing of war crimes cases'. Prepare to vote! You can vote. Thank you. I find this conclusion has received unanimous support. 81 We interrupt the session. It will be continued... on the day of the next 18th session but, before we move on, this one will go. The seat was suspended at 8:15 p.m.
